we are all very pleased in this chamber that the court has released him and has made it clear that in russia too, access to environmental information is a constitutional right.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the guidelines for the programmes for the period 2000-06 (com (1999) 344 - c5-0122/1999 - 1999/2127 (cos)).
it will therefore naturally surprise no one that the new regulation on the structural funds is already being preceded by calls for greater efficiency and greater concentration of resources in favour of european objectives such as employment and sustainable development, to name but a few.
i would like to make a small comment on this for the attention of the government of my country, which is totally ignorant of the community's horizontal policy on environmental protection and thought it could do without implementing the ffhg directive.
this means that sustainability in transport policy must be taken into account as much as the share of women in the aid granted or the fact that each programme must provide for the overall amount of grants, in order to allow for sustainable urban development as well as real model projects in rural areas.
like the rapporteur, i believe that the commission document contains unfortunately too few recommendations to the member states on administrative simplification and i would like to emphasize requirements such as the following: the negotiations must focus on promoting a favourable environment for labour-intensive small and mediumsized enterprises, on setting clear objectives for alternative sources of finance - including regulations for venture capital and private finance - on start-up aid - including in the field of new technologies and for investments in innovative fields.
the aid for small and mediumsized enterprises in the research and development sector and for training in regional and environmental policy is certainly possible and must be feasible.
these are aid for research and development, aid for environmental protection, social aid to encourage the closure of steelworks and aid to finance the permanent closure of noncompetitive undertakings.
competition is certainly the foundation of the social market economy and the history of european competition policy is one of success, particularly in the energy and telecommunications sectors, which has clearly led to lower prices and improved services.
it is part of the balance - embodied in the concept of european integration - between solidarity between member states, cooperation between member states to provide a better and more efficient environment for citizens and the economy, and competition, which must create the incentives to improve european competitiveness and the european union's ability to face the future.
we need competition to reduce unemployment as much as possible, to improve health care, to establish social justice and high social standards and we also need - the above competition criteria affect the national economy - competitive enterprises: products of the highest quality, equal market access for all enterprises, products which respect the environment.
first of all, let me say that we are dealing with an ecological catastrophe which also has economic repercussions and endangers lives.
we'll be discussing environmental standards more often.
and with that, i'm speaking to many of you who, until now, have not been at the forefront of the environmental movement.
we should make it clear to malta that if it wants to become a member of this community, it must by then have applied a standard of flag state registration and control which really meets our requirements, because the environment is a common and indivisible asset.
valuable experience has been gained, but it has also been recognized that the most modern technology cannot be sufficient on its own to overcome such ecological disasters.
i have been fighting in this parliament for ten years for the establishment of an environmental coastguard service at european level.
the european union urgently needs rules on environmental liability.
we must hold those responsible for all types of damage to our environment accountable.
in 1994, when i joined the legal affairs committee of this parliament, i became rapporteur for environmental liability.
it has already been reported; there are signs, not evidence, but clear signs, that the increase in storms worldwide is linked to climate catastrophe.
but most are fairly convinced that if we continue on the current path of greenhouse gas emissions, these storms will weigh more heavily on us in the century that has just begun.
i think we should remember a proposal made by one of our former colleagues, tom spencer, in this house: these storms should now be named not by any masculine or feminine patronymic but by the names of those responsible for the greenhouse effect - he was referring to the oil companies at the time.
however, we should certainly exclude shell and bp, which have adopted a different policy and are not only focusing on the sale of fossil fuels which are harmful to the environment but are also investing in future-oriented forms of energy.
i do not agree with those who say that the greenhouse effect is responsible for this storm, but it is relatively certain that if we do not change our course quickly, we must fear more disasters.
security considerations prevented tajikistan from benefiting fully from the tacis programme, but a rehabilitation programme of €7.2 million was in place in 1998 and 1999. in addition to national programmes, the european union has supported important regional actions in the energy, transport and environment sectors.
on the other hand, as regards the competence of your colleague mr nielson, i have some questions about environmental cooperation, particularly on the question of water and the problem of cotton monocultures which cause a serious drought.
i had hoped that in the areas in which i am active in this parliament, namely the environment, consumer protection and health, your proposals would have been equally ambitious.
let me add something: you have told us that you want to link environmental policy and spatial planning.
finally, i would ask you to ensure that, in relation to environmental protection policy and its integration into other policy areas, commitments are made and we are given the guarantee that they will be respected.
this is not always the case with the environment.
and this is where the portuguese presidency can play a decisive role in transport, security and environment policy on european territory.
the current fragmentation of air traffic is causing delays, risks for passengers and an unnecessary burden on the environment.
the second point on which you can make progress in the field of environment, economy and transport is the detailed formulation of a common position on the railway issue.
- the next item is the report (a5-0102/1999) by mr turmes, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the establishment of performance requirements for ballasts for fluorescent lighting (com (99) 296 - c5-0010/1999 - 1999/0127 (cod)).
- (es) mr president, i should first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr turmes, on his excellent report and to thank all the speakers and the house for the great support they have shown for this proposal which, in the commission's view, can make a significant contribution to increasing energy efficiency and which sets the objective of saving 20% of the electricity consumed by the tertiary sector.
as regards the proposed amendments, i am pleased to announce, ladies and gentlemen, that the commission can accept all those tabled by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, with the exception of amendments nos 1, 17, 19 and 20 concerning the introduction of the third level of efficiency automatically.
it is clear that man is powerless against natural climate change.
but greenhouse gases are also involved.
the subject is a hot and highly explosive one, especially as we are about to reform the common fisheries policy in 2002. fundamentally, policy must ensure that all interests are duly taken into account and, above all, that a sustainable use of fisheries resources takes place.
we should soon be developing initiatives together again to stabilise the political environment, to support ngos and also to ensure the presence of the european union where it is needed.
to do this, i think we must also have the courage to amend article 4 of the ec treaty, which defines the union, in the classic neoliberal sense, as an open market economy with free competition, and article 105 of the ec treaty, because the european central bank must finally respect the task assigned to it by the treaty, which is to promote, through its monetary policy, sustainable growth and employment.
we are dealing here with the conclusion of a conciliation procedure on energy sector measures for the period 1998-2002. in this connection, altener deals with the important field of renewable energy sources.
it should create the conditions for the establishment of an action plan in this area and, in particular, provide an additional incentive for private and public investment in the production and use of energy from renewable sources.
the stubborn resistance of the member states in the council to this renewable energy programme and its proper funding is astonishing.
however, unless member states make more efforts, it does not appear possible to achieve the community target of producing 15% of primary energy demand from renewable energy sources by 2010. this ensures the continuation of an important community environmental and economic policy programme which contributes to the limitation of co2 emissions, the increase in the share of renewable energy in the energy balance, the reduction of our dependence on energy imports, security of supply and local and regional cohesion and development.
on 9 december the conciliation committee approved the final text of the programme, thus paving the way for the future promotion of studies and actions in this field aimed at exploiting the potential of renewable energies.
furthermore, the continuation of the alterner programme ensures that pilot actions for the creation and development of infrastructure, knowledge transfer and targeted actions to facilitate the penetration of renewable energies can be encouraged and carried out.
this is particularly feasible in the field of geothermal energy, wind energy, for smaller hydroelectric power stations, for the passive and active use of solar energy in buildings and for the use of biomass.
in considering these areas, we can see how necessary and important it is to continue to provide a reasonable framework of support at european level in the field of alternative energy sources.
mr langen stressed that a number of points and demands put forward by parliament had been taken up on the substance and that, as regards the main dispute between us and the council, namely the financial envelope for this multiannual programme to promote renewable energy sources, we had managed to reach - as has already been said - almost halfway with the council.
the share of renewable energy sources in energy consumption is expected to double to at least 12% in the next few years.
as the only community programme with the exclusive objective of promoting renewable energy sources, the alterner programme now has a truly essential role to play in this respect.
these include the deepening of the exchange of information and experience between the actors in the renewable energy sector, the development of local and regional energy agencies, the establishment of new networks and the promotion of existing networks.
i believe, however, that the new measures in altener ii aimed at facilitating the penetration of renewable energies and at implementing, supporting and monitoring the community strategy and the community action plan are particularly important.
it provides for the promotion of renewable energy sources in all key areas.
in this respect, the altener programme can provide important new incentives for investment, facilitate it and help us to achieve our objective of protecting the environment, the economy and creating jobs.
but in any case, the fact that it is relatively small does not mean that it no longer has the important symbolic value that the fact that there is a willingness throughout the community to support such actions contributes to the fact that we are actually keeping our kyoto commitments and, moreover, that we are achieving the diversification of our energy sources, the security of our supply and, in the case of save, that we are moving towards less consumption, greater efficiency in the use of energy, thus contributing to the achievement of the objectives set.
in addition, in relation to these programmes, namely the save programme, increased efficiency and savings, and the altener programme, renewable energies, there is a very great technological challenge to be met, which from an economic point of view can give rise to important opportunities for industry and also for job creation in our countries and, therefore, in the union as a whole.
member countries ensure that there are suitable storage places for drying vehicles, which for example treat 32 million litres of waste oils, extract brake fluids, etc.
because i would ask you not to forget that, as far as the mobility of a vehicle is concerned, 80% of the constraints imposed on the environment result from driving, 1% from recovery and 19% from the construction of the vehicle.
percentages are therefore not the only parameter for environmental sustainability but one of many.
but percentages should not be an end in themselves; we need to understand that it's important to have a global view of the environmental impact of cars.
this is the first real environmental progress because it leads to a big reduction in co2 emissions, and if i understand the kyoto protocol correctly, this is the essential element.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the single market.
- (de) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if you look at the leaflets that have been distributed in recent weeks, you might think that we are discussing the ultimate ecological disaster or the death of the automobile industry in europe.
it is an ecological advance for europe and we can be proud of it if we incorporate it into legislation and implement it.
these are distortions of competition which have nothing to do with environmental protection and which only affect the investment capacity and jobs of those who make cars in europe.
i am in favour of strict environmental requirements: you know this from the car-oil programme and the debate on the exhaust gas thresholds.
are we committed to future-oriented environmental and consumer protection, or does parliament accept, as the florenz, lange and other amendments suggest, to become the valet of the german car industry?
the credibility of parliament, one of the pioneers of environmental protection, is at stake.
it would be more than scandalous if the ep were to reverse what the governments of the 14 member states and the european commission have proposed on producer responsibility and environmental protection.
vote for environmental and consumer protection and for innovation in the automotive and recycling sectors.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, everyone agrees that we must think about how to deal with end-of-life vehicles in europe, but in this case the council has not set an example of a sound european environmental policy.
firstly, mr trittin, the minister for the environment, has not conducted sufficient consultation within his cabinet; the federal chancellor, mr schröder, then intervened in the proceedings like an elephant in a china shop, without knowing the facts.
many of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and the amendments proposed by our group on article 5 on costs also benefit small and mediumsized enterprises.
the common position is not very bright either in terms of environmental policy.
the netherlands offers an exemplary model whereby cars are treated as the directive requires and the question of whether it is up to the buyer of a new vehicle or the manufacturers to pay for vehicles currently in circulation has nothing, strictly nothing to do with the environment; it's all about competition.
in the interests of the people who build cars in europe, i want us to avoid any imbalance in competition and instead, in the interests of protecting the environment, to ensure that the last owner gets free - financed by a fund - and, of course, that the manufacturer is responsible for new vehicles because he will then be responsible for building recyclable vehicles.
our committee believes that the economic and social regeneration of urban areas must go hand in hand with the establishment of a climate of tolerance towards minorities, so that measures to combat racism and xenophobia are an integral part of the programmes to be financed under urban.
first, environmental considerations are essential to ensure sustainable urban development and should therefore be the general condition for project financing.
the commission can therefore only approve the member states' proposals, provided they meet the following conditions: first, integration work through sectoral and geographical development partnerships, while taking into account the guidelines on employment policy; secondly, systematic integration of the actors concerned, namely local, regional and national authorities, training centres, universities, ngos, social partners and the private sector, with the aim of a sustainable partnership; thirdly, the guarantee of the clear innovation of the methods and models.
i am thinking of enlargement, the new justice and home affairs sector, health and environmental problems.
to this end, the commissioner responsible for the environment will present in the coming days specific plans to control this serious problem.
the environment now needs to be improved.
the sinking of the erika and the poisoning of the danube prove the urgency of action at european level to protect the environment.
it is about the social and ecological orientation of the market, the guarantee of the currency, the guarantee of citizens' rights at home and the defence of common interests vis-à-vis the outside world.
this is justified from an economic and environmental point of view.
the citizens do not understand that we are liberalizing air transport but that we are keeping 15 different sectors in the skies which are controlled at national level, which are economically disadvantageous for airlines and which pollute the environment.
you say that environmental issues must be integrated into all other policy areas.
you have not integrated environmental policy into enlargement, although it is bound to become one of the main problems for the enlargement question.
first, if an additive consists of or contains genetically modified organisms, it can only be authorised if it does not present any risk to human health or the environment.
i am firmly convinced that the best way to protect the health of european consumers in the ecological chain is to produce food and feed locally, for the region.
the committee on which i speak, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, decided in december that we could not give an opinion - on the assumption that the chairman of the committee on agriculture would produce a very good report.
even if this parliament has a new rules of procedure - and it is quite possible that, given the great ambition of the chairman of the committee on agriculture, more and more problems of legislative competence may arise between the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment - one thing will always be very clear to me in such conflicts: the cohesion of this parliament is decisive and the legal basis of a case is decisive in my view.
(applause) i would like to thank
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
my task as the author of the opinion of the committee on the environment is very simple.
i can agree with the rapporteur and say that the committee on the environment has asked the committee on agriculture and rural development to approve the commission's proposal.
we have been working on this for ten years and this in-depth approach was only made possible by a hearing which the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy organised and conducted in 1994. since then and until today's second reading, many of the people involved in the european parliament, the european commission and the council of ministers have worked hard.
we have reduced the 243 amendments from the committee on the environment to 77, but 30 have been added to them.
- (de) ladies and gentlemen, as has been said on several occasions, the proposal for a directive is indeed a historic opportunity to simplify and improve the plethora and veritable mosaic of eu regulations and directives and thus achieve a high level of environmental protection in europe.
we know that the commission's proposal does not go far enough; the same applies, unfortunately, to the environment committee's proposal.
all the rest would be ineffective and would not help to prevent ecological disasters like the one we are currently experiencing in romania and hungary from happening here too.
it is also important to strengthen the polluter pays principle, because prices must tell the environmental truth.
- (de) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if we take the principle of sustainability seriously, a principle which is also laid down in the amsterdam treaty, our long-term objective can only be zero emissions in our waters.
here, however, the council refuses to increase the life budget by ridiculous amounts compared with the overall budget, in an area where, in short, our sustainable development is at stake, in a longer term perspective.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - (de) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a sustainable social protection system in which men and women are covered on an equal footing, according to their particular situation, is essential for social cohesion and for the stability of our society.
the orientation we have taken in this discussion and our participation in it has been essentially to take advantage of a certain climate of easing of tensions.
this climate was born of the conviction, which we all seem to share, that it is necessary to continue negotiating and that the continuation of the negotiations and their maintaining pace are also in themselves a building block of hope for the conclusion of a final solution.
the fight against poverty and support for sustainable economic, social and cultural development are important objectives for building democratic societies in acp countries that respect human rights.
b5-0164/2000 by mr leinen, on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists, on behalf of the eldr, on behalf of the european democratic group, on behalf of the eldr, on behalf of the eldr, on behalf of the european democratic group, on behalf of the eldr, on behalf of the european democratic group, on behalf of the european democratic group, on behalf of the european people's party, on behalf of the european democratic group, on behalf of the european democratic group, on behalf of the european democratic group, on behalf of the european democratic group, on behalf of the european people's party, on behalf of the european democratic group, on behalf of the european democratic group, on behalf of the european democratic group, on behalf of the european people's party, on behalf of the european democratic group, on behalf of the european democratic group, on behalf of the european people's party, on behalf of the european democratic group, on behalf of the european democratic group, on behalf of the european democratic group, on behalf of the european people's party, on behalf of the european democratic group, on behalf of the european democratic group, on behalf of the european democratic group, on behalf of the european democratic group, on behalf of the european democratic group, on the environment, on the danube, on the environmental disaster in the danube, on the danube, on the danube, on the danube, on the danube, on the danube, on the danube, on the danube, on the danube, on the danube, on the danube, on the
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a major environmental disaster has recently hit the tisza and the danube.
the environmental disaster is serious, but the lies and silence of the responsible company, politicians and romanian media are even more so.
the large cyanide-filled reservoir is covered with a simple protective film, which falls far short of the environmental standards in europe and other parts of the world.
on the other hand, there are major gaps in the environmental protection legislation of an applicant country.
secondly, help in drafting new environmental laws and standards.
thirdly, a system of environmental liability.
this case proves that environmental protection is an integral part of the community acquis and is one of the conditions for accession to the european union.
(applause) i would like to thank
commission - allow me to share fully and unreservedly the concern of members, particularly as a former minister for the environment.
but according to initial reports, the poisoning of the lepos, the tisza, the somme and the danube is a real environmental disaster.
in a matter of days, an entire ecosystem was destroyed.
some environmentalists have compared the environmental consequences of this disaster, at least in terms of damage to the environment, to those of chernobyl.
the polluter pays principle is a cornerstone of the european union's environmental policy.
the international convention for the protection and sustainable use of the danube reflects this and should be applied in this particular case.
let us hope that it will not be just a waste of paper.
i have never understood why some member states have boycotted the philoxenia programme, although this initiative promotes the unity of tourism, the environment and culture.
employment sector winners include tourism workers, marketing and it experts, environmental consultants and managers of target applicant groups.
european policy has liberalised monopoly markets - energy, telecommunications and air navigation - and the consumer has always been the focus.
i think there is an umbilical cord between the disregard for human rights, the disregard for respect for individual freedom, the disregard for all the usual rules of good governance, tyranny and environmental degradation.
we're talking about the complexities of our ecosystem.
but there is an equally important ecosystem of values and political institutions that are absolutely essential if we are to improve the lives of people in countries like mozambique and improve the lives of our balkan neighbors as well.
we must think about what we are going to do with the stockpiles of antipersonnel mines in ukraine, in moldova, the ecological impact of the processing of these stocks, its financial impact, its political impact.
but there are still many shortcomings in the postal sector and, in the energy sector too, there is still much to be done to dismantle monopolies.
all in all, the global economic environment and economic conditions are favourable.
finally, we must resolve to coordinate things in such a way as to create real synergies which actually enable sustainable, high-level and longer-term growth.
in this respect, actions such as providing internet access in every school or sustainable skills are a sensible approach that opponents of public spending programmes must also embrace in order to be able to shape the future and full employment in the european union.
more flexible labour markets, new technologies, the conquest of niches and a more favourable environment for the creation of innovative and creative enterprises are key to the european economy.
the aim was to discuss the future possibilities of a european sustainable fisheries policy in terms of production, trade, marketing and several other areas and possibly to change its content.
the report, which i approve, also allows us to conclude that the commission is still a long way from its plan to develop a sustainable fisheries policy.
i can say that our marine environment is unique.
it is interesting to note that on this occasion the ministers for the environment and fisheries worked together for the first time on a future maritime programme 'coasts'.
the creation of a community network of protected areas, called natura 2000, to restore the north sea ecosystem and - this is a proposal i am making - integrated management of coastal areas are also part of this.
the objective must be the full integration of fisheries and environmental policies into eu policy, and that before the next millennium, please.
i therefore call on all actors to take account of the other causes of stock reduction, whether pollution, climate change, industrial activities and maritime traffic, etc.
europe has suffered another environmental tragedy off its coast, the sinking of the erika off brittany.
the weakening of the marine environment is mainly due to a combination of the factors mentioned and insufficient control measures at european level.
if we want to have a strong fisheries sector, we need stocks to fish and a perfect environment for fish to reproduce.
the eu must create the conditions for a balance between the environment and all other interests.
it is a mistake to ignore the technical and environmental realities.
these examples show that it is easy to discuss fisheries and the environment from a theoretical point of view.
but it is much more difficult to come up with constructive measures based on the principle of sustainable exploitation of stocks.
commission (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think one thing must be clear: it is the duty of our common fisheries policy to guarantee sustainable fisheries.
the maintenance of the marine ecosystem is as much in the interest of fisheries management as it is in the interest of environmental protection.
however, sustainability is not, in my view, a principle that should be based solely on the environmental aspect.
it is equally important that the concept of sustainability includes economic and social aspects.
if we want to ensure the economic and ecological sustainability of european fisheries, we certainly have a lot of work to do.
this would help to ensure sustainable fishing in the long term and would provide fishermen with better forecasts and greater planning certainty.
as regards the pollution of the west coast of france by the erika disaster, we know the heavy damage caused by this disaster, which was aggravated by the fact that a strong storm was blowing over the region at the same time.
this pollution has also caused further damage to the fishing industry, particularly to nets.
the economic and ecological consequences of the sinking of the oil tanker erika are so great that we are rightly looking at this problem for the second time in a few weeks in this house.
for the safety and preventive protection of europe's coasts and for the sustainability of fisheries as a recognized economic factor, we need a coastal environment police and a marine data network to ensure effective collaboration between member states, as we suggested yesterday.
has industrialization, atomic energy, biotechnology brought more justice so far?
however, they alone will not be sufficient to provide the necessary impetus for growth to reach a high and sustainable level with a positive impact on employment.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0051/2000) by mr wijkman, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the common position of the council (c5-0013/2000 - 1999/0020 (cod)) with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on measures to promote the full integration of the environmental dimension in the development process of developing countries.
- (de) mr president, this is a particularly important regulation in a context where we can no longer say 'we are destroying the environment' - we have done this for a long time - but where we now almost have to say 'the environment is destroying us'!
in the industrialized countries, important measures are being taken to conserve and protect the environment.
however, in developing countries, there is still a need for intensive development of appropriate policies, strategies and projects to combat further destruction and to preserve the environment.
in that country, oil extraction is accompanied by corresponding environmental damage.
the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading (a5-0048/2000) by mr fernández martín, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the common position of the council (c5-0014/2000 - 1999/0015 (cod)) with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on measures to promote the conservation and sustainable management of tropical forests and other forests in developing countries.
it is therefore all the more important for us that the local population concerned and local groups are involved from the planning and definition stage of the projects, in order to guarantee the ecological, social and cultural sustainability of the projects we want to finance.
if the damage to forests continues, the local people will be the first to suffer, and then all of us on the whole globe, because the dramatic changes in climate can already be seen.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the forests are protected, and that the forests are protected in a way that is compatible with the environment.
for these and other reasons, european citizens rightly expect the community to support actions for the conservation and sustainable management of tropical forests.
we have just been talking about the environment regulation and the comments i made then on a number of horizontal problems are, to a large extent, also applicable to the forestry regulation.
in addition, the objective of this amendment, which is to avoid projects having negative social, cultural, economic or environmental effects, is addressed in article 4 (5) on impact assessments.
(laughter) the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading (a5-0043/2000) by mr bouwman, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive on port reception facilities for ship-generated waste and cargo residues (11195/1/1999 - c5-0251/1999 - 1998/0249 (cod)).
first, each european port must have adequate port reception facilities for ship-generated waste if it does not already have such facilities.
secondly, all ships, regardless of flag, must deposit their waste.
we want to achieve together a system which will prevent economic incentives from leading to the dumping of waste at sea.
it shows that when a large part of the costs of landfilling are covered by general port charges, there is no incentive to discharge waste at sea.
the ship that discharges the waste must bear additional costs.
it provides an economic reason for ships not to dump waste at sea but to deposit it in appropriate port reception facilities.
i think that in the interests of environmental protection and a sustainable and thriving tourism industry in many countries of our community, it is better to have an effective system.
at the same time, we know that ships contribute significantly to marine pollution through waste, cargo residues and spent oil.
i think we can agree that ships should be required to deposit their waste and cargo residues in ports.
for information only: we know that 70 000 m3 of waste is illegally dumped into the north sea alone every year.
on the other hand, we know that at most 5 to 10% of ships are currently following the legal route of depositing their waste in ports.
it is necessary to introduce a flat-rate waste landing fee for all vessels, whether or not they use the facilities.
this means that we must eliminate any economic reason for dumping waste at sea, which, as has already been explained here, has been made possible in the baltic sea by the helmkom agreement, thanks to the system without specific charges.
what works there must also work for the other european seas, because it is not just about the environment, it is about clean waters, it goes as far as tourism, and - which is crucial - in addition to the environmental issue, it is also about neutrality in terms of competition.
i think that for reasons of the environment and competition, and also because of what was decided two months ago in january, we must adopt these proposals tomorrow by a large majority as we have discussed them in committee.
as you know, the commission is very concerned about marine pollution.
i therefore believe that legislation such as that which this directive seeks to achieve covers several aspects of the delivery of waste in ports.
it requires all community ports to have adequate waste reception facilities and to ensure that waste management is planned and supervised by the national authorities.
it also requires ships to return all waste they have generated to port, unless they have sufficient storage capacity to allow them to reach the next stage, the next port.
it also requires ships to report the waste they are going to deliver before they enter port and to pay for the costs of the reception facilities.
such use requires maximum technical safety in the interests of road safety, environmental protection and, let us not forget, fair competition.
we have covered all the main issues and i would like to return to a few of them, such as the environment, health, energy, transport, consumer protection and the huge problem of justice.
as for the environment, we know that this is one of the most serious problems we have to face.
we must make a great effort because if we do not give our environmental policy a boost, it will be virtually impossible to climb back up the hill.
we have adopted a white paper on environmental responsibility and the strategy for achieving the kyoto targets on emission reductions.
we now have to work on the whole legal framework for the environment and genetically modified organisms.
i would like to mention as an example another chapter of our action plan: the question of fisheries and the use of natural resources, which is closely linked to the environmental problem.
we must restore this balance and protect the environment, but at the same time we must not forget those who live off fishing and are concentrated mainly in regions which are certainly not among the most favoured in the european economy.
the 2002 conference is our reference point for the environment, ten years after rio.
as far as energy is concerned, this is a particularly important issue today, because i believe that europe must play an increasingly important role in this field.
once enlargement is complete, we will be the world's largest energy consumer.
we will therefore have to present a document on the various sources of energy with a view to security of supply.
you say, for example, that you want to integrate environmental policy into all other areas.
so where is the question of integrating environmental policy into other sectors?
as always, environmental policy is seen as something that must be integrated, as an imposed exercise.
we need a very clear, concrete and detailed policy all the more; the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
it is designed to mark products and services which have a high degree of ecological friendliness, in order to respond in a way to the ever-increasing cross-border trade in goods.
on the other hand, it is a question of developing awareness in industry and among citizens, of recognising and creating ecological relationships.
on this point, we also foresee cost reductions for smes, companies in developing countries and companies concerned by other areas of european and international environmental protection legislation.
the ecolabel regulation provides a bridge between economic and ecological interests.
some of us want to impose strict environmental criteria on it, while others are more concerned with the marketing aspect of the label.
the quality of the environmental and consumer protection objectives of the eco-label could only be improved.
the recommendation for second reading in question is a very important piece of legislation for the environment, but also for the economy within the european union.
this is evident from the many letters we receive from environmental organisations but also from the economic sector, with the cement industry at the head of course, but also many other sectors, such as the wood processing industry, the paper industry, the metal processing industry, etc.
i think we should give importance to the arguments of both sides: both those made by environmental organisations and those made by the industrial sector, because the industry has not only argued in economic terms, but also in ecological terms.
after analysis, not all the amendment proposals - even if they are well-intentioned from an ecological point of view - contribute to an improvement of the present situation.
limiting co-incineration does not guarantee that our environmental expectations will be met.
if we place the wrong fence, we will not achieve the right environmental objective either.
i have, for example, tabled a proposal in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy on nox emissions from co-incineration, which is much more ambitious than the council's proposal.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the ecological disposal of waste and its use for energy purposes through new technologies are timely and appropriate objectives.
the waste incineration directive contains important references to the introduction of high environmental standards within the european union as a whole, standards which have already been in place for many years in some member states.
the purpose of this directive is to lay down in writing the emission limit values ensuring the sustainable and harmless incineration of hazardous and non-hazardous waste in incineration and co-incineration plants, incineration which therefore poses no risk to human health.
in practical terms, the proposed amendment no 11 would also mean that halogenated substances, such as pvc, which frequently appear in mixed municipal waste, would be excluded from incineration in incineration plants.
many companies depend on this waste management to be competitive and create jobs.
large sums of money have already been invested in energy-saving measures.
it goes without saying that, in relation to the strengthening and adoption of the ozone directive, we must strike a balance between the legitimate need for improved air quality and the possibilities for the european economy and society to adapt to it in a reasonable way in particularly affected regions.
that is why, unlike the committee on the environment, which is responsible for this matter, we have not adopted the commission's proposals, but have modified them.
we would like to propose here a programme that can be implemented in 30 years, which aims at the threshold of 120 g/m3 set by the who, but which specifies the number of days on which this value may be exceeded: 40 days in 2010, 20 days in 2020 - this value was proposed by the commission for 2010 - and no more exceeding this threshold from 2030. this is mainly a demand from the hottest regions of europe, regions which have to withstand particularly high external ozone concentrations: the coastal regions.
that is why we dare to put this proposal forward again as the proposal of our political group, the epp, even though it was rejected by a small majority in the committee on the environment.
it is also interesting to note that the commission assumes that energy consumption in the european union will increase by 8% over the next few years, that there is no change in combined energy sources and therefore no reduction in the proportion of fossil fuels used.
the house agreed that the consumption of fossil fuels should be reduced and energy saved.
if we fail to do so, it is a declaration of environmental bankruptcy.
if the commission's predictions on this basic assumption come true, then we will no longer need to talk about climate protection in this house.
we need to increase energy efficiency.
we need to improve energy efficiency.
we must promote renewable energy and also recognise that nuclear energy produces neither co2 nor so2, nor nh3, nor vocs, nor nox.
i would therefore like to express my disapproval very clearly of the fact that some member states are demanding exceptions to this directive in the event that they abandon nuclear energy.
this cannot be part of a collective responsibility for environmental protection.
let me begin by saying that the habitats directive is an important directive which is creating a new climate in europe for the protection of nature, the environment and birds.
apart from this general criticism of the wildlife and habitats directive, i see a particular problem in the link between eu structural and environmental protection policy.
what sanctions will the commission then impose if eu environmental legislation is not applied?
the commission's hesitation proves that it wanted to impose the sanction first on the country as a whole and then only on the region, as you, madam commissioner, had stated to the minister for the environment, mr trittin.
none of us wants to sit idle when it comes to protecting the environment.
political prisoners, the violation of the most basic rights of women, child soldiers, too many poor people living below the minimum required, economic exclusion, environmental destruction leading to the suppression of the livelihood of many people, massacres of civilians in armed conflicts are just some examples.
- (de) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank you for allowing us to vote on the resolution tabled by caroline jackson of the committee on the environment.
they believed that the eu was a partner that supported democracy, human rights and social and ecological development.
however, the wto has shown that such litigation regularly leads to the dismantling of environmental protection laws.
industrialization, atomic energy, and biotechnology have not brought well-being and freedom to all.
- (de) mr president, commissioner, the new information and communication technologies have in fact - to use a metaphor - provided us with new fuel for our economic engine and for the rehabilitation of our ecosystem.
firstly, article 6 of the amsterdam treaty clearly requires that the principle of sustainability be applied to all policy areas.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new directive on the protection of the environment in the community.
how can we create high-skilled jobs in a sustainable way?
- (de) it seems that even within the community institutions there is no lobby group for environmental protection in the eu.
the regulation also specifies that this ex ante assessment includes the assessment of the environmental situation, particularly in regions where intervention by the structural funds could have an impact.
by bowing to this, the commission has lost the confidence of many citizens who see sustainable development as an opportunity for the next generation.
i think that we as members of the council, the commission and parliament must, out of respect for the victims of crime, which is becoming more and more organised and has a growing influence on its environment, create the instruments necessary for an effective fight.
we are not talking about the environment - although i am happy to do so, as you know - but about health.
what we are talking about today has little to do with transport or environmental legislation; we're drafting legislation that's supposed to protect people.
we want to keep this in mind, notwithstanding the fact that we also want to integrate transport policy into other areas and, conversely, to integrate the environmental dimension into transport policy.
you have very rightly said that the americans are our friends but that we do not allow ourselves to be influenced when it comes to protecting our environment.
in addition, we continue to regard equal opportunities, equal treatment and environmental sustainability as a priority, and we want to see this embedded in the budget.
i have the impression that when the finance ministers hear about the revision of the interinstitutional agreement, they immediately think of waste and see red.
in this respect, i hope that, as part of the revision of the treaty, new rules will be drawn up for the court which will allow for efficient work and, in so doing, sustainable financing of staff management.
we ask for a sustainable funding opportunity for this dialogue and the ngos that participate in it to support their important role as advocates for the disadvantaged.
we need a significantly higher share of primary energy use.
we need it for climate reasons but also for industrial policy because we are about conquering a world market.
but let me say this: those of us who are still here tonight really do not need renewable energy, but energy that is absolutely inexhaustible.
it is true that renewable energy will need a stimulus from aid now and probably for a long time to come.
however, it is certainly not appropriate to give them the same aid as all other energy sources, as they contribute in very different ways to the energy mix, and it is not at all appropriate to link the aid granted to one to the duration of the others.
firstly, you should, in the directive whose draft we are awaiting, promote the use of all renewable energies and, if possible, propose a uniform support framework.
this must be a very clear message that we want to see sent to the markets, both by the competition authorities and by the energy division in the commission.
we have decided that the share of renewable energy should increase from 6% to 12%.
in the european union, 95% of renewable energy comes from biomass and hydropower.
a few brief remarks on renewable energy and its financing at national level.
the renewable energy sector is also constantly undergoing technical progress.
in the long run, this will not go unpunished either in terms of renewable energy or co2 policy.
i have repeatedly stressed that without sanctions this common energy policy - because that is what it is all about - will not work.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, environmental protection is a political issue of great importance, and rightly so.
however, the subject of renewable energy must be freed from the weight of ideology, illusions and also abuses.
the renewable energy report in question does exactly the opposite, which is why i rejected it.
what, for example, about the much-vaunted benefits of wind energy?
the energy needs of highly industrialized countries cannot be met by wind energy, as long as the energy balance is expressed as a percentage.
last year, germany produced 2 billion kilowatt hours of wind energy.
it is therefore clear that this is not a method for the future, and that is why we should put an end to this ecological and economic misguidance and take a new direction.
we need to create a climate where the victims of these horrific crimes feel supported and not where inaction and fear of painful revelations ultimately protect the perpetrators.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection therefore today tabled four amendments to the staes report.
the epp-ed therefore spoke in favour of amending article 9a of the directive on the organisation of official controls in the field of animal feed in the committee on the environment.
the common position provides sufficient safety for man and the environment.
however, if we look at the matter in detail, it turns out that any crossing of a genetically modified plant does not necessarily represent an environmental disaster.
we do not want a responsibility specific to genetic engineering, but a general environmental responsibility.
at her hearing in the european parliament, she promised us that she would present a white paper on environmental responsibility, and that is what she has done.
we too want general environmental responsibility, but we know that no such responsibility, no extended responsibility is foreseen for genetic engineering in the commission's proposal.
what will happen if environmental responsibility does not cover the field of genetic engineering adequately or, mrs wallström, if it covers only natura 2000 areas as you have done?
the last point is genetic pollution.
i hope that tomorrow's vote will be a clear signal in favour of protecting the environment and consumers and that tomorrow will not be a dark day for them.
commissioner, first question: if i understand you correctly, can you guarantee that you will provide for environmental liability with a duty to insure, yes or no?
now the committee on the environment has chosen 1 september 2001 and i think we can accept that date.
i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the committee on the environment and the rapporteur for the committee on agriculture for their work.
(applause) i would like to thank
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in particular, reference is made to the draft reform planned for 2002. the main concern is to protect and preserve this resource, which will have social, economic and ecological consequences.
you can see that fisheries is not an isolated problem but that it has an impact on the development, environmental and external relations sectors.
if i remember correctly, this common position was adopted in december 1999 under the finnish presidency, with the help of a green minister for the environment.
the political agreement was reached in june 1999, under the german presidency, also with a green minister for the environment.
that is why i wanted to ask again whether we are really voting on this common position, which all the green environment ministers have approved, or whether this is all just a misunderstanding?
it is frankly ridiculous to ask the commission, in a single recital, to present a draft directive on civil liability for damage resulting from environmental damage by the year 2001. we know that the white paper did not provide for any civil liability insurance and only covered natura 2000 areas.
the same is true of the question of genetic pollution: to simply demand that we consider the problem is really a joke; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact assessment is carried out in a timely manner.
the commitment of the countries of the region to carry out institutional reforms and to create an environment conducive to economic progress is a fundamental element of this pact.
however, the stability pact suffers not only from this, but also from a lack of credibility, a lack of credibility of the international organisations and the european union which, through confusion of powers, waste, mismanagement, convey notions that would be described as typically balkan if they did not take place here.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
immediately after the second reading, i started informal talks with the finnish presidency in order not to waste time and to allow a direct transition of the programme for the beginning of the new millennium.
volunteering in the field of environment or culture helps to know the european reality and to master other languages.
solidarity with the chechen people, who remain greatly threatened by genocide, because that is what it is all about, and energy interests.
fourthly, the culture and environment of tibet must be protected.
nature and the environment are polluted, damaged as never before.
however, we share the views expressed in the debate by those of you who have indicated that, in view of the positive developments in iran since the recent parliamentary elections, it would be appropriate to avoid, as far as possible, giving the impression of foreign interference which could be counterproductive and reverse the improvement we believe we are seeing in the internal and external political climate.
however, we also know that this can only have the desired effect if the receiving country has the necessary absorption capacity and resources to ensure the sustainability and durability of this system.
we must not waste any more time.
we have tried to limit the noise pollution suffered by the inhabitants.
that is why i urge that comprehensive solutions be sought which achieve both objectives: the maintenance of a competitive air transport sector in europe and the guarantee to our fellow citizens of adequate protection against noise pollution in the vicinity of airports.
firstly, according to the report, there is no uniform method for the assessment of noise pollution yet and secondly, there is no uniform method for monitoring emission data either.
i would like to stress once again that we are dealing with damage which will have a very long-lasting effect and which could have environmental consequences.
it is an ecological necessity that this should be done quickly and well, but above all in a sustainable way.
i also wonder whether the environmental damage caused by these projects is offset by the objectives they have achieved.
europe needs a significantly smarter and more sustainable transport policy, based on modern thinking that is concerned about the next generation and aware of the finite nature of resources.
the request for an eia (environmental impact assessment) for all projects was not met, there were only partial eias, which contradicts the directive concerned.
i think we really need to improve the transport of goods which has to go by rail and therefore be sustainable.
we need to undertake a review of this concept which combines mobility and sustainability.
the new rail links between the uk and ireland are also of great benefit to the environment and the region.
the brenner base tunnel is a project of exceptional size but also of exceptional environmental importance because the alps are not comparable with the dutch or german-frisonian lowlands.
the situation in the alpine environment is particularly difficult.
on the other hand, we must not neglect environmental conditions.
prohibitions are not the right method; we must create incentives, we must support airlines as they embark on the path of reducing emissions by offering a modern fleet of aircraft that use less kerosene and, ultimately, produce less noise pollution.
we must therefore move forward with practical solutions, because we cannot allow a repetition this summer of what happened last summer: airspace saturation; queues; the absurd and endless burning of kerosene in the air; in short, first-class pollution.
nowhere is it written that the proportion of the world's population living in an environment destroyed because natural disasters or conflicts make life impossible there may have nothing to eat.
the russian energy group, gasprom, stopped gas supplies because moldova could not pay its bills in german marks and us dollars.
in addition, assistance under the tacis programmes should be directed more towards vocational training, education and the improvement of very old infrastructure in the transport, communications and energy sectors.
the creation of businesses in the craft and service sectors presupposes the possibility of improving the competitive and investment environment, which in the long run can only be improved with the help of the european union.
our task is to create a concrete and reliable long-term framework - or to use a term from our definition of modern farming - of sustainable framework conditions and not to tighten the screws a little more.
of course we must now use up the budget and the money that has been fraudulently taken out must of course be repaid, but the general budget for this important and ecological crop must be increased; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quota system is not applied to the production of milk.
all groups of the population and all state agents must feel committed to this rule of law and no longer, as in the past, only to their own population group or even their personal environment, whose needs they must provide.
what about energy policy, which has been the subject of violent and regular disputes?
you reduce it by 8.2%, and you reduce environmental policy by 28.2%.
as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, i would like to give you a very brief assessment of the proposal.
you have put forward a proposal which is inspired by the proposal for a directive on the environment, which you have yet to adapt, but this proposal is not yet sufficient.
it is also necessary to strengthen - and we have tried to do so in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and in the committee on agriculture and rural development - the obligation of the member states to inform the commission, to transmit to the commission information and data relating to incidents on their territory, bse problems or cases of litigation.
we also expect the commission to present very quickly proposals on animal waste and animal meal in order to define safety keys that offer future prospects for a responsible recycling system and to guarantee preventive consumer protection.
i think that wisdom is very appropriate on certain occasions, because we have taken a new path with this co2 strategy for cars, which is based on confidence in the willingness of car manufacturers in europe, korea and japan to reduce the co2 emissions of their models through technical improvements, in this case to 140 g in 2008, which represents a reduction of some 25%.
we want a practical and statistically correct control instrument and i thank the rapporteur for his insistence on a rational control instrument for co2 emissions from vehicles in europe, one which can be applied in all member states and which clearly specifies which vehicles are allowed, where and by what means to produce co2.
these two factors, interoperability and liberalisation, are the key conditions for the sustainability of the railway in the internal market.
it is well known that the railway sector is of vital importance in the context of europe's future transport needs and the move towards a more sustainable system.
there is also some indication of how much of gdp investment should be and how soon, in order to achieve a sustainable recovery.
when it is explicitly stated that the objectives of the stability pact are now the guidelines of economic policy and that the commission even wants to go beyond them, then it is necessary that social, cultural and ecological requirements be openly sacrificed to them.
the fair distribution of labour, the creation of a modern tertiary sector for social, cultural and ecological services, the regionalization of economic circuits, demand policy or the social, educational and cultural content of a knowledge society are all ignored.
in the name of growth, the recitals even envisage ignoring the decisions taken in kyoto on climate.
but what we need most in the future is a joint report at the beginning of the year which is able to link sustainable growth, employment and social cohesion.
if we want to achieve sustainable economic growth of 3% or more, we must drastically increase investment, especially in environmentally sound areas.
it is then stated that sustainability should be guaranteed as regards the inflation rate.
the question of sustainability is again raised.
our colleague randzio-plath once again emphasized the sustainability of compliance with the convergence criteria.
if we look at europe as a whole, then we see that in all countries where socialist governments are in place or have just been established, sustainability problems arise.
we'll see if it's going to be sustainable.
as for whether sustainability is guaranteed, i have serious doubts on this point.
the question therefore arises whether the present monetary stability can also be guaranteed in the long term or, in other words, what about sustainability?
the ecb has also addressed the issue of sustainability.
as regards the new direction of radio spectrum policy, i think three priorities have been crystallised in the debate, which we also had in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
some examples have already been given: earth observation, telecommunications, environmental protection, security.
in the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities we have carried out a critical assessment of the 12 problem areas: poverty, education and training, health, violence, armed conflict, the economy, decision-making, institutional mechanisms, fundamental rights, the media, the environment and the little girl.
fourthly, as regards the size of the warnings, we consider that the decisions of the committee on the environment are lacking in any measure and we therefore reject them.
for more than four hundred years, the hook has been one of the least harmful forms of tobacco use - both to the environment and to health.
we therefore need clear and reasonable texts and laws which meet the objectives of the health authorities and at the same time create a stable environment.
the obligation to warn about secondhand smoke is an improvement by the committee on the environment.
the u.s. environmental protection agency has estimated that 5,000 people die each year from cancer caused by secondhand smoke.
the third point is undoubtedly the most controversial and i think the committee on the environment has advocated very strong changes to its proposal.
- (de) mr president, for many years now we have been receiving constant news reports about the depletion of the ozone layer, which is of vital importance to us.
while the ozone hole has initially spread far away in the southern hemisphere, we have also recently seen a change in the ozone layer over europe.
since 1976, the ozone layer over europe has been continuously reduced by a total of 15%.
since the 1980s, scientists have been able to identify the substances that have caused the ozone layer to decline and continue to do so.
it is estimated that each percent of ozone that is lost increases the amount of ultraviolet radiation reaching the earth by 2 percent and the risk of skin cancer.
if it is decided to ban the use of these substances on the basis of evidence of their ozone-depleting effects, i would have liked the council to take a more consistent approach to the transitional period and exemption, especially since studies have shown that environmentally friendly substitutes exist for all applications.
i think that the communiqués on the further deterioration of the ozone layer and the new scientific discoveries in the field of alternative substances will very soon show that the compromise reached does not go far enough.
the future will tell us, and i expect that we will be reviewing the proposed ban dates for partially halogenated hydrochlorofluorocarbons very soon and will be taking up the matter again in the european parliament for the sake of the environment and human health.
these are two important renewable plant raw materials with a considerable ecological and social impact.
but to justify the enormous military expenditure we use scenarios such as the war in kosovo or imaginary future crises, islamic fundamentalism, or even, as in the german defence guidelines, possible ecological threats.
the fact that most of the conflicts today are caused by internal conflicts shows that rich countries are not willing to do enough to ensure sustainable and socially balanced development in the regions in crisis.
apart from that, it would be a huge waste to shorten the sessions here for one day and then hold additional plenary sessions!
- i voted against a ban on the export of stronger cigarettes for the following reasons: the commission proposal provides for a ban on the export to third countries of cigarettes containing more than 10 milligrams of condensate, more than 1 milligram of nicotine and more than 10 milligrams of carbon monoxide.
i would like to return to two questions raised by the chairman of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
competition and the mutual opening of markets, freedom of establishment and provision of services, protection of intellectual property and partnership in the implementation of sustainable development are some examples.
our position is also based on the principle of free and fair world trade, characterized by the european model of a social and environmental market economy, which is already enshrined in its main lines in european legislation.
the cancellation of external debts and the establishment of ecologically and economically sustainable regional structures are therefore essential to us.
the union must also open its market to products from these countries, which must be assessed from an ecological and social point of view, because it does not help much to grant aid and, at the same time, to exclude countries from our markets.
i know for a fact that we cannot say peremptorily that the increase in greenhouse gases caused mitch.
all scientific groups agree that such disasters will increase enormously if industrial countries continue to emit as many greenhouse gases into the air.
- (de) mr president, i should like to continue on the subject raised by mr liese, namely climate change.
we are not far from suspecting that this is not a random repetition but an evolution due to man-made climate change.
that is why i hope that we can link these disasters to energy policy.
the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the new community rules on the protection of the environment.
with the prospect of an enlarged union of 28 or more, we can no longer afford not to use effectively the funds earmarked for european objectives such as employment, sustainable development, environmental protection or equal opportunities.
i expect the commission to stop acting as usual and to become the driving force behind sustainable development in europe.
the economic and social partners, associations, certain non-governmental organisations, particularly in the field of the environment and equal opportunities.
the same is true for the environment, in the context of the new programmes 2000-2006. let us be clear here too: it is not a question of making the structural funds, ladies and gentlemen, the instruments of other policies.
first of all, of course, there is the energy for democracy programme, under which cities run by a democratic opposition receive heating oil in winter.
without a climate of stability and security which also allows the return of the serbs from kosovo, there will be no real peace in kosovo.
for the first time, the parties did not waste their time in exchanging pleasantries.
european public opinion is extremely concerned about environmental problems.
for my part, i stand with the french presidency and i support what has been said, namely that we should make the protection and improvement of the environment one of our main priorities.
important decisions will have to be taken in this area at the sixth session of the united nations world conference on climate change in the hague in november.
the impact of our transport and energy policies on the environment, and in particular on climate change, will be the main topic of two documents that the commission intends to present to the council and parliament next autumn.
the first will be a green paper on the common transport policy and the second a strategy paper on the various sources of energy and on the security of energy supply.
citizens are particularly concerned about the disasters caused by oil pollution on their coasts.
we must ensure adequate protection of human health and the environment and, at the same time, enable society to benefit from the advances of modern biotechnology.
across europe, at all levels of society, citizens are demanding better social quality, better ethical quality and better environmental quality; and we need to listen to that request.
they provide the safeguards, the system of checks and balances, without which nothing sustainable can be built.
it is clear that this presence helped to calm tensions and to restore the climate as favourable as possible, in this delicate context, to the free expression of universal suffrage.
it must be made very clear to president mugabe that there must be an end to violence and terror and that such a climate cannot bring peace to this country.
a5-0180/00 by mr mombaur, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the second report from the commission to the council and the european parliament on the state of liberalisation of energy markets (com (99) 0198 - c0m (99) 0164 - c0m (99) 0612) - c0m (90) 297 - c5-0163/2000 - 2000/2097 (cos))
the rapporteur.
- (de) mr president, the gas and electricity market is one of the essential foundations of europe's competitiveness and environmental protection.
i do not deny that there have been some very positive developments in european energy policy.
but we modestly ignore the fact that the price of other energy sources has, for one, exploded.
on the whole, i think that some very serious problems and some damaging developments in eu energy policy are not being addressed.
i regret first of all the absence of a debate - this problem has just been raised - on the current and anything but liberal practice of massively subsidising nuclear and fossil energy sources in their most varied forms.
secondly, it is a question of extending the eu's internal electricity market directive to become, at eu level, a food directive that encourages green and decentralised energy production.
thirdly, the eu's promotion policy should also be radically reorganised and not favour the construction of high-voltage lines for centralised energy production but rather energy saving through renewable energy and a regionalisation of energy policy.
fourthly, i would like to avoid the eu-wide liberalisation that is taking place destroying municipal energy companies.
- (de) mr president, i should first like to express my thanks and appreciation to the rapporteur, mr peter mombaur, for this excellent report and, if we remember the speeches of our colleagues, we can really say that the liberalisation of energy markets has advanced more rapidly and more effectively than we had hoped during the previous parliamentary term.
thirdly, strict separation of energy production and grid management is essential.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the market is open to all types of electricity, including electricity from renewable sources.
i would add that the safety standards aspect has to be developed in the near future and that i will be launching a debate in parliament and in the council, not on the nuclear sector or the coal sector or renewable energy but on the security of energy supply in the union in general, in which we will look at the different sources of energy, where we will be asking the problems associated with each of them, because nothing is free, everything has a cost, some for and some against.
i think of water as a renewable energy, of course.
hydroelectricity is a renewable energy.
we believe that the development of renewable energy sources should be given maximum support.
the directive excludes hydroelectric power from receiving aid, but this does not mean that it is not renewable.
it must continue to be taken into account in the overall calculation of renewable energy.
- (de) mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on transport is proposing to the house that the rail transport market should finally be gradually opened up by 2010. only through such openness will we achieve our common objective of moving freight from road to rail and eventually achieving sustainable mobility in the european union.
i do not deny that the flexible regulation of access to the energy grid has led to some problems.
the eurosystem will continue to pursue this progressive strategy in order to maintain a stable price environment, which also helps to support economic growth and job creation in the euro area.
i share the analysis in your motion for a resolution that governments should take advantage of the favourable economic environment to intensify efforts to consolidate budgets and reduce public debt and to go beyond the objectives set in the stability programmes.
it is the guarantee that monetary policy will contribute fully to overall economic well-being while providing an environment in which the new economy, should it emerge, can flourish.
in addition, at the press conference held each month after the first meeting of the governing council, i present the ecb's assessment of the economic environment underpinning our monetary policy decisions.
the publication of the ecb's forecasts should not be seen as a panacea that will address all the communication challenges facing the ecb as a new institution in a new multilingual and multinational environment.
they swim, for example, in the greatest uncertainty and can quickly become obsolete if the external environment changes.
the content of all authorised measures shall be adapted in such a way that proof of origin of beef is considered as a guarantee for the application of the ecological control procedures and for the imposition of penalties where necessary.
this measure has more ecological and economic justification.
that is why i shall vote tomorrow, as i hope the majority of this house and the committee on the environment will do, in favour of abolishing the categories.
- the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading (a5-0165/2000) by mrs garcía-orcoyen tormo, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the council's common position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council allowing voluntary participation by organisations in a community environmental management and audit system (emas).
- (de) mr president, our experience so far of the community's environmental audit system has been very different from one country to another.
the aim of this revision is therefore to make the environmental audit system more attractive.
staff are increasingly involved in environmental protection, but external efficiency needs to be improved.
if we have dreams about protecting the environment, i am prepared to defend them, but then we need directives and regulations.
one point which seems to me important in making environmental auditing applicable is the frequency of validations.
it takes a company three quarters to prepare an environmental report.
the amendments we voted on in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection may be going too far.
- (de) mr president, i think that tomorrow's vote is really a test of whether we want to make emas an ecological modernisation or just a fraud on the label.
lemas is an important optional instrument for companies, but the link with environmental programmes is essential, because surveys in germany have shown that, for example, the emas organisations have not yet recognised the fight against the greenhouse effect as a crucial objective.
before going into the details of the various amendments, i would like to address three fundamental issues, namely the notion of best available technology, the relationship between participation in emas and the obligation to meet environmental legislation criteria, and the frequency with which the environmental statement will have to be validated.
however, the concept of best available technology, which is expressly defined in the directive on the harmonisation of preventive measures to limit pollution, applies only to industry.
they are not covered by the directive on the harmonization of pollution prevention and control measures.
as regards the amendments aimed at limiting the principle of best available technology to the scope of the directive on the harmonisation of pollution prevention and control measures, it should be stressed that emas is not responsible for playing the role of an alternative for monitoring the application of mandatory legislation.
we all agree that it is important for organisations to comply with the environmental laws to which they are subject.
it could be said that compliance with environmental legislation is a minimum requirement.
if the european parliament maintains its amendments to ensure compliance with environmental laws, the role of emas may change.
how often should the environmental statement be validated?
well, the environmental statement is the public result of the application of emas in any organisation.
the environmental statement must be reliable.
the commission cannot therefore approve amendments nos 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 19, 21, 23, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31, 33, first part, 34, 35, 37, 41, 42, 47, 48, 49 and 50. the additional environmental benefits of emas compared to iso 14001 are a key aspect of the proposal.
the commission cannot therefore support amendments nos 13, 30, second part, 36, 38 and 46. if these amendments were adopted, it would be more difficult to exercise a right of inspection, to monitor environmental missions and performance, because of the introduction of longer delays between audits.
the commission is convinced that the amendments tabled by the european parliament in these two readings have contributed to a large extent to this revision work and have enhanced the potential of emas to improve the efforts of economic actors in the field of the environment at the level of the union as a whole.
- the next item is the report (a5-0166/2000) by mrs breyer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide in ambient air.
this is the second directive in the line of the directive on the assessment and monitoring of ambient air quality, and the proposal is part of a package of measures on the fight against air pollution.
the most important aspect of this second daughter directive is that it provides for the first time a limit value for benzene and carbon monoxide in the european union.
the proposal also corresponds to what mrs schleicher suggested in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy at first reading, namely that justified one-off derogations can be made, not only for countries but also for certain regions, certain territories and that the 10 micrograms cannot be exceeded.
in the light of the enlargement to the east, it is also very important to show that our environmental policy is not a two-speed policy and that the member states to which the derogations apply must also prove that they are on track to meet the requirements themselves.
the committee on the environment has also tabled a number of amendments which should not be controversial, because they relate mainly to the obligation to inform.
we also clarified how information should be conveyed and highlighted a major problem, indoor pollution, which should be addressed in the european union's research programmes.
the main objective is to set limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide concentrations, in order to improve ambient air and to prevent harmful substances from affecting human health and the environment.
it is true that the main source of emissions of the two harmful substances, benzene and carbon monoxide, is road traffic.
other important sources include fuel distribution, oil refineries and the chemical industry for benzene, or all combustion processes for carbon monoxide.
this directive is a major step forward in the fight against the greenhouse effect and in the process of purifying ambient air.
our group has of course supported the amendments which stress the danger to certain groups of the population and which consider the proposed environmental protection measures as minimum conditions which can be extended.
- (sv) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection for their excellent work.
the limit values that have been set for benzene and carbon monoxide in air are based on the latest recommendations of the world health organisation and are intended to achieve a high level of protection for the health of the population throughout the union.
the possible adoption of this directive will put the union at the forefront of the international community with regard to the tolerated values of benzene and carbon monoxide.
as you may know, the commission has just adopted this week a new directive which will further improve access to environmental information.
amendment no 3, part 1, states that member states must make a special effort to inform those who are covered by a derogation of the time allowed to comply with the limit values for benzene emissions.
since indoor air pollution can cause serious health problems, the commission will take this into account in the review.
the commission considers that the conciliation procedure which this amendment might entail would have the effect of unnecessarily delaying the adoption of this important directive, which for the first time sets limit values for the content of benzene and carbon monoxide in air.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0164/2000) by mrs von jackson, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a recommendation of the european parliament and of the council laying down minimum criteria for environmental inspections in the member states.
commission - mr president, let me first of all thank the rapporteur, mrs jackson, and the committee on the environment for their work on this proposal on environmental inspections.
the poor application of environmental rules has nothing to do with the absence of such rules and guidelines.
the commission's 1996 communication on the implementation of community environmental legislation pointed to a disparity between the inspection systems of the various member states and recognised the need to ensure a minimum number of inspection missions.
- the next item is the report (a5-0152/2000) by mrs redondo jiménez, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eec) no 3528/86 on the protection of the community's forests against atmospheric pollution (com (1999) 379 - c5-0076/1999 - 1999/0159 (cod)).
commission - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the commission has tabled two proposals to amend the regulations on the protection of forests against air pollution and fires.
the increase in natural disasters is clearly related to the fact that we are increasingly demanding the global ecological and biosphere.
for example, the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) has reported that man's influence on the global climate is already being felt.
beyond its immediate environment, the french presidency will seek to develop political dialogue with the major regional groups.
it reflects our defensive external interests, issues such as drug trafficking, nuclear safety issues, environmental concerns and migration and last but not least relations with our near neighbours, including the whole process of enlargement, which in my view is the most important and challenging issue facing this generation of european politicians.
other examples are climate change, control of drug-trafficking, control of the other death industries, the creation of new civil structures including independent media and so on.
in the discussions we had in the g8 foreign ministers' meetings i was struck by the extent to which the foreign and security policy agenda is changing and bringing together disparate issues in which the community has almost unique competence, for example in the environmental field.
the security of the environment, the security of the individual and the security of human rights cannot be guaranteed by a single pillar.
it is not just a question of how much fish for how much money, but more broadly, in accordance with the precautionary principle, of achieving a sustainable use of fisheries resources.
the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the council's common position with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the assessment of the effects of certain plans and programmes on the environment (5685/1/2000 - c5-0180/2000 - 1996/0304 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs schörling).
this is a new instrument and is in line with article 6 of the treaty of amsterdam, the integration of environmental policies into other areas.
i therefore strongly support amendments nos 17 and 18 so that we can impose a little more binding post-examination environmental protection measures.
the common position makes a clear distinction between plans for which strategic environmental assessment is mandatory and those for which a screening is necessary.
firstly, there must be a balance between the plans for which this strategic environmental assessment is mandatory and those for which, however, a selection must be made.
secondly, the scope of the directive must in any case be sufficiently broad and consistently include those plans which have a significant impact on the environment.
the commission therefore enthusiastically supports some of the amendments of parliament which extend the scope of this directive and do so in a balanced way, such as amendment no 5 in its second and fifth parts, to which, in addition to the rapporteur, several speakers have referred, such as mrs gonzález, and in which it is proposed to include extractive activities as well, and amendment no 6. however, we understand that some amendments go too far and call for strategic environmental assessment for plans which are very likely to have no significant impact on the environment.
some amendments would narrow the scope, such as amendment no 3, which limits the scope to eu-funded plans, or amendments nos 11 and 31, which allow states to choose the level or levels of planning with which these strategic environmental studies will be carried out.
this would exclude a large number of plans with an impact on the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
i believe that the purpose of screening and scope definition is to determine quickly and effectively which plans and environmental problems are most relevant.
i do not think it is necessary to point out that this directive on strategic environmental assessment is a key instrument for integrating the environment into policies and for promoting sustainable development in the european union.
mr president, after careful consideration of all the amendments, i would say that the commission can accept amendments nos 1, 5 (in its second and fifth parts), 6, 12, 28 (in its first part) and 29. that amendments nos 9 (on the requirement to justify that strategic environmental assessment is not necessary), 10 (on the first and second parts), 15, 17, 18, 20, 23, 24 and 25 are acceptable in principle, but with some reworking of their wording.
however, the commission cannot accept amendments nos 2, 3, 4, 5 (in its first, third and fourth parts), 7, 8, 9 (in the part on the requirement to justify the need for a strategic environmental assessment), 10 (in its third part), 11, 13, 14, 16, 19, 21, 22, 26, 27, 28 (in its second part), 30 and 31.
thank you very much, commissioner.
the agenda calls for the report (a5-0213/00) by mr bouwman, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on port reception facilities for industrial waste and cargo residues (c5-0348/2000 - 1998/0249 (cod)).
we hope that, by applying the principle of these two obligations, this will reduce the illegal dumping of marine litter into the sea, thus strengthening the protection of the marine environment and also improving the competitive situation between ports.
the only way to protect the sea is to actually check that the waste has been disposed of.
firstly, it was said that all ports must have facilities for waste and cargo residues.
i also believe that marine pollution should no longer be treated as a crime of chivalry.
if the dangers of the free trade strategy are acknowledged but the strategy is adhered to, the social, ecological and cultural components of the programme will never do more than repair and mitigate the damage - whereas they should be the guiding principle of such agreements.
i wonder how europe intends to defend respect for human rights and individual freedom in the mediterranean partner countries if it does not even respect the rights of migrants, if it throws them into the illegal environment and if it wants to keep them away from europe at all costs, including murder.
the first examination in the environment committee showed that there was no consistency in content or concepts.
in june 1995, at the urging of our group, the european parliament's committee on the environment held a hearing of experts on the european union's water policy.
the commission proposal of december 1996, which was under great pressure to be adopted in due time, was supplemented in two stages in 1997 following the dispute between the environment committee and the commission.
these include the elimination of the fragmented existing eu water legislation, the coherence of the relevant water directives at eu level, the legally binding nature of the measures under article 4, the shortening of the timeframe for achieving the objectives of the directive, the satisfactory cost control also in line with ireland's, the introduction of the combined approach, namely the setting of limit values and quality objectives for pollution abatement, substantial improvements in groundwater protection requirements compared to the common position and finally the incorporation of the objective and definition of the ospar convention without a time limit.
our success together was only possible because of her incredible dedication and work with a high level of energy and time.
we cannot wait thirty years for the european court of justice to decide whether the environmental objectives are legally binding or non-binding.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
we must try to meet the requirements of ospar and avoid an incalculable risk to the environment and to health.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a good one.
important directives such as those on the protection of human nutrition, municipal waste water disposal, plant protection and nitrates are being revised and redefined in terms of both ecological and origin criteria.
the effort to keep our aquifers in the european union as clean as possible, or as unpolluted as possible, is a key effort if we are to ensure balanced development, sustainable development and a habitable europe for future generations.
i would like to ask the commission what is happening with the 1991 directive on the ecological quality of water, which has not yet been formally withdrawn by the european commission.
the commission has, i think, put forward a somewhat dirigiste proposal, with, in my view, outdated approaches to environmental policy.
let us remember that in all mobility, 80% of the pollution is caused by driving, 19% by building a car and only 1% by disposing of the car.
so we have to put the right priorities on this issue as well: so i think we've gotten off to a good start with emissions and fuel quality standards, and today we've concluded with the question: how do we deal with the issue of old cars?
but this parliament should also have had the courage to take a really bold decision in the sense of a really new car, a car which in the future will not weigh 1 500 kg but perhaps only 1 000 kg, and if you look at the 300 000 kg of life, these are the real environmental benefits you have with the car.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
the second important point - and this is not a question of cost and competition, we had a little bit of a fight and finally solved the problems in a very sensible way and created a compromise that is sustainable for all sides - is that we have stipulated in this directive that new cars must prove their recycling-friendliness in the type-test.
the compromise reached is a great success for environmental and consumer protection.
it is the first time that producer responsibility in the waste sector has been discussed at all, and it is welcome that producer responsibility is taking off quickly.
the compromise reached on heavy metals is also a giant step towards an ecological policy on the flow of materials.
i also hope that the rapporteur, mr florenz, will draw the lessons from the debate and that the electronic waste directive, which is also about producer responsibility, will really try to act in the interests of consumers and that we will not be pressured by individual industrial interests.
the epp group supports the initiative of the european commission and the vice-president responsible, mrs palacio, to reconcile the interests of citizens and businesses in mobility with the interests of the least possible environmental impact, also in air transport.
on the other hand, air transport has a negative impact on the environment through its emissions of exhaust gases and noise.
we must see to it that we reduce this environmental damage, but we should distinguish between damage to health at airports and damage to well-being.
it is clear that environmental concerns have not been sufficiently taken into account.
there are already tyres which are far below the values proposed in the common position, both in terms of rolling noise and in terms of the rolling resistance which is responsible for consumption and co2 emissions.
there are even tyres that have been awarded the blue angel, an environmental label, in the federal republic of germany because they are so exemplary in their quietness and fuel economy.
-the commission's communication entitled 'pricing as a policy instrument to promote the sustainable use of water resources' aims to achieve and harmonise the economic objectives set out in the water framework directive.
similarly, the integration of environmental and resource costs into the price of water is aimed at those member states which are still overusing and polluting their water resources, which is not the case in germany where enormous efforts have already been made.
the objectives set out in the framework directive in this respect cannot therefore be used to justify the introduction, for example in germany, of a national water or waste water tax.
- the proposal for a regulation (com (91) 0406 - c4-0414/91) by mr de la malène, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the common position established by the council (c4-0414/91) with a view to the adoption of a regulation on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (91) 0406 - c4-0414/91); the positive side of this resolution is that it somewhat contradicts the decision of the british parliament and underlines the determination of the european parliament to maintain its decision to ban human cloning (and, therefore, also not to financially support research in this field).
the kursk incident alone is symptomatic of the direct ecological and political impact of disasters in russia on our europe.
there is always talk of environmental sustainability.
it would be interesting to see how gordon asked adam how she felt about the environmental impact assessment.
the process of change and change in society, in the world of work and in the environment does not end after school or training, but continues and intensifies.
let us, for example, have a common energy policy.
you, mrs palacio, and we should demand that a common energy policy be included in the treaty.
this is a very short-sighted subject, because these young people are the ones who stand out more, mrs schroedter, but they live with their parents, they have a social environment.
as a result of the current global situation, the security of energy supply, including oil, has been added to the agenda.
in contrast to the last version, the importance of human rights and cooperation to safeguard the environment have been added, to give just two examples.
from the fight against money laundering to environmental commitment and confidence-building measures in security policy to commitment to food and water security, but also with the successes against organised crime and - commissioner, you are absolutely right - against trafficking in human beings, the sexual exploitation of women and the abuse of children.
we would save time, money and energy in the process if the council were to become convinced and accept that a common position is not the end of the decision-making process.
i would also like to thank my colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection for their cooperation.
they are the best in terms of road safety and environmental friendliness.
the right to fair pay is being sought in vain, although this is a right which has been recognized by all states in the social charter of 1961. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and consumer protection, no individual rights for citizens, and it is regrettable that the right to asylum has not been enshrined as an individual right for third country nationals.
it is true what mr barón crespo said: why waste time?
transitional periods are possible and necessary, for example, in the free movement of capital, in the free movement of workers, in the fulfilment of certain environmental standards requiring major investments and in a number of other points.
the lithuanian parliament adopted an energy strategy at the end of 1999 and in may this year the seimas adopted a law on the decommissioning of unit 1 in 2004. the decision on the closure of unit 2 is then expected to be taken in 2004. i am very grateful to mr verheugen for his clarifying remarks on the question of the closure of nuclear power stations.
as regards critical points, my report states that the european parliament stresses the need to ensure a high standard of safety in nuclear installations and to carry out the corresponding environmental impact assessments.
i am speaking on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy.
let me make one more comment on the energy sector, which has been mentioned earlier today.
efficiency improvements in energy production and distribution must be continued, while respecting environmental standards.
the whole european energy market will change with accession.
the energy mix is not the same.
the eu must continue to support them in a sustainable way and must not neglect its own role in structural change, including in the institutional field.
common environmental standards and social rules can only be enforced if there is full membership of these countries.
the commission has also been active in the field of the environment.
when setting maximum levels, we must bear in mind that nature has its own laws, that crops vary and that the farmer ultimately suffers damage due to environmental impacts that he cannot control.
i won't accept waste incinerators!
we have long been calling for a dioxin register in the european union, which would indicate where the pollution is occurring.
and of course, we have to look at where there are fields near highways where heavy metal pollution occurs.
i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs roth-behrendt, for her opinion, from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
we need more, and that is why both the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment have once again, in a sort of tibetan prayer mill, pointed out that we need a positive list.
we must have a clear, unambiguous positive list, and we have both stressed this again in the committee on agriculture and in the committee on the environment.
the agricultural sector is now a sector which relies to a large extent on a harmonized and constraining environment.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of proportionality to the application of the rules on the protection of the environment.
fortunately, the vast majority of children and young people are growing up in an environment that does not exhibit any of these problematic characteristics.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
that is why i also believe that this reconciliation can be sustainable, but the government, which has found a solution to the university issue and many other issues with great courage, needs visible signs of success and needs strong support, otherwise peace in the entire region is at risk.
chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
what i have said applies not only to energy policy but also to other areas as a whole.
mr monti, i would like to suggest that you make it clear earlier that the initial aid, which is currently being handled quite differently in the member states, for example in the field of renewable energy, will enjoy protection of confidence for the duration of its life, even if in the meantime - and i hope this will happen - the whole of the union will receive better support measures than before.
finally, some difficulties remain, notably on non-discrimination and the environment.
we can talk about spirit, about state of mind, we could also talk about the climate of biarritz.
it is certainly gratifying that biarritz recognised the need for policy coordination in the area of energy policy, which is so sensitive to citizens, the economy, growth and prosperity.
the package of measures proposed by the commission to improve energy efficiency and energy saving is therefore constructive, as are the investigations into the problems of cartels in the oil companies.
the important thing is to make progress on european energy taxation, which has been blocked by the unanimity principle.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
this reflection does not prevent me from saying at the outset that our duty here and now, for the success of the intergovernmental conference, is to concentrate all our energy and all our efforts, and we need to do so because we are far from the point, on the igc agenda as it stands, particularly as it is extended to enhanced cooperation.
the budget cannot be used to the detriment of other regions of the world in the long term, and this also requires that what commissioner patten has announced to us as his intention, namely that the funds should be spent more quickly, that the commission should also do this in 2001.
mr president, i would like to join mr pronk in asking you to give a critical view of the preliminary decisions of the committee on budgets on the deliberations of the special committees, in my case the preliminary decisions on environmental and health policies.
we believe that this is the case with the european environment agency in copenhagen.
in order to restore and strengthen consumer confidence, account should be taken of food safety and food safety provisions in the field of fertilisers, plant protection, medicines, environment and waste legislation.
the developed countries could make the greatest contribution by producing food in a sustainable and diversified way.
i think that the political environment in such regions can also be designed in a reasonable way to give such governments the political power to break out of this cycle, which means that they are supposedly trying to protect themselves, but ultimately they are harming their own people in the long term.
i can only encourage the commission to see this not only as a technical approach to help with financial resources, but also as a way of creating the political environment for improvement.
our priorities which have been drawn up, following close consultation with democratic leaders in belgrade, are to provide help, above all, with energy supplies as well as with medicines and possibly with food.
it is clear that serbia faces a formidably difficult winter, especially on the energy front.
on energy we are looking urgently to extend our energy for democracy programme across serbia.
we will operate mainly through the municipalities, as we did last year under our pioneering energy for democracy initiative.
the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy also believes that emissions trading is a sensible solution.
the key thing about this emissions trading is that in the future, it's not just electricity or gas that will have a price, but co2 as well.
it sounds so simple, but it's a total revolution of the energy industry, or the energy sector.
this has enormous implications and i am convinced that it can also help reduce emissions.
in other words, bypassing environmental policy, we will have a common energy policy.
in 2005 we could start this emissions trading within the european union.
climate change is not a marginal issue for eco-freaks, but one of the greatest challenges of our time.
almost all the scientists tell us that these storms and floods are going to increase dramatically unless we reduce greenhouse gases significantly.
so climate protection is also a requirement of economic reason.
so it really bothers me that in the face of this challenge, the climate change debate is too often about what we don't want, rather than what we really want.
many say that we do not want nuclear energy.
but i believe that every opportunity to reduce greenhouse gases must be taken.
and that is why i have tabled a motion on behalf of the epp group calling for a european climate tax that would cover all greenhouse gases and be emission neutral.
the epp group also takes the view that nuclear energy is indispensable for at least the next few decades in order to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty.
before you quit, you have to say how you want to reduce greenhouse gases.
commissioner, i have been following the climate debate in this house since 1995. what i have seen since 1995 is that parliament has made concessions here, always on the tactical basis that we want the country that emits the most co2 to be in the kyoto boat.
so we jumped on board and said we accept carbon trading.
commissioner, i have of course heard your speech on the eccp climate programme.
i would much rather fight with you for concrete measures, for example, to get into renewable energy.
i want to join you in fighting for a standard for low-energy homes.
is it the fish, the fisherman, environmental conditions or society?
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment.
all three forces must commit themselves to one idea, namely the idea of the sustainable management of a food source which is valuable and irreplaceable.
it is about young farmers and environmental measures.
we are giving 10 million more to young farmers and taking away the 10 million for environmental measures.
nevertheless, there is a coal compromise in germany which runs until 2005. i believe - and i hope the commission will be constructive in its approach to such solutions - that we will have a transitional arrangement for the three years between 2002 and 2005. however, i would like to make it clear that for the period after 2005, there can be no 10% energy threshold for the eu national states, which is exempt from any competition supervision by the european union.
this solution would damage the european union's competition policy and at the same time make energy more expensive, especially by promoting renewable energies, which would ultimately harm europe's location.
i would remind you of the standards for the shipping inspection organizations - i hope i am not making this a problem for the translators - and i would remind you of the proposal for a directive on environmental noise, which in fact intends to draw up noise maps for the whole of the european union.
the commission reiterated, on behalf of the community, its readiness to assist morocco in the development of the fisheries sector, but that the achievement of this objective should not lose sight of the european interests linked to the possibility of fishing in moroccan waters in a sustainable manner.
we believe it is of the utmost importance that community fishermen resume their activities at a level compatible with the obligation to ensure sustainable resources.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
i am thinking in particular of the charter for peace and stability, which has been the subject of very thorough discussion among the 27 partners, but whose adoption is likely to call for a calmed regional environment.
so morocco sent its ministers of foreign affairs and cooperation to new york on october 26 to be heard in private session by the security council after the polisario secretary general's hearing on october 19. the commission also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which was published in the official journal of the european communities.
they pledged to promote and protect fundamental human rights and uphold respect for democracy, the rule of law, equality, justice and concern for the environment.
the need for common efforts to implement the kyoto protocol was confirmed, a consumer-producer dialogue to stabilise world prices for oil was advocated as well as closer cooperation to develop energy saving technologies.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
in the interests of the environment, but also of fishermen, we must aim to achieve a sustainable management of fisheries resources.
given the importance of regional fisheries organisations for sustainable fisheries, i believe it is essential to give the eu a seat in each regional fisheries organisation so that we can finally all work together.
the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, which is consultative, takes a very different view from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, which is the lead committee.
we believe that a number of amendments to this draft directive are necessary, which the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has unfortunately not adopted.
important proposals, for example, on animal waste and on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, are currently before the council and parliament.
it is also foolhardy, as the alternative to these controls leads towards an outright ban on meat-and-bone meal with the attendant huge financial and environmental consequences.
moreover, there is currently a major proposal before parliament and the council for a regulation on animal waste.
this proposal provides the opportunity for putting in place a comprehensive framework to ensure that all the relevant issues relating to animal waste are addressed.
i leave it to others to make the economic and environmental case for its continued use.
parliament acknowledged that in its report on bse in 1997 and i quote: "the recycling of carcasses and slaughter waste by the production of meat-and-bone meal for animal feed offers the best alternative on economic, environmental and health policy grounds".
finally, madam president, i would add that the commission has recently presented a proposal to parliament under codecision for a regulation on animal waste.
this proposal aims at putting in place a community framework which will address all relevant issues governing the treatment of animal waste, especially its use in animal feed.
parliament itself now has its opportunity to shape decisively the future direction of policy towards waste at community level.
all options are open in this proposal on animal waste including a total ban, if thought necessary.
in the interest of a sustainable circular economy, it should continue to be possible to use tested animal material released for human consumption in the production of feed.
i think it is cynical, commissioner, when you say that this cannot happen for environmental reasons.
you can't seriously expect us to eat special waste so that the disposal problem is solved!
the report under discussion today is, as i have just said, about the promotion of electricity from renewable sources in the internal electricity market.
we are therefore in the first legislative procedure in the field of renewable energy.
the proposal for a directive is a logical consequence of the european union's strategy to double the share of renewable energy sources in energy consumption by 2010. the committee's report shows that we agree with the strategy set out in the draft, namely not to proceed with european harmonization of support systems but to leave it to the member states to orient the support system to national objectives.
it is about promoting renewable energy.
in reality, the only reason why subsidy schemes are necessary for the production of electricity from, for example, solar, wind and biomass is that we are still directly or indirectly subsidizing other forms of energy.
the promotion of renewable energy is therefore a compensation for the external costs of other sources of energy, a consideration of the positive environmental effects of this form of energy production and a compensation for existing distortions of competition.
as long as the internalization of the external costs of fossil and nuclear energy is not carried out, as long as there is a subsidization of other energy sources, compensation schemes for renewable energy are necessary.
the european union and all member states have made commitments in kyoto because of the dramatic nature of climate change.
renewable energy can undoubtedly make a significant contribution to achieving the binding greenhouse gas reduction targets set in kyoto.
we want to convince people in europe to switch to energy that nature provides every day, that does not cause environmental and climate damage, that makes a positive contribution to reducing co2.
so there should be no controversy about what we mean by renewable energy sources.
so, we don't want to have to seriously tell people in our regions that we are looking at household waste, which is a large proportion of plastic waste today, as a renewable energy source.
should we not also ask them to produce more and more of this waste so that we can be sure of reaching our goals?
i'm not against the incineration of waste.
you see, the draft report includes separate organic waste because it is part of it.
you see, untreated wood and cork waste is considered a renewable energy source.
even if hydropower is to be included in the support schemes only up to 10 megawatts, any hydropower is of course a renewable energy source and is taken into account in achieving the target.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste incineration system is not used for the production of waste.
the committee also agreed that the problem of grid connection and access to renewable energy sources was another important point.
the commission proposal to give priority to renewable energy access to the grid is not up for debate.
a very sharp rise in the price of oil, of course, puts us more sharply in front of the problems associated with our energy dependence on fossil energy sources.
the strategic objective of the directive is to create a stable framework within which electricity generated from renewable energy sources can be developed significantly within the european union in the medium term, green electricity, and facilitate its access to the internal electricity market.
as you know, the commission is planning to adopt shortly a green paper on the security of energy supply and the fulfilment of the kyoto objectives and commitments made by the european union.
the european union, which is the standard-bearer in the fight against climate change and the reduction of emissions, cannot be the first to fail to meet its own objectives and commitments.
we must discuss the role that the different sources of energy should play in that book.
first, the energy saving.
i would like to stress this - as some of the speakers have done - but i would also like to say that this is not a matter of opposing a particular source of energy or waging war against it for the benefit of another.
one of the key pillars for meeting kyoto and for the union's energy future is the development and increased use of renewable energies.
with today's document the commission wants to make it clear that the launch of renewable energy sources does not now have the same facilities as other types of energy sources, such as nuclear, coal or oil itself, to name but a few.
the aid to renewable energy is also justified by the fact that conventional energy does not pay for some of the external costs of its use in a significant way.
renewable energy is also a factor in the security of supply, because we have enormous production potential within the european union.
however, we all agree that we must accelerate and intensify the development of this type of energy in europe and that this requires efforts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in its proposal the commission is trying to maintain the best of both approaches in order to produce a balanced text, but i must also make it very clear that the priority objective now is the promotion of renewable energy, its development.
these are objectives which should not be forgotten, but they are not the primary objective of this initiative, which is primarily aimed at developing and increasing the use of renewable energies.
in line with amendment no 5, i am pleased to confirm that, given the importance of this issue, the commission is considering the possibility of presenting a new directive on biofuels generated from renewable energy sources, namely biomass, agricultural products, which will simplify some of the other problems we have raised.
when we start talking about targets for electricity generated from renewable energy sources we will first have to agree on what we mean by renewable energy sources.
this means that we can largely follow the definition put forward by the european parliament in its amendment no 27, but when we talk about the extension of the application of biomass - although, as proposed, it might perhaps be accepted - it can in no way be accepted in its concept of household waste.
that's not renewable energy for the most part.
as i said, biomass must not be abused in the case of uncontaminated wood and we support amendment no 24. the reference to waste without any other classification as a source of renewable energy - as i said a moment ago - is inappropriate and contrary to the policy of solid waste management.
the commission also considers that all electricity generated from renewable energy sources and used in hybrid plants should be considered green electricity and not only that used for reserve purposes.
when the report to be drawn up on the compliance and development of renewable energies in the various countries indicates that a country is clearly not meeting these objectives, proposals will be made to parliament and the council to correct this situation.
in this connection, we support amendments nos 36 and 56, as well as certain aspects of amendments nos 4, 15 and 62, which relate to the idea of internalising external costs and offsetting uncovered external costs in favour of renewable energy sources.
on the other hand, we could accept amendments nos 10 and 59, which specify that investment aid for large hydropower plants would only be possible if it contributes to improving the environment.
large hydropower plants are in principle largely profitable on their own and have very high environmental costs.
amendment no 53 would exclude all competitive forms of renewable energy from subsidies and other benefits, and the commission cannot accept it in its wording.
as regards the principles on which the future harmonised support system should be based, the commission can accept the parts of amendments nos 37 and 38 which stipulate that the system should take account of the environmental objectives of the treaty, the experience gained with support systems which have proved to be effective and positive, and geographical conditions.
as some of the honourable members have said, wind energy is very close to being competitive, but we must continue to give real support to the development of renewable energy.
from there, in due course, we will have to gradually incorporate the market aspects which, as i have said, constitute the second step, since the first is to have a sufficient amount of renewable energy.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs rothe, and all the honourable members for their work, and to stress that it is absolutely essential that we give a real boost to the use of renewable energy in the european union once and for all.
the responsibility for this lies with the conference of presidents and if we want to change this, we must ensure that a debate on renewable energy or on important women's issues does not take place at night, because as i have said, the council is never there at night.
i see in this, as your minister for mines and energy, mr antic, has so well said, the proof that serbia has friends in europe.
it is true that transparency and openness can help to prevent such phenomena as corruption and waste.
mr president, with the rothe report - or at least with the scheme of support for renewable energies described there - we are making serious energy policy mistakes in and for europe in the long term.
energy policy must be open to the future, sustainable and based on market economy principles.
the continuing subsidization of wind, biomass and solar energy is a mistake and a mere symbolism.
we must also create a peaceful environment for these people, and they must also be able to participate in the political responsibility of this country, and they must not be excluded.
the commission is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the effects of climate change, and that the commission has already taken action to combat the effects of the floods.
on the first point, i would like to point out that we attach great importance, as does parliament, to the problem of climate change and to the conference currently taking place in the hague.
we agree with some of the statements made above that in this way we will contribute to the protection of environmental integrity and the credibility of the environmental protocols, with a view to their ratification in 2002. we are aware that the global destabilisation of the climate caused by the accumulation of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere will be the most important challenge in the energy sector in europe.
the energy and transport sectors produce 85% of total greenhouse gas emissions in the union.
therefore, it is these industries that must make the greatest effort to reduce emissions.
on this basis, the commission will shortly propose two strategic documents: a set of policies and measures to respond to the kyoto commitments and to the transport and energy objectives.
the first will deal with the security of energy supply and the second with a revised common transport policy.
but apart from the environmental problems, i would also like to comment on what we can do at this time.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states, and has also been involved in the preparation of the report on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
we know that our co2 emissions are increasing and we have discussed this many times here.
the question is: do we even need a global agreement to start reducing emissions here?
i would remind the commission of its communication on emissions trading and the hague conference, which mentioned that it might present a directive imposing the quotas agreed between the environment ministers in 1998 and imposing penalties for infringements.
what is preventing us from starting emissions trading within the european union in 2005, when a number of countries have already started emissions trading within their national borders?
the nice european council will also address other important issues on which the french presidency has worked with all possible energy.
throughout the past winter, the commission has spent a lot of energy explaining why and with regard to which specific issues the initial agenda of the intergovernmental conference should be extended; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
this means that action to reduce arms exports to unstable regions must be the first objective that the council must address, that there must be a fair trade policy, that there must be aid for sustainable development and, above all, support for democratic forces in civil society.
the eu has only one problem, which is that it has not yet won public interest in such actions, although they are much more sustainable and much more effective.
to name just a few of the most pressing problems of our time: the oil crisis, climate change, the bse crisis.
the committee on the environment and the committee on transport acted wisely and courageously when it came to the first erika package, which was, however, in compliance with the emergency.
personal lives and the very existence of some companies are at stake, as well as the damage to the environment.
they may treat us rather badly in nice, but in the case of the european court of justice, to reverse everything we have done as a parliament, knowing that we will correct it again this week, would have saved a lot of resources and would have done a great deal to protect the environment by printing less paper.
i can concentrate on one essential point in my remarks on the budgetary approaches in the field of environmental, health and consumer protection policy.
in general, the budget allocated to protecting and preserving the environment is far too small.
this is particularly irritating in the context of the fact that environmental policy is a cross-cutting task, because environmental policy at any rate a successful one is only possible across borders.
i would like to make one comment: i am not the only one who has the impression that this situation gives me the impression that i am only on the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection to prevent the worst from happening in this regulatory frenzy and haste which has been imposed on us!
we must not lose ourselves in environmental policy in promoting small, spatially limited measures, however necessary they may be, or in the permanent uncritical financing of institutions whose results are essentially unrecognizable, as i believe is the case, for example, with the european environment agency in copenhagen.
what european environmental policy lacks is a scientifically based framework for action.
if russia does not change this situation quickly by creating the necessary legal and security framework and thus creating a more friendly investment climate, then despite the current high oil prices, there is little hope of a way out of the critical economic situation.
the energy community with russia can also be given a political dimension in the same way.
this means that we have a shared responsibility for peace in the caucasus, for the protection of the environment in russia and for the rights of indigenous peoples there.
transport, energy, the environment, homeland security are at the top of the list of possibilities.
the eu attaches great importance to environmental protection and nuclear safety in its policy towards russia.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also proposed that the directive be amended to include a reference to the principle of equal treatment for men and women.
universal service is the cornerstone of community policy in this area and everything we do is designed to create a proper climate for its improvement.
i would like to say that i agree with the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection on this point.
we are already seeing the problems of vat and energy tax.
it is extremely regrettable that to date no framework directive on the taxation of energy products has been adopted.
perhaps the first step should be to agree on a kind of code of conduct to contribute to energy saving and environmental protection through fiscal instruments.
it would therefore be very appropriate if the commission were to submit to us reports which also show the relationship between taxation and actual co2 avoidance and energy saving.
this is accompanied by an equally large increase in greenhouse gas emissions and noise.
the consumption of fossil fuels, and of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
in this context, it is regrettable to note that there is a problem with air traffic emissions, although the percentage is not that high, but it is growing very fast, and that is why it should not be underestimated.
i know from my party at home that they would be in favour of a european tax in principle, but i think it is time that we really got together and that we tried to get the greatest possible effect on the environment with the least possible distortion of competition for european industry.
the proposal for emissions-based take-off and landing charges should be examined, because it makes it possible to record american and japanese aircraft landing in amsterdam, london, paris or frankfurt, and therefore to have a greater effect on the environment and less distortion of competition.
a shipwreck which contaminated 400 km of french coast, with very serious consequences for the ecological environment, for the citizens who lived and had businesses in that area, whether they were oyster farmers, shellfishers, fishermen or simply citizens connected with the tourist sector.
for the first time there has been a growing awareness of the need to find european solutions to this type of marine pollution issue.
in addition to these first measures, the commission has just adopted on 6 december a second package which, in my view, will respond even more directly to the expectations of the population and which must also profoundly change the rules of the game in maritime transport, to the greater benefit of maritime safety and the protection of our coasts against the risks of pollution.
it is clear that port state control, however rigorously it is carried out, only partially protects states against the risks of accidents and pollution, in particular by ships in transit.
the final objective of this directive is to strengthen the management of emergency situations at sea by means of the obligation to designate port of refuge, the prohibition of going to sea during a severe storm and greater powers of intervention at sea by the coastal state in the event of a serious risk of pollution.
secondly, another element of this package is the improvement of the existing rules on liability and compensation for damage in the event of pollution by oil or its by-products.
it is enough to recall that the case of the erika oil spill has shown us the inadequacy and slowness of compensation, which is far from having been paid to the victims and those affected by this pollution when a year has already passed since the disaster.
if the imo does not take the necessary measures, the commission would submit to parliament and the council a proposal for a community system of liability and compensation in the event of oil pollution.
in addition, any person who has contributed by gross negligence to causing pollution will be subject to dissuasive sanctions, which will serve to encourage responsible behaviour by the maritime industry as a whole.
this is a matter of crucial importance, since it has asserted the european union's ability to impose its own requirements in the field of maritime safety and pollution prevention in an international environment which is generally unfavourable.
i would therefore urge parliament and its various committees - the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy and the committee on culture, education, the media and sport - to look very closely at the impact of this new form of cooperation between private and public actors on the safeguarding of cultural diversity in europe.
so subsidiary policies have to be developed very carefully and then, as a combined approach, at the same time, limit values for certain sources of pollution.
in this respect it is right, we need the framework directive, we need the combined approach, and that is why i think that many of the things that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has decided are right and good.
we should look at this very carefully and then take a combined approach at both levels, setting limits for each source of emissions and setting quality standards for emissions on the other side.
– mr president, i want to thank the rapporteur, mr lannoye, and the committee of the environment, public health and consumer policy for the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on food additives other than colours and sweeteners.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
the agenda calls for the report (a5-0350/2000) by mrs lienemann, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on a community framework for cooperation to promote sustainable development in urban areas.
this proposal on sustainable urban development has the potential of having a direct effect on the daily lives as many as 80% of the european population.
it will enable and encourage towns and cities throughout europe and beyond to come together and learn from each other's experiences, help them to tackle environmental problems and challenges and to work towards sustainability.
its innovative approach will involve cooperation with the city networks, member states, eu institutions, ngos and the business community, ensuring that the funds provided from the framework are targeted at those areas of sustainable development most in need of them.
rather, the framework is designed to facilitate the sharing of information and ideas about the best practice of sustainable urban development so that the solutions identified to problems in one city or town can be shared with the other cities and towns throughout europe and beyond.
the quality approach of the framework and its multiplier effects are such that despite the relatively small budget it is expected to have a real impact on the promotion of sustainable urban development in europe.
it is intended that the main partners in this framework should be the commission and networks of local authorities whose legal responsibility is to develop and implement policies of sustainable urban development.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0352/2000) by mrs patrie, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the commission communication on the application of the precautionary principle.
the principle and approach is often referred to at national, european and global level when questions related to human health and the environment are discussed.
we consider it as a general principle which should be taken into consideration in the fields of environmental protection and human, animal and plant health.
this entitles the community to prescribe the level of protection notably with regard to the environment and human, animal and plant health which it considers appropriate.
it will also raise the capacity of developing countries to ensure protection of the environment and human, animal and plant health.
many people are forced to leave to avoid greater evils or because they cannot bear the pressure of the intimidating environment.
but we are also convinced that eta is not an isolated phenomenon, and that its perpetuation is due to a political climate for which the nationalist authorities who have ruled the country for more than 20 years are partly responsible.
important experiences such as energy saving measures for small and mediumsized enterprises are being ignored.
the opinion we adopted unanimously in the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy was then on the second report.
we in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy have welcomed the fact that the european commission has taken initiatives to clarify the matter through a dispute settlement procedure in the wto.
but that does not change what i have made clear here earlier, namely that we must be careful even in the small things, that we must not forget the guiding culture of a social-ecological orientation in european agricultural policy and that we must always check whether the effects of the measures are in the right direction.