it stressed that sustainable development in this sector could only be guaranteed by a significant reduction in fishing fleets.
very briefly, it is about limiting man-made co2 emissions.
we know that as asia benefits from increased living standards, 1.4 billion chinese and 1 billion indians will start to consume more and more energy; this means that their energy consumption, which currently represents 10% of the eu's average energy consumption, will increase sharply as they require basic amenities such as hot water and perhaps even air conditioning, transport and the modernisation of their industries.
we made a commitment in rio to protect the climate.
we noted that electricity generation accounts for 30 percent of man-made co2 emissions.
and electricity accounts for 35% of all energy consumption in the eu.
if we can meet our targets, we will have saved, by 2020, 6 million tons of co2 emissions a year.
this proposal will also have considerable effects on the climate and the economy and, if we achieve the proposed objectives, our industry will have enough time to restructure.
we have come together around the compromise that has been drawn up to improve energy efficiency in a bid to protect the climate.
- (da) mr president, this directive is important in our efforts to prevent the accumulation of hazardous waste from end-of-life vehicles and it is also important in encouraging the recycling and recovery of materials from vehicles that have been disposed of.
i therefore believe that it is essential, in the interests of environmental protection, to apply the ban on the use of toxic heavy metals in full and not to restrict the responsibility of producers.
if we limit this responsibility, we will not encourage manufacturers to build and manufacture vehicles that produce less waste.
the common position, adopted by the commission and subsequently confirmed by the committee on the environment, but which was very difficult to accept by the council, meets environmental requirements in every respect, so i find it very strange and incomprehensible that members of the committee on the environment have tabled amendments to reduce environmental requirements and to reduce the liability of car manufacturers.
if these amendments are adopted, i believe that the credibility of the house on environmental matters will be seriously undermined.
the house has so far played a positive role as a catalyst for environmental protection, but the adoption of the amendments by mr florenz and mr lange would be a negative factor for environmental protection in europe.
on the other hand, if we mitigate the responsibility of producers in this case, this will have serious consequences in cases which we will examine later in other areas, for example with regard to the future directive on electronic and computer waste.
i therefore strongly recommend that members disregard their membership of either group and vote against all amendments to the common position which seek to weaken environmental standards and restrict manufacturers' liability.
- (da) we voted in favour of the report on the draft commission communication setting out guidelines for a community initiative on the economic and social regeneration of towns and suburbs in crisis to promote sustainable urban development (urban).
it is here and now that we decide how much eu member states will have to work effectively to make the aquatic environment cleaner in the years ahead.
as a parliament we must amend the council's common position in order to show the way forward towards a healthier environment.
if this directive is not amended, the consequences could be very serious and long-lasting for the environment and the quality of drinking water.
we must absolutely limit the total emissions of chemicals into our water areas.
i would ask the house to support amendment no 108, which seeks to replace the words 'pollution of water by various pollutants' with 'prevention of water pollution by continuous emission reduction'.
we cannot delay our action on behalf of the environment by an excessive search for detail; we must work to reduce the overall emissions of hazardous substances into nature.
the european environment ministers must remain true to their commitment to the ospar convention, which already defines substances dangerous to the environment.
this convention must be the guiding principle for our actions in favour of a healthier environment, which we and our successors deserve.
- (da) mr president, the aim of this directive should be to ensure joint protection by the member states of groundwater, surface water and drinking water and a level of protection that corresponds to existing environmental legislation within the eu.
this proposal contains a number of measures to strengthen the protection of the aquatic environment and which go beyond our current environmental objectives.
the paper proposes to achieve an end target for concentrations in the marine environment close to baseline values for natural substances and close to zero for man-made synthetic substances.
the adoption of this report will have serious consequences for european agriculture if the concentration of phosphorus and nitrogen, for example, cannot exceed the basic values for these substances in the aquatic environment and if a near-zero value is established for pesticides in the aquatic environment.
- (da) let me state first of all that the protection of the aquatic environment - whether surface or groundwater - is one of our main obligations.
this is to ensure sufficient water resources, but also and above all to prevent pollution of our water resources and thus ensure the availability of good quality drinking water for the future.
finally, i would say that i support the measures envisaged to strengthen payment arrangements and pricing, because they will encourage consumers to use water resources more efficiently, and the regulation will help to achieve the environmental objectives on which i think there is a broad consensus.
i would add that the introduction of measures to phase out discharges, emissions and losses of dangerous substances is, in my view, a vital element.
i remind you of them: there is the idea that all work must be worth doing in order to secure a guaranteed income, the certainty of being able to provide pensions and the need to make the pension system sustainable, the promotion of social integration and the guarantee of sustainable and high-quality health care.
we know that waste incineration is a very complex and technical area, but i think this report is a worthy piece of work.
unlike mrs grossetête, i believe that the common position and the blokland report will bring about a significant improvement in the environmental quality of the incineration of waste, whether hazardous or not.
i believe that we will have a useful tool to prevent and limit the damage that waste incineration does to the environment and we will also have a useful tool to prevent and limit the health risks we as human beings face.
i will not hesitate to support the point that there must be real waste planning with waste sorting so that waste incineration is linked to the whole of community waste legislation and the problem of incineration is high up in the waste hierarchy.
i also agree with the obligation to indicate very precisely the installations covered by these rules and the types of waste which benefit from a derogation.
i hope that by voting tomorrow we will be able to make our contribution to finding a solution to the environmental and health problems posed by waste incineration, so that the enormous volumes of waste we produce every day do not cause more environmental damage or health problems than is strictly necessary.
they will have serious consequences for health and the environment in europe and will result in a huge multi-billion dollar bill for european health services.
however, this is not about health or environmental protection.
however, there is an equally pressing need to develop the traditional economy; i therefore welcome the emphasis on the need to intensify research and consolidate the internal financial market and the support given by the council to liberalisation in the energy sector as well as in the postal and transport sectors, although the council did not set a deadline for these liberalisations.
the strategic objective of making the eu the most competitive, dynamic and knowledge-based economy in the world with a view to creating sustainable growth is of course good and praiseworthy, but there are several problems: firstly, the absence of any concrete measures that would link this ambition with reality and, secondly, the fact that it has not taken into account the subsequent social problems, which are, for the most part, the reality of our european union, for good but especially for bad.
this assessment should be based on the fertility of the land, the food chain, biodiversity, and the health issue, which is of great importance to us as human beings.
- (da) mr president, i should like to thank mr graça moura for the considerable work and energy he has devoted to the preparation of this report.
the european union must be based on a common political will to achieve the higher goals of peace, the environment and well-being in europe, with citizens at its centre.
all the reports of studies by both the danish and german transport ministries show that the construction of a bridge would not cause any problems, either from the environmental or the financial point of view.
every change is a little scary, whether it is the emu, the euro, the environment or a bridge.
we must therefore concentrate maximum energy in this area and we should try to include ngos and others who may be able to contribute to our efforts.
the fundamental framework we have introduced is a framework for mutual surveillance of national fiscal policies and coordination of economic policies through processes of improving our structural situations and coordinating or creating a positive macroeconomic environment that promotes growth and employment, while reducing the risks of asymmetric shocks induced by economic policies.
oil spills and the dumping of other substances into the sea that are harmful to the environment and to health cause enormous destruction - destruction with many consequences.
pollution cases are sometimes the result of accidents, sometimes of unacceptable behaviour and sometimes of deliberate actions by people and companies.
but the damage to wildlife and the environment, however it has been caused, is equally catastrophic and very often transnational.
radioactive substances have been included, which is a good thing, and i also welcome the inclusion of the notion of pollution from previously submerged materials and from munitions used.
the commission is aware that anonymous threats have been made against our colleagues, mrs stauner and mr blak, and this should make the commission realize that it must devote much more energy to countering the internal forces responsible for the disappearance of european taxpayers' money to criminal circles.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
liberalisation must have an objective: lower prices, security of supply, improved competitiveness and sustainable technological development.
we must ensure that future measures to liberalize the energy market include the whole of energy policy.
i am thinking here of consumers, the environment, competitiveness, renewable energy and workers.
would it not have been appropriate to put into practice these fine words on the protection of the environment and health and to apply this principle in a field about which we know very little?
we have also heard this argument in the committee on the environment and i think it is totally unacceptable.
- (da) i am pleased to see that the efforts to liberalize the energy sector seem to be bearing fruit.
the liberalization of the energy market in the eastern european countries will require special measures and special attention will have to be paid to the environment.
the eu can only deploy the energy required to carry out such tasks through close collaboration within the union, both economically and financially, and in particular through closer collaboration between external services.
i am not saying that there is already an agreement on the quantified objectives, but i would like you to know that i am putting a lot of energy into reaching such an agreement.
it is the need to make a determined strategy for the working environment.
this package of 200 million euros is intended to be used this year to take the necessary measures in the energy sector so that people have the necessary heating energy in winter, to alleviate the emergency situation in some areas of medical care, for example to ensure that children do not sit in school in winter freezing, but to finance necessary repairs.
i would of course like to thank you for your constructive contributions to the debate on climate change and how we should combat it.
we must of course force the reluctant to make this climate change conference a success, and show that we are credible in action too.
it is, of course, about transport and our transport systems, which must be equipped for the future, and it is about energy policy.
we must also discuss new areas and the integration of environmental and climate considerations into all policy areas.
emissions trading is just a complement to the measures at both member state and european level that we are looking to take in our fundamental political systems and infrastructures to address climate change.
the effects of man-made chemicals released into the environment are clear.
it is now obvious that we must put the fine words of environmental and health protection into practice and apply the principle in a field about which we know very little.
i am thinking both of the environment and of biotechnology.
we all know that it has been a long and very difficult process to get the requirements for the incineration of waste, both hazardous and non-hazardous, written down.
first of all, a substantial contribution has now been made to reducing emissions of dangerous and polluting substances from incineration.
substances which are very harmful to human health and which are harmful to the environment.
but i also think it is important to emphasize that the new situation is that we are no longer talking about emissions into the air, but also into the water and the soil.
the second point i would like to make is that citizens are now, as mr blokland said, better informed about the emissions from combustion plants through the annual reports to be drawn up.
finally, i would like to emphasize that by defining the common requirements that all must now meet, we can probably eliminate a substantial part of the so-called waste tourism.
it will no longer be economically attractive to export waste to other parts of the community where the waste management requirements are less stringent.
as mr blokland said, incineration is far from the ideal waste management.
but it is good that we now have some stricter rules on the incineration of waste.
i think that will prove to be a significant contribution to the improvement of the environment.
a common european airspace programme could, however, have advantages for research purposes as well as for environmental monitoring.
i think it will be very important for the health of europe that we have a lower limit value for tar and that we have some limits on how much nicotine and how much carbon monoxide can be in cigarettes.
as regards the environmental part - which is not part of the anti-dumping investigations but which must nevertheless be seen in a broader context - i would like to mention that community environmental legislation sets emission limits which must be respected by both producers and the user industry, regardless of the origin of the coke, and therefore, whether it is chinese coke or coke from elsewhere, the environmental consequences are the same.
- mr president, the environment and public health are like a complex machine with many functions, which we monitor and control in order to intervene so that nothing goes wrong.
the precautionary principle, in my view, simply concerns the right and, in particular, the duty to intervene by adequate and necessary means in the event of a suspicion or presumption that a substance or process may cause irreparable damage to the environment and to health.
we believe that there should be more incentives for sustainable banana production - so-called fair trade bananas.
we believe that maintaining fair trade banana support is essential and that it is equally important to continually strengthen incentives to produce bananas in a sustainable way.
this could therefore lead to further difficulties in implementing the necessary legislation in the areas of the environment, consumer protection and the working environment, and we urge the individual countries to show a sense of responsibility and to improve the efficiency of the decision-making procedures within the council.
unfair competition can contribute to the deterioration of the quality of the shipbuilding work environment, to a reduction in technical knowledge and to job losses and, in the longer term, to a monopoly situation, which would be detrimental to world trade.