however, while it is true that agriculture is not the only role, it remains essential not only if the economic and social disintegration of rural areas and the creation of new ghost towns is to be avoided, but also because farmers play a fundamental role in land management, the preservation of biodiversity and the protection of the environment.
to achieve these goals, to overcome regional inequalities and to find sources of employment, it is also important to make a strong commitment to new technologies, transport and communications networks and renewable energy.
the first priority is to improve the competitiveness of regional economies in order to create, in all sectors, but particularly in the private sector, as mr berend said, the maximum of serious, solid and sustainable jobs.
the guidelines also take account of two horizontal principles: rural development, and, madam rapporteur, i am sure that i include in rural development the issue of sustainable transport, to which i have been personally committed for quite some time - particularly as i recall the time when i was minister for the environment in my country - and the second principle is that of equal opportunities, particularly between women and men, as well as the european employment strategy and the framework of economic and monetary union.
as regards rural development, which has been mentioned by several of you, including mrs redondo jiménez, the guidelines correspond well to the dual objective mentioned by your rapporteur: a strong agricultural sector, linked to increased competitiveness in rural areas, but also the safeguarding of the environment and the rural heritage of europe.
and we must ensure that environmental and labour standards are respected in order to avoid dumping in this sector, that property rights are strictly respected, that state aid is reviewed because - as has been said in this house - it distorts competition in many sectors and destroys employment within the union and, finally, that identical conditions are applied to prevent aid, internal distortions from other countries from spreading internationally through traps, in the end.
if biodiversity and cultural diversity are, in my view, a good thing, the same cannot be said for the diversity of the application of the law, which is the essential core of the internal market, namely competition law.
- (es) mr president, i would like to thank my socialist colleagues, particularly those in the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, because they have not forgotten that this disaster also affects the fisheries sector.
in addition to the irreparable damage to the environment, the damage to the ecosystem and the losses to the tourist sector, the black tide is a real blow to fisheries, to the conservation of resources in the marine environment, and it will take many years before these coasts recover from this disaster.
we must thank those who, helpless and lacking in resources, fought courageously against the serious effects of this disaster on europe's coastal regions, marine ecosystem and marine resources.
commissioner, many experts believe that a double hull is not safe enough and propose the so-called 'ecological hull' where, in the event of an accident, seawater enters the tanks and exerts pressure which transfers the oil to other tanks.
any study of the cost-effectiveness ratio, which really accounts for all the damage caused by these accidents to people and the environment, will prove us right.
i would like to say that this is not just an environmental problem.
it is a very important environmental problem, but it is also a very important social problem.
men and women depend on seafood, fisheries, the service sector or tourism in these coastal areas; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the new technologies.
and that is where the solas (international convention for the safety of life at sea) and marpol (international convention for the prevention of pollution from ships) conventions come into play, two conventions of the international maritime organization which will have to be made mandatory in due course in all the member states of the union and whose application will have to be monitored.
in other words, experts are increasingly convinced that climate change and human activities, in general terms, are responsible for the increase in natural disasters in recent years.
subject: construction of a nuclear power station in a seismically sensitive area of turkey the two earthquakes, both of which exceeded 7 on the richter scale, which recently struck turkey, raise the most serious concerns about turkey's willingness to build costly nuclear reactors at akuyu, even though the surplus energy produced by the ataturk dams is exported to third countries and the eu is using its own resources to help repair the damage caused by the earthquakes.
question no 29 by mr david robert bowe (h-0786/99) subject: weapons containing depleted uranium has the commission carried out studies on the effects that cross-border pollution due to the use of depleted uranium weapons during the kosovo conflict could have on eu states?
we know from an environmental point of view - i have already mentioned this - that there is now a plan for the reconstruction of the environment, but when it comes to medical examinations, i have no information.
we contribute to programmes in the region that have a certain ecological impact.
there is an ecological aspect to which we should continue to give priority.
question no 41 by mrs maría izquierdo rojo (h-0813/99) subject: promotion of employment for women in the most disadvantaged areas given the enormous difficulties faced by women in certain very disadvantaged areas in accessing employment, and considering that very often they do not have the minimum economic capital, a tradition of enterprise or training facilities and that they live in rural areas where the poverty line affects up to 80% of the population, what measures or actions does the commission envisage to enable these women to overcome the social barriers erected by their environment?
secondly, we must give consumers and small and mediumsized businesses confidence and create a climate and a culture of risk management that is controlled, even if it seems contradictory.
so in this respect i think we need a lot of coordination, cooperation and, of course, a lot of energy.
- (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall dwell on two aspects which i consider to be essential to this ambitious six-month programme of the portuguese presidency: economic cooperation with the countries of the mediterranean area and the promotion and sustainability of employment.
i am sure that, with the good mood you have shown today, the first thing you will do in this new climate of mutual understanding will be to consider the motion for a resolution which we shall be submitting to you.
- question no 1 by mr ioannis souladakis (h-0780/99) subject: construction of a nuclear power station in a seismically sensitive area of turkey the two earthquakes, both of which exceeded 7 on the richter scale, which recently struck turkey, raise the most serious concerns about turkey's willingness to build costly nuclear reactors at akuyu, even though the surplus energy produced by the ataturk dams is exported to third countries and the eu is using its own resources to help repair the damage caused by the earthquakes.
this, of course, requires the measures to be taken within the framework of the european union concerning: the stabilisation of the situation in bosnia-herzegovina; the new contractual link we are trying to establish with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia; all the positive measures we are trying to implement with albania; and of course, in the face of the pressure we are putting on the serbian authorities, including the help through the energy for democracy project, which we are giving to serbian municipalities linked to democratic structures.
this package of actions can, taken as a whole and through their synergy, create an environment capable of resolving the situation in kosovo.
in this context, i would like to highlight the adoption in may 1999 of a new rural development aid scheme, which constitutes the community reference framework for sustainable rural development.
through the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund, the eaggf, this community support framework is intended to help reverse the trend towards desertification of the rural environment to which the honourable member so rightly refers in his question.
in this context, it should be recalled that the erdf also contributes to the promotion of sustainable rural development and the creation of sustainable jobs in rural areas.
we hope that the house will adopt this report, as it was approved in the committee on fisheries, with the amendments to which the rapporteur has referred, and that the commission and the council will take note of it in order to reactivate a key instrument for achieving the objectives of the current common fisheries policy, based on the sustainable development of the sector, which is advocated by the committee on fisheries of this parliament.
this week, when we spoke of a disaster in europe and said that climate change might be related - and many experts already say so - to the continued proliferation of disasters wrongly called 'natural'.
in the case of venezuela - we had the opportunity to visit it on the occasion of the conference between the european parliament and the latin american parliament - the uncontrolled urban development and the environmental damage likely to aggravate these situations are visible.
it is necessary to examine the development model of venezuela and other countries, reorienting it in the light of its inconsistencies with respect to the preservation and respect of the environment.
it is also necessary to provide assistance in the context of the study of these aspects and the harmful influence that certain industrial sectors have on the environmental balance, and not only in venezuela.
a conference between the european union and latin america should be held to reverse the trend towards dependence on, export of and indiscriminate exploitation of energy resources.
the reform essentially involved updating the body by integrating other actors who in recent years have played an increasingly important role in managing the rational exploitation of resources: development ngos, environmental groups, consumers and also scientists.
i also welcome the request in the opinion by mr gallagher on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy for detailed reports on the distribution of funds between the various member states and associations which could benefit from this proposal.
the legislative proposal is divided into three parts: the first is the reform of the advisory committee, which now has 20 members instead of 45, with the participation of the trade organisations at 60%, industrial and commercial enterprises at 25% and environmental organisations at 15%.
the imprisonment of an alleged offender is a positive sign which we welcome, just as we welcome the will and energy shown by president pastrana during his recent visit to this parliament.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5­0006/2000) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive on end-of-life vehicles (com (99) 0805 - c5-0180/1999 - 1997/0194 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr florenz).
firstly, and perhaps this is the fundamental element of this proposal, the idea, inherent in the recycling and use of waste, of using materials which subsequently pollute less.
another important point is that waste containing lead, cadmium and mercury, as well as waste containing pvc, should not be incinerated or crushed.
we are talking about the fact that almost ten million cars are destroyed every year in the european union, which produces about as many millions of tonnes of waste.
this means that almost ten million tons of waste are produced by these vehicles and that about 7 percent of it is dumped in nature.
they also release the worst environmental hazards.
the growth of these waste streams is one of the fastest we have in europe.
we know that waste is there, we know how to deal with it, and we have no excuse for not doing something.
we cannot take matters into our own hands any longer at the end of a product's life cycle, but we must avoid producing so much waste.
this is because there is a waste of resources due to the lack of recycling of the material in the cars.
it is primarily the resources of the manufacturers that we waste if we do not tackle the life cycle of a car.
no, it is clear that we will all have to bear the costs if the environment is damaged, but they will be much higher.
of course they have to be green, they have to be recyclable, they have to consume less, they have to not pollute our environment.
we need to create a healthy driving force, one that ensures that we take care of waste, that we recycle materials and that we compete with cleaner, less fuel-consuming cars.
we have to do this for the environment.
the costs don't go away, nor does the waste.
i would also like to thank karl-heinz florenz, if i have not already done so, for the hard work he has put into this proposal in the committee on the environment.
i think that this will have many positive and tangible consequences for the environment.
i would point out that some of the remaining amendments to the basic principles of the proposal involve a significant reduction in the level of environmental protection which is the objective of the common position.
parliament has traditionally made a major contribution to strengthening environmental legislation in europe.
amendments nos 4, 11 and 30 involve the separation of heavy metals and waste before recycling.
let me also comment - listen carefully to what i am about to say now, because i have heard this repeatedly in the debate - on the question of historic and collector cars which are mentioned in amendments nos 3, 7, 9, part two, and 35. such vehicles are not covered by the definition of waste and therefore do not fall within the scope of the directive.
it also stressed that the main objective of the programme was to promote sustainable development strategies whose positive effects extend beyond the local community and therefore considered that it would be appropriate for projects to be integrated into development programmes, including objectives 1 and 2, and in the spatial planning of the regions and countries concerned.
the commission considers that projects financed under action 1 should exploit the potential of indigenous development, drawing in particular on local traditions, techniques and practices, on specific production and on sustainable energy management practices.
we understand that the first priority is the economic and social agenda, which also includes what it calls the quality of life in its priorities, that is, the rights of citizens as consumers and as persons concerned by subjects that we always affirm but do not emphasize enough, such as the european social model and its adaptation to new circumstances, consumer rights, respect for the environment and sustainable development.
the choice must be made, giving priority to the most degraded situations and to the places most in need, in the light of all the objectives set, that is to say, the social, economic, environmental and democratic management dimensions, and their mutual relations.
the third is that account must be taken of the synergies created by other community programmes and the possibilities for sustainable development of the environment or the region in question.
this obliges us to abstain in the final vote because we do not understand how the environmental aspect cannot be taken into account when choosing the projects to be financed and we do not understand how it cannot be accepted that each member state can allocate to urban projects the part of the structural funds that it would not have used in accordance with the community programmes.
however, in the case of spain and other southern countries with an irregular climate, water management requires policy approaches to rationalise water use and other solidarity measures.
we want to ensure that article 1 of the directive encourages sustainable, efficient, fair and solidarity-based use of water.
the spanish would see the price of water rise for its various uses mainly because of the scarcity of water resources and the internalisation of environmental costs that will have to be made under the provisions of the directive.
that is why we have always advocated a gradual system of cost recovery, one which takes account of social, environmental and economic effects and whose application is adapted to different geographical and climatic conditions.
we want to build a europe with a sustainable and healthy environment.
but the europe of the environment cannot be built at different speeds, it must be built in solidarity.
but some amendments seek to help the countries of the south, in particular amendment no 43 which, when it talks about cost recovery, also states that member states will have to take account of the social and environmental conditions of the countries when making decisions.
the european union is faced each year with an increasing volume of waste electrical and electronic equipment (6 million tonnes in 1998) due in particular to the accelerated obsolescence of equipment.
the environmental problems associated with the incineration and landfill of this waste are mainly due to the presence of hazardous substances (lead, cadmium, mercury, hexavalent chromium, pvc and halogenated flame retardants).
a preliminary draft directive to regulate the management of such waste has been the subject of three successive versions, the latest of which was adopted in july 1999. can the commission explain the long gestation of this project, which was supposed to be completed in 1998?
commission - (sv) the commission agrees with the honourable member that the treatment of electrical and electronic waste in the european union is causing major environmental problems.
parts of the proposal have been criticised, including the prohibition of certain heavy metals and bromine flame retardants, and the application of the principle that the manufacturer is responsible for the treatment of such electrical and electronic waste.
let me add that i intend to submit to the commission before easter a proposal on the treatment of electrical and electronic waste.
it is clear that in a reflection process such as this, which concerns a very large flow of electrical and electronic waste in europe, the various parties involved are in constant dialogue.
i would like to say that i believe that the united states' intervention must not have the effect of steering our decisions towards measures which are inadequate from the point of view of the environment.
i am really against the fact that the wto and trade rules can be constantly invoked to prevent the eu from taking radical environmental measures.
- question no 42 by mrs maj britt theorin (h-0026/00) subject: women and the environment almost all the parties involved in the rio and kyoto processes - organisations, citizens' movements, governments, the world bank, the united nations and charitable organisations - felt that women should have a greater say in environmental decisions.
the appointment of more women to senior positions in environmental bodies would allow the mainly male decision-makers to go beyond business issues to include issues of social justice.
will the commission adopt an action plan to increase the active participation of women in environmental decision-making?
the directorate-general for the environment is working particularly actively in this direction.
the commission fully supports the efforts being made in this respect and is currently studying whether specific measures can be taken in the field of the environment.
it seems to me that environmental work, in general, is very often dominated by women.
this trend should be continued so that women can also obtain positions of responsibility or move up the hierarchy of bodies working on the environment.
question no 45 by mrs marie anne isler béguin (h-0041/00) subject: financing of research in the field of civil nuclear energy by the structural funds can the commission confirm that in the last programming period of the structural funds 1994-1999 no support was granted for research in the field of nuclear fusion and fission?
what role will the contribution of the structural funds play in promoting renewable energies?
can we expect the financing of the structural funds in the field of energy policy to be directed towards the promotion of regional and renewable energy resources?
will the structural funds also finance the large energy transmission networks?
the energy situation varies greatly from one region of the european union to another, and assistance from the funds may be justified in certain cases and for certain regions, particularly where connection to the basic energy networks is still underdeveloped.
this is my answer to the question of the link between the large energy transmission networks and the structural funds.
the problems of water pollution affecting the new member states in the east must also be added to this.
i come from a country whose southern half leans towards the mediterranean and where water availability has historically responded to the whims of a changing climate and a difficult terrain.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
finally, i would like to mention the amendments on dangerous substances, which call for zero or near-zero pollution.
we have not yet discovered the zero pollution level for any human activity.
i hope that this parliament will vote once again with realism and respect for the principle of subsidiarity, seeking a proper balance between environmental objectives and economic and social considerations, the three essential elements for achieving the sustainable development that we all so much want.
it is very easy for us to ask others to assess the impact, but when it comes to the environment, we should ask ourselves, how many people, how many farmers could be ruined by paying the costs.
environmental obligations are increasing in all regions and the only financial instrument devoted exclusively to the environment is decreasing.
why do we talk about the environment when we are not prepared to pay for it, when we want the same people who live there all year to pay for it and maintain it?
the cost of maintaining the environment, which we all enjoy, must be borne by all and the life programme is the only financial instrument exclusively devoted to the environment whose projects have generally been effective.
for example, the commission, in its long-term guidelines, says that the objective of sustainable development must be translated into strong solidarity, supported by a trade policy that takes account of common interests.
- (es) apart from amendment no 76, where i made a mistake because i intended to vote in favour, my votes could be explained by the following fiction: the proposed draft environmental directive: 'directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing the obligation to maintain a temperature of at least 18°c in the streets, squares and gardens of european cities during the winter.'
main features of the directive: (a) each city will have to have sufficient energy and technological resources to achieve this target by 2012; (b) the costs will be borne in full by the inhabitants of each town and will be added to the electricity bill.
the mep who is now explaining his vote considers it positive that there is a community directive on water, but he believes that environmental dogmatism does not build europe, it makes a legislative caricature.
surprisingly, i imagine with the best of intentions, this ecological objective has been turned into an instrument of commercial warfare by making consumers, especially in the agricultural sector, bear the cost of facilities and procedures to ensure good quality water.
when we do not distinguish between countries and regions where water is abundant and poses no problem, and regions where drought and low rainfall make it scarce, limiting their possibilities for minimal economic and social development, we are already altering the ecological principle to make it a devastating weapon.
at that time, acting as an interpreter of the general feeling of the disastrous consequences of the disaster, the council expressed its concern about the safety of oil tankers and the environmental protection which must be associated with it.
we believe that this is essential for the protection of the environment.
if we think too much, by next summer an oil tanker in such conditions could very well sink off the coast of the algarve, destroy the portuguese summer tourism industry and, with a little luck, the sea currents could carry this pollution to madeira - because they are going in that direction - and, in addition, also destroy tourism in the canary islands.
it is a resolution which has probably encountered difficulties in its implementation for the simple reason that it presupposes a climate of stability to which mr milosevic and his regime have not contributed.
the world bank has decided not to fund the project, which will displace 20,000 kurds, potentially limit the supply of fresh water to syria and iraq and cause environmental damage.
question no 9 by mrs patricia mckenna (h-0044/00) subject: environmental problems caused by the proposed development of the drogheda port company and the role of the court of auditors a major conflict of interest between environmental preservation and structural development has arisen in the boyne estuary in ireland following a development project by the drogheda harbour company.
similar cases occur in other regions of the union, where community funding is hampered by the fact that the beneficiary actions are contrary to environmental protection.
does the council not think that the court of auditors should be given additional resources to examine development measures which give rise to ecological conflicts?
it is therefore responsible for checking whether certain development projects comply with the applicable environmental provisions.
we hope that this new environment has given us the desired result, namely increased transparency and better knowledge of the commission's decisions in its implementing powers.
we thought we had got rid of the horror of the intolerance that racism had unleashed in europe, but as the years go by - why not say it - the social degradation in our europe combines with the increase in migration flows from the countries around us and a greater awareness of human rights, and this climate of racism and intolerance is increasing.
i am sure that progress has been made in recent years, but we still need to work together to achieve a climate of tolerance where racism and xenophobia are unacceptable, completely unacceptable, while responding with extreme vigour to incidents such as those we are discussing this afternoon.
we all know that there are a huge number of these types of basins, which are ecological bombs and which endanger the supply of drinking water, the ecological wealth and the economic future of these regions.
the union must integrate these basins into community law, in the waste directives, and use the principle of prevention to prevent this from happening again.
otherwise we will continue to endanger the ecological wealth of our continent for ever.
in these 15 requests, the commission is invited to adopt concrete measures and actions without neglecting the environmental aspect and cultural protection, particularly in the outermost and island regions.
i think we all recognise the economic, social and environmental importance of tourism in europe as it has developed so far and its extraordinary potential for growth and jobs.
the coordination of community tourism activities with other important issues such as regional policy, transport, employment, the environment, culture and competition must involve the member states and the tourism industry itself.
quality, sustainability and innovation are at the forefront of the commission's policy and are priorities recognised by the council of ministers.
quality products to improve competitiveness, sustainability to protect resources and innovation in particular through information technology.
the european environment agency and the commission have already started work on sustainability indicators.
such a european strategy will be achieved by building on the commitment of the member states and the commission to cooperate in a number of priority areas: exchange and dissemination of information, including through new technologies; training to improve skills; quality of tourism products and sustainable development in the tourism sector.
in the field of the environment, we are looking at methods of cooperation with mrs wallström; in the field of regional policy, mr barnier pays great attention to this sector.
this proposal will take full account of the need to guarantee universal service, develop effective safeguards for consumers and create a climate conducive to new jobs - not job losses - in the context of a gradual, gradual evolution.
if we are to move into a european environment tomorrow in matters of economics, politics and vital decisions for each country, it is not worth killing each other for.
in those days they courageously faced the enormous problems of the environment and politics, the problems of poverty, and the aftermath of a bloody war.
in some sectors, such as air transport, energy and telecommunications, the costs borne by our companies are still very high when compared with the unit costs of the united states or other countries which are also internationally competitive.
environmental implications must also be taken very seriously.
as regards the environmental impact, it is well known that although stocks have declined over the last decade, several reasons have been put forward to explain this decline: pollution, overfishing, climate change, etc.
sick fish should not be kept on farms and i am prepared to look into this to avoid unnecessary spread of the virus into the environment.
the procedures for establishing additional control measures, which already exist in community legislation, will be used to implement withdrawal schemes based on the health status of fish, in order to minimise any impact on the environment.
i also welcome amendment no 9, but i think it could be better formulated, so that environmental concerns, disease control and eradication strategies are brought together.
we remain committed to eradicating the disease, which will benefit both the environment and salmon farming.
- (es) mr president, mr fischler, ladies and gentlemen, the report i was rapporteur for concerns the important integration of the environment and fisheries, which was discussed at the bergen ministerial meeting.
as the president-in-office of the council pointed out to us in our committee, when he told us that the portuguese presidency was seeking to see fisheries as a policy aimed at maintaining our sustainable resources, this must be our objective in europe and in the world.
it is a matter of chance that my report in parliament coincides with mr katiforis's report on fisheries and the environment, and with our committee's oral question - which we shall consider tomorrow - on the very serious consequences for fisheries of the accident of the oil tanker erika.
shipping and industrial and urban pollution, waste all have a negative impact on fisheries.
i regret to say that this report, because of its connection with the environment, seems to have provided an opportunity for some people with this kind of vision to present one after another their own folly.
but this relationship is much broader and includes many factors, such as pollution or shipping.
it is as unfair as it is inaccurate to blame the deterioration of the environment on the fishermen alone.
i therefore ask that the four amendments tabled be rejected and that we close this chapter on fisheries and the environment on the consideration which has emerged from the debate in the committee: it is true that these two sectors are closely linked and suffer the consequences of the same environmental attacks.
as i have said many times, fisheries are more the victim than the perpetrator of the deterioration of the marine ecosystem, and we shall have the opportunity to verify this tomorrow during the debate on the erika.
i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need for better coordination of european fisheries and environmental policies.
it is not only fisheries and the environment that need to be integrated, but also shipping, employment and energy.
the waste, as mr katiforis said, is an unacceptable waste of resources.
it is the shipowners and seamen of the countries with the most important fishing activity who are most interested in the respect of their environment, because without this it is not possible to guarantee the future of this economy.
secondly, it is clear that a policy for the conservation of the marine environment must be applied both in community seas and in the waters of third countries or international waters.
i have just shown that the european union is financing with erdf resources the construction of a chemical and hydrocarbon storage dock in vilagarcia, galicia, in a facility which employs only three workers, contrary to the provisions of the ec directive on environmental impact assessment, in a mouth like that of arousa, where 26 000 people live off shellfish.
and then to focus today on a concrete aspect of the serious environmental disaster caused by this accident, namely its impact on the fisheries and aquaculture sectors in the affected regions.
we must be pioneers and forerunners in the destruction of the environment, industry and professional activities.
- (es) mr president, the sinking of the erika on 12 december off the coast of brittany has caused a black tide, the effects of which on the environment will be felt for many years.
for the aquaculture and oyster farming sectors, which were helpless in the face of the pollution that irretrievably reached the coasts, the results were very serious from the first days and also afterwards, due to the loss of market shares in these sectors and the rejection by the consumer of a guaranteed product but affected by this pollution.
the other amendments to the environmental regulation can be divided into two categories: on the one hand, amendments which consist of reformulating certain elements of the scope of the proposed act or its means of intervention; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
we oppose amendment no 15 on the creation of an environmental monitoring unit, since we believe that this is an internal organisational issue within the commission which should not be resolved by means of a regulation.
the regulation under discussion today is intended to create measures to promote the conservation and sustainable management of tropical forests in developing countries, so as to be able to guarantee the financial means necessary to maintain and extend the actions and projects which, with this objective, have been launched since the approval of regulation 3062 in force until december 1999. this financial instrument enables the union to fulfil its obligations under the convention on biological diversity, the framework convention on climate change and the convention to combat desertification.
firstly, all ports must have the necessary facilities for waste treatment.
but we cannot start a battle which ends up distorting competition between the different ports, nor can we end up with a series of measures, theoretically of an environmental nature, on the protection of the coast or the sea which ends up distorting competition between the different ports.
the only thing it will generate will be the benefit of some ports at the expense of others, and all because of the fine words for environmental protection, but which will cover up a competition battle between ports.
i would like to confirm to him that, as far as tax provisions on the environment are concerned (many of which are directly linked to the functioning of the internal market, beyond the well-being of citizens and the quality of life), we are well aware that behind these issues there are risks of distortion of competition which will indeed be aggravated by enlargement; we therefore propose that all these environmental tax measures be adopted by qualified majority.
subject: ecological threats to europe the recent cyanide spill in the danube has revealed the existence of unknown 'ecological bombs' which threaten the whole of the european continent; at the same time, the report of the european environment agency predicts that in the first decade of the 21st century, the production of paper, glass or plastic waste will increase by 40 to 60%, cadmium and mercury emissions will increase by 20 to 30%, and waste management will result in heavy metals, gases and other toxic by-products that contribute to the greenhouse effect and pollute air and water.
on the basis of the information provided in the report, what reaction does the commission envisage, what policy does it intend to implement and what security measures will it take to protect europe from the effects of the 'ecological bombs' which threaten it?
on the other hand, i must ask you to consider that the use of the nuclear option for energy production is a decision which depends on the sovereignty of each state.
the commission, like parliament and the council, has no power to ban the use of nuclear energy in any country or to impose the immediate shutdown of reactors.
in this area, you are always faced with the question of whether you accept what you can get or whether you adopt a rigid attitude, which may appease your environmental conscience but which will not lead to anything in the end.
the communication on sensitive areas essentially sets out how to combine the environmental needs of the pyrenees and the alps with the need to allow the movement of goods and people.
the reduction of air and noise pollution caused by tirs requires the moving of all heavy goods traffic in transit onto rails.
in the case of a new line, consideration should be given to the solution with the lowest environmental impact.
has the commission examined the environmental impact of the various rail link projects between verona and munich?
(the sitting was suspended at 7.25 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
- (es) mr president, madam commissioner, i agree that the biggest problem with the directive we are dealing with is the diversity of criteria for setting target values and deadlines for reducing ozone concentrations in the atmosphere, the famous tables 2 and 3 in annex 1. our group, the european people's party, believes that the main lines laid down in the commission proposal should be supported, particularly with regard to the target values, which coincide with the world health organisation guidelines on air quality and which set the permissible ozone concentrations at 120 μg/m3.
in this sense, we believe that it is essential to move towards greater flexibility in the adaptation periods to these target values, given the real difficulty of controlling ozone concentrations by quantifying them only in the presence of precursors, as is continually the case in certain climatic conditions, in particular, as just mentioned, in the mediterranean countries.
however, we consider the amendments concerning the countries applying for membership of the european union, so that they participate as soon as possible in the objectives of the european union, very positive - in this sense, we congratulate mr davies on this initiative - and it also seems important to us that the action plans have a local character and that the possibilities of reducing ozone concentrations are studied on a case-by-case basis.
but on a bilateral level, we have the responsibility, the duty and the right to be vigilant in the face of what we consider to be a breach of a climate of trust by certain personalities, by certain of their past statements, by the proposals of a political nature which they have put forward.
the other arm of the budgetary authority, should be consulted before the next euratom loan to ukraine for k2/r4, in view of the worrying recent incidents in khmelnitsky and rivne, the decline in electricity production and consumption and the halt in the energy market reform, which further jeopardise the viability of the loan and its repayment?
- the next item is the report (a5-0066/2000) by mrs ferrer, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the position to be taken by the community within the ec-mexico joint council on the implementation of articles 3, 4, 5, 6 and 12 of the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters (com (2000) 5965 - c5-0076/2000 - 2000/0024 (cns)).
this is because the economic partnership, political coordination and cooperation agreement, within the framework of which we must situate the text of my report, is the result of the desire to promote a genuinely democratic political system which respects human rights, social and environmental rights and a fairer social balance, through greater economic development which will be generated by the liberalization of trade.
for all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, by an overwhelming majority, recommends a vote in favour of the council's decision on the outcome of the negotiations, the benefits of which we must ensure that they really contribute to promoting a more democratic political system which respects human rights and social justice.
unfortunately, the experience of nafta has taught us that such a result is not automatic: the facts are there that free trade has had a negative impact on the lives of many people, has worsened environmental damage and has marginalized large segments of the mexican population, not to mention reports from mexican human rights ngos that indicate a deterioration in the human rights situation since the interim agreement came into force in 1998. so, all things considered, the current agreement has failed to protect mexico's vulnerable workforce, preserve intensive sectors and guarantee minimum environmental standards.
president of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
we obviously share the fundamental concerns about everything that concerns human rights, sustainable development and, above all, in a context where social exclusion has no place.
- the next item is the report (a5-0067/2000) by mrs read, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission on a commission initiative for the extraordinary european council in lisbon on 23 and 24 march 2000 - europe - an information society for all (com (99) 687 - c5-0063/2000 - 2000/2034 (cos)).
finally, mr president, i would like to stress the importance of amendment no 10, which proposes a new article 5a, which sets out the following criteria which eligible programmes or actions must meet: they serve to maintain and create jobs; they stimulate social and territorial cohesion; give women and young people a greater role; they preserve the environment and guarantee water resources, air quality and soil quality; the eu's energy policy is based on the principle of sustainable development.
given the importance of the categories of expenditure involved - telecommunications, energy, etc.
the european union adopted on 29 april 1999 a council regulation to control and reduce noise pollution from subsonic aircraft engines, limiting the use of silencers over time, which do not completely solve the problem, and encouraging airlines to renew their fleets with new generation aircraft that are less polluting.
the european investment bank's borrowings, which represent an amount of the same order of magnitude, are mainly intended for the financing of infrastructure and environmental projects.
the council confirms its readiness to contribute to the creation of a climate of confidence between all parties in order to find a solution to the question of western sahara based on human rights and respect for democratic principles.
the conference showed that the key to increasing the region's attractiveness to investors is that the partners have thriving, open, competitive economies within a secure and predictable legal and administrative environment.
the meda programme supports, among other things, the interconnection of infrastructure in the fields of energy, transport and new technologies.
ngos can benefit from a number of programmes, for example the smart programme on the environment, the cultural heritage programme, the euromed youth programme and the meda for democracy programme.
- (es) mr president, the need to promote the development of renewable energy sources is a fundamental issue whenever questions arise such as the kyoto protocol agreement and the respect of our commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or when we talk about sustainability in energy policy.
everyone also has in mind that support for renewable energy is one of the major assets for achieving real results, particularly in terms of controlling carbon dioxide emissions, and for achieving the target proposed in the white paper of 12% renewable energy by 2010. now, in the light of this need, there are a number of noteworthy facts to consider.
firstly, renewable energy currently has the disadvantage of having a lower economic efficiency.
thirdly, the difference in starting points in the various member states is a characteristic of renewable energies, which recommends that any solution be adapted to this difference.
fourthly, we must not over-limit the concept of renewable energy, although it seems reasonable to provide for certain restrictions in support actions for installations whose size and efficiency require it.
i think we have to consider all the issues related to renewable energy as something very important, given that we want to leave a planet that is habitable for future generations.
it is curious that we are gradually almost committing suicide without sounding the alarm because of the pollution of the earth.
i think we can first of all look for all renewable energies, use them, encourage them, promote them and apply the appropriate incentives to make them sustainable, while penalizing polluting energies in the same way.
as everyone knows, most conventional energy sources, with the exception of hydro, wind and so on, cause a series of environmental damages that are often as serious as co2, acid rain, black tides and so on.
these damages are usually repaired by public administrations, through recovery and environmental protection programmes.
in the case of renewable energy sources which do not cause any damage to the environment, i think it would be reasonable to compensate them, at least as long as there is no tax on emissions of polluting particles such as co2 and other pollutants.
so as long as public administrations continue to repair the damage caused by thermal or nuclear power stations, we will be subsidizing these energy sources at the expense of renewable energy.
finally, i would like to speak about the creation of an appropriate legal framework for this type of energy which encourages the rapid development of these energies, taking into account that in the long run the part corresponding to renewable energies must prevail.
the commission has already informed the parliamentary committee on budgets of its intention to propose, in the preliminary draft budget for 2001, measures to ensure the financial sustainability of the fund for the next five years.
you already know that there is a great waste of money due to fraud and embezzlement.
you have a great challenge to face, because many other remedies are lost because of demotivation, this virus that has infected the entire commission administration and which you must suppress with energy.
in all this, the interests of consumers and the interests of the environment must be taken into account, and this is a difficult task.
this unit should not be used only on a bilateral basis, but should help groups of countries which often have common political problems, as well as environmental and other problems.
thirdly, the civil liability clause, which is very clear to those responsible for the release of these genetically modified organisms which may have an impact on health or the environment.
this may spread, contaminate other plants and cause serious damage to the environment.
a note on education: last winter, despite all the cynical comments, our programme 'energy for democracy' was extraordinarily successful in serbia.
the mayor of nis has just written a letter in which he says that the energy for democracy programme is a model of political support that we should provide to this country.
subject: participation of researchers from developing countries in eu-funded environmental research programmes for developing countries, the opportunity to participate in development work both in the problem-defining phase and in the solution-finding phase is the key to development.
in other words, partners from north africa, for example, cannot participate in environmental science and technology projects.
to do this, the e-commerce environment, the environment of new technologies must provide a good platform.
- (es) mr president, i will be very brief, i simply want to say that the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, after receiving mr dary's draft report and after having studied the banana sector carefully, came to the conclusion that the solution proposed by mr dary met the conditions which were truly essential for its success.
it is also the system that best defends the principle of the multifunctionality of agriculture, that best protects producers in the european union and in the developing countries, with which we have a very special relationship, that is most sensitive to the protection of basic social standards and the protection of the environment and, finally, that best meets the principle of consumer protection.
the report by mr dary, the opinion by mr westendorp and the opinion by mr fernández martín call on the commission to comply with international law, not to go beyond what is required by the world trade organisation, to negotiate and to take into account that if we give in on this point, we will give in on more important points, such as maintaining the requirements of social policy and environmental protection at world level, which is our position at international level.
it is therefore good that the commission is receptive to mr dary's report, which i welcome, and to the amendments which are being tabled, which seek to correct the imbalances arising from globalisation and to ensure that the commission is sensitive to the problems of banana-growing families, that it does not bend to imports with single tariff duties and that it struggles when necessary to maintain for a reasonable period of time its commitment to the citizens and the agricultural organizations concerned, which make up one of the most vulnerable sectors in very specific regions of the union and the acp countries, with the resulting social, economic and environmental repercussions.
the commission is of the firm opinion that your desire to replace the tariff regime with a system of sustainable tariff quotas will only lead to further attacks within the wto.
in addition, the european union may grant subsidies for the production of organic bananas in the framework of the agri-environmental measures provided for in the provisions for the promotion of rural development.
education is a universal human right, the key to sustainable human development, a fundamental responsibility of states and, above all, an achievable goal if the resources required are mobilised.
- (es) mr president, madam commissioner, for some time now the communities around barajas airport in madrid have been protesting every time the airport is enlarged, for various reasons, mainly because of noise pollution.
i would like to highlight some of the proposals in the joint motion for a resolution - pardon the redundancy - which i think the european commission should take into account if it wants to reduce noise pollution: a comprehensive and integrated programme for the reduction of noise pollution which should give rise to a framework directive with concrete and binding measures; the uniform application of these measures to all member states so that there is no distortion; a community framework for noise classification which allows action to be taken with strict time allocation and reduction of flights and progress towards the establishment of a common airspace, which is not incompatible with local or regional measures.
in the fifth framework programme for research, research on the design of aircraft is needed to reduce their impact on noise pollution.
all this work must be done in collaboration with the people and neighbourhood associations who are calling for a reduction in noise and other pollution and a reduction in the large increase in air traffic demands throughout europe, as in spain.
the debate on the hatzidakis report (which i congratulate the author of) is a great opportunity for us to become politically aware of the situation in question and to try to remedy it in the context of the reform - of a decision-making nature - of the transeuropean networks policy which is to take place in the period 2000-2006. in this sense, and as the amendments tabled show, our group intends to: ensure the compatibility of networks with sustainable development; the commission will be able to take part in the discussions on the reform of the structural funds, which will be held in the autumn.
the concentration of railway, airport and port networks is creating serious congestion problems and serious environmental problems which we must avoid.
- (es) mr president, today's report deals with the results of the liberalization of the air transport sector in the european union which has been completed since 1993. we have supported this process of liberalization so that bilateral barriers are removed, ownership rules are changed, technical standards are harmonized and adequate safety standards are established, and so that the conditions of liberalization lead to greater transparency in the design of air transport development policy and above all allow the introduction of environmental conditions in the production of the aviation industry, in tariff policy and in air traffic management.
the main criticism we have against the commission is that in its comprehensive analysis it treats environmental, safety and health problems in the aviation industry as a separate debate in a separate communication, when in reality the impact of these factors on the future of the industry is crucial.
the external environmental costs of air transport should be included in airline pricing policy, the allocation of slots regulation should be revised to take account of specific environmental criteria, taking into account noise and emissions to air, and specific actions should be taken to promote intermodality with other trans-european networks, in particular with rail, in the light of the conclusions of the report on aviation and the global atmosphere, which estimates that more than 10% of european short-haul air traffic could be transferred from air to train.
the opinions of the various committees, the opinion of mr berenguer fuster on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, the opinion of mr whitehead on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and the opinion of mrs montfort on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy are also favourable and have been well received.
we believe that this must be sustainable aid and that it must be balanced and adapted to aid for the processing of long fibres, as the only way to guarantee the commercial opportunities available to short fibres in an industrial sector which is a real alternative to synthetic products.
it emphasises the economic and ecological importance of flax and hemp production.
president of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the creation of an omnipotent machinery designed to prosecute officials on the basis of secret denunciations, denunciations and lists of suspects, with a brand-name letter in relation to the individual guarantees, statutes and standards which, in the end, constitute the basic legal security of those who work in the institutions, is an irresponsibility in which, in my opinion, neither parliament nor the other community institutions should participate, because such a climate of mistrust will only benefit the eurosceptics.
we would enter into a wider debate that would have a lot to do with the starting point; the evolution of economic forecasts and real economies in each zone; with the evolution, of course, of interest rates; and other technical elements, such as expiry dates for certain types of emissions, etc.
the euro is already a great success in terms of its introduction, the emissions it produces, the consolidation of an excellent economic situation in europe and the prospects for the future.
just as a significant and sustainable increase in the level of employment is one of the key priorities of the employment strategy, so too is the quality of jobs.
question no 44 by mr claude turmes (h-0355/00) subject: state aid to nuclear energy given that the rules of the common market in electricity which came into force last february have the effect of subjecting the production of electricity as a whole to the rules of the internal market and that, under article 92 of the eaec treaty, electricity is not among the products to which the provisions relating to the nuclear common market apply, does the commission agree that electricity produced from nuclear energy is now subject to the same rules as all other forms of electricity?
i'm very sensitive to environmental requirements.
i was already a member of the previous commission when i proposed the directive on the taxation of energy products, and i am trying to do the same in the prodi commission.
the draft new framework for state aid for the environment is very flexible as regards the granting of aid to renewable energy.
i think that it cannot therefore be said that the commission is prohibiting aid for renewable energy.
there is competition, let me say again, not only between renewable energy on the one hand and conventional energy on the other, but also within renewable energy itself in its various forms.
the support for these sources of energy may also differ from one member state to another.
the report on the reduction of co2 emissions from new passenger cars was approved at first reading with 48 amendments at the first debate in december 1998. the council and the commission accepted some of them in their entirety and others in part.
it is true that the council accepted some amendments which we considered important, but certain aspects of the report and the amendments unanimously approved by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection - and by a large majority in parliament's plenary - also seemed to us to be essential and were not taken up.
the main aim was to include in this plan the reduction of co2 emissions from new vehicles to light commercial vehicles, which are widely used in cities and whose co2 emissions also pollute.
it was also important to preserve something that was now traditional in the position of the environment committee of the european parliament: a certain distrust of voluntary agreements.
the committee on the environment was wary of such voluntary agreements and in another amendment it was asked to draw up a clear legal framework to be used in case the voluntary agreements did not work.
our wish to have a paragraph on stabilising and reducing emissions has finally been fulfilled.
parliament went on to stress that this was very important because the larger and more powerful a vehicle is, the higher the level of emissions, and we felt it was essential to recognise this in one of the annexes; but given that six other elements on the capacity and conditions of the vehicles are present, it seemed to us that we could no longer extend the conciliation procedure.
the process leading to the approval of this proposal is a good example of how the two arms of european legislation can resolve their differences and work together towards the adoption of a serious and effective piece of environmental legislation.
i would like to take this opportunity to thank the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and, in particular, the rapporteur, mrs gonzález álvarez, for her constructive approach.
the adoption of this decision will ensure the effectiveness of the community strategy to reduce co2 emissions from the individual vehicles to be checked and, in particular, it will provide credible data for monitoring the implementation of voluntary agreements with the automotive industry.
this strategy is one of the most concrete actions of the community in reducing co2 emissions from the transport sector.
this will help, as mr savary says, to achieve the objective of sustainable mobility and greater economic and social cohesion in europe.
we therefore consider that while fiscal consolidation should remain a priority, the economic environment - which has improved considerably - should allow us to accelerate consolidation and, at the same time, to undertake structural reforms in the medium term.
there is also an urgent need to liberalise telecommunications and energy markets, and not all countries are doing so in the same way.
this is precisely to consider profound tax reforms that contribute to a more favourable environment for our economy, for the enterprise initiative, to free up resources and promote them through taxation in an area where we have committed ourselves in a priority way: to be up to date and competitive in the more advanced levels of the information society and in the application of new technologies.
strangely enough, the environment committee has not issued any opinion on the high-speed rail system, although environmental aspects are not mentioned at all.
we urge the mugabe government to accept a sustainable pluralism and this is also the reason why we are sending observers.
- question no 14 by mr pat the cope gallagher (h-0390/00) subject: european charter for small enterprises in the context of creating an economic environment conducive to business creation and encouraging innovation, the european council has called for the establishment of a european charter for small enterprises.
among the problems which are unfortunately of current relevance, we cannot fail to mention those which concern violence against women: violence in the family environment, in armed conflicts and - increasing in recent years - trafficking in women.
the aim is therefore to adapt measures that will have a positive impact on the economic and social environment in strict compliance with scientific advice.
the environmental conditions in the densely populated regions where this cloves, the galicia rias, are reared and bred do not allow it to reach the 40 mm required by the regulation we are going to amend today.
if the fishermen wait for the cloves to reach this size, the mortality rate will be enormous, and it will not be their fault, but environmental conditions.
reports from fao and environmental organisations put the percentage of this production destined for destruction at global level at up to 70%.
but i would remind you that even in countries with very high growth rates and a very competitive environment, such as the united states of america or some european countries like britain, we have high rates of poverty, a large number of excluded people and very acute social problems.
- question no 36 by anneli hulthén (h-0448/00) is hereby referred to as: subject: measures to encourage the development of gas vehicles the new exhaust gas provisions will come into force in the european union in 2006. the emissions of hydrocarbons, in particular methane, will then be specified.
in gas vehicles, emissions are lower for most hydrocarbons, except for methane, but the amount of methane emitted is negligible compared to the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions that is achieved by replacing petrol with natural gas (or biogas).
does the commission consider it appropriate to provide for derogations from the already established exhaust gas standards in order to allow the sale of light gas vehicles to continue after 2006, or does it consider that new provisions should be introduced for gas vehicles to ensure that compliance with emission standards is not made more difficult than for petrol vehicles (while obviously excluding a higher level of regulated substances emissions than for petrol vehicles, for example, on a similar basis to the one governing the eev (enhanced environmentally friendly vehicle) levels for heavy-duty vehicles)?
however, gas vehicles have high methane emissions.
methane emissions cannot be ignored in the context of european climate change policy.
because of their methane emissions, passenger cars or light commercial vehicles using natural gas do not now appear to be able to meet the 2006 emission limits for all hydrocarbons - that is, methane plus non-methane hydrocarbons.
technical developments in the field of catalytic reduction of methane emissions remain possible but their effectiveness and cost have yet to be determined.
the commission is currently studying the possibility of an improved environmental standard for light commercial vehicles to combat traditional pollutants and possibly also the greenhouse effect.
as with heavy goods vehicles, the concept of vehicles meeting improved environmental standards aims at technology and fuel neutrality in order to promote the best available technology in each case.
this is a rather technical problem and i am prepared to bring it up with the commission and in the technical discussions of the motor vehicle emissions group to determine the most appropriate course of action.
mr president, i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of putting forward a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
all of this shows that the commission has worked with professionalism and a lot of energy and that the connect initiative meets the objectives set by the european parliament in this area.
- (es) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the dismantling of obsolete nuclear installations and the appropriate treatment and final disposal of the corresponding radioactive waste is a matter of great importance from the industrial and environmental point of view in the debate on the future of the energy supply needed for sustainable development throughout the world.
in this connection, the commission's document on the impact of the nuclear past on the centres linked to the joint research centre, which lays the financial and technical foundations for the dismantling of obsolete nuclear installations and the closure of those still in operation, as well as for the final storage of the radioactive waste already generated and that resulting from the proposed process, should be welcomed.
the commission document has been substantially improved and supplemented after its passage by the industry committee of this parliament, and thanks to the rigorous reports for opinion by the budgets and environment committees.
- (es) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, on 17 may i put an oral question on behalf of the committee i chair, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, to the council and the commission, before the conclusion - i would say happy - of the agreement between the european union and china on china's accession to the world trade organization.
secondly, this agreement is positive because it will bring economic, social, environmental and even geopolitical benefits to china, the world in general and the european union in particular.
what we find particularly positive is the opening up of financial services, telecommunications and insurance, which will undoubtedly create opportunities for our economic operators, as will the gradual opening up of energy markets in china, which will bring, in addition to certain economic benefits, greater respect for environmental standards by that country.
this is already a positive point in itself and will introduce china into a new, different dynamic, strengthening ties with the rest of the world, while ensuring that we respect human rights, social rights and environmental rights.
in this respect, i would like to say that this will not be without difficulty, because the position of the commission and the council, which parliament supports, includes the fundamental respect for a minimum of fundamental social and environmental rights which will paradoxically be more difficult to accept when china becomes a full member of the world trade organisation.
question no 3 by mrs nuala ahern (h-0446/00) subject: draft eu common position for the ospar convention meeting what are the negotiations under way within the troika for the presentation of an eu common position on the control of the discharge of toxic and radioactive waste into the marine environment for the ospar convention meeting in copenhagen this month?
- (pt) neither ireland nor denmark has so far submitted any proposal to the council of the european union concerning radioactive waste.
the link between our economic activity and the increase in pollution, the greenhouse effect and the initiation of climate change, calls for us to ratify immediately the kyoto protocols on the reduction of emissions of the gases which cause this effect.
it is paradoxical to advise the reconstruction of central america in an environmentally friendly manner, according to the model of sustainable development, without changing the economic relations with these countries.
this action will allow for synergy between the various forms of aid and ensure that the effort made is not limited to reconstruction - otherwise nothing would change - but that it is transformed into an opportunity for regional integration, harmonious and sustainable development, thus creating wealth and general welfare, and for the consolidation of the democratization of those countries which have just ended years of violence and conflict.
finally, i would like to thank all the members of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy and its secretariat, as well as the committee on budgets, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy and the committee on development and cooperation for their valuable and warm collaboration.
the devastating impact of the hurricane was fuelled by deforestation and the lack of adequate flood control systems, which once again shows that environmental degradation hits the poorest hardest and highlights the intrinsic link between poverty and environmental degradation.
for those of us who, like myself, make solidarity the leitmotif of our political action, solidarity is important, but also the effectiveness, sustainability of programmes and the implementation of policies where we act, because they help latin american friendly societies to achieve higher levels of development and social justice.
the programme is based on the principle of sustainable development, as was emphasised by several speakers.
a first report on the commission's activities was distributed to the parliamentary committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
thirdly, greater attention must be paid to sustainable transport.
fifthly, the problem of waste and solid waste management must be tackled.
this would entail significant environmental damage, serious risks of depopulation and serious problems in terms of land management.
these concerns and demands, which we have echoed in the committee on agriculture and the political groups in the european parliament, are aimed at finding a solution providing for direct income support for producers in order to prevent environmental damage through the conservation of crops, to avoid depopulation and to preserve primary and secondary processing industries in less-favoured areas.
and the consequences for many regions of the union will be irreparable, both from a socioeconomic and environmental point of view.
secondly, in line with the assessment of the agricultural sector, particularly the agricultural sector, it should be noted that the sense of responsibility for the environment is much stronger than it was ten years ago.
it is an economic sector, but with a much greater environmental responsibility than it was ten years ago.
when some say that this production is absolutely necessary for the protection of the landscape and the environment, especially in dry regions, then this is an ideal situation to resort to environmental protection measures.
it is precisely for this purpose that we have increased the resources for encouraging environmental protection measures in the context of rural development.
however, in my view it is one of the most important committees in this parliament, because it is directly and concretely linked to the european citizens, particularly when dealing with matters such as concern for the environment.
the rapporteur points out that more than 25% of the complaints concern the environment, free movement, social rights of citizens and the market.
sometimes, in the context of environmental problems - which i deal with more because i am a member of the committee on the environment - citizens' groups, residents' associations and others are more concerned about compliance with community law than the administrations themselves, as is shown by the complaints we deal with every day in the committee on petitions, which are no more and no less reflective of the concern of this committee on petitions with regard to the handling of citizens' complaints.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
before i briefly tell you about the recent european council in feira, which i attended with president prodi, who is not with us this afternoon because he is attending a meeting of the new presidency in paris, i would like, on behalf of all my colleagues in the commission, to pay tribute to the important work done by the portuguese government during the six months it has just taken over the presidency of the council, and to the skills and energy it has put into it.
the liberalisation of european energy markets, in particular, must continue and air transport will become more efficient through the creation of what has become known as the single european sky.
the guidelines place particular emphasis on the quality and sustainability of public finances and the need to continue reforming european product, capital and labour markets.
on this point, on the environment, consumer protection and food safety, we are in complete agreement.
in addition to tolerating, and even encouraging, as we know, a climate of intimidation and violence, mugabe has made important errors of judgment.
- question no 2 by mrs marie anne isler béguin (h-0519/00) is hereby referred to as: subject: water transport from france to spain and sustainable management of water resources france is reportedly planning to launch an aqueduct project to transport rhône water to barcelona with the participation of the lyon company.
this project goes against any policy of sustainable management of water resources at the regional level.
does the council not think that such a policy is contrary to the precautionary principle and preventive action in the field of the environment in the treaty establishing the european community (article 174) because it removes the responsibility of consumers of water transported elsewhere?
what initiatives does the council intend to take to ensure that a policy of sustainable management of water resources in the union is developed and that long-distance water transport projects do not endanger the ecological balance of the regions concerned?
(the sitting was suspended at 7.45 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
- (es) energy, and electricity in particular, is obviously an extremely important element of economic activity and social welfare, with a turnover of 150 000 million euros per year.
- (es) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our transeuropean roads and motorways are paralysed daily by millions of lorries, buses and cars, which causes, among other things, considerable time and energy wastage and a serious damage to the environment.
i would like to focus on the application of the precautionary principle and the difficulties that this may represent in this case, which is a problem where the scientific weight is confused and mixed with the emotional weight, and with a long history of missed appointments between the pvc industry and its derivatives and the environmental positions which, of course, also make it rain and shine on the subject of phthalates.
the commission proposal is also based on two decisions of the scientific committee on toxicity, ecotoxicity and the environment.
it seems that the commission has interpreted these decisions according to criteria which, i have no doubt, are well-intentioned but which, at best, can be described as hasty, as the hearing with the scientists responsible for these decisions in the environment committee has shown.
i would remind the house of question no 29 by mr michl ebner (h-0560/00): subject: the alpine corridor, a fragile region the alps are an extremely fragile region, where the environment is increasingly suffering from transit traffic between the countries of central and eastern europe and the mediterranean region (for the last ten years, on the brenner route alone, the volume of transport has increased by an average of 5.8% per year); in 1999, 33 million tonnes of goods were transported along this route).
what does the commission intend to do to reduce the enormous pressure this puts on the environment and the people of this fragile region?
question no 31 by caroline lucas (h-0540/00) subject: developing countries and livestock welfarewhat action is the commission taking, within the framework of the community development programme and through its influence on the world stage, to encourage developing countries not to adopt industrial livestock systems, as these pose serious threats to the fight against poverty, the environment, human health and animal welfare in developing countries?
as regards the problems of industrial activities in the sector, we are working with a group of donors and countries, as i mentioned in my first reply, to promote as sustainable and acceptable development as possible.
that is why i put so much energy, in a preventive way, when we approve the community support frameworks, when we approve the spds, when i meet the ministers who come to see me, or i will see them on the ground, almost every week in a region of europe, to say my commitment to a few principles.
the question of additionality, the question of partnership, the respect of the major policies - we shall discuss this with mrs frassoni later - the respect of the major european policies, particularly in the field of the environment.
question no 36 by monica frassoni, substituted by mr celli (h-0528/00) subject: new structural fund programmes and biodiversity the commission is negotiating new programmes for the 2000-06 structural funds.
on 16 march 2000, the commission drew up a note on biodiversity and the structural funds, taking into account that directive 92/43 oj l 206, 22.7.1992, p.7.
and directive 79/409 oj l 103, 25.4.1979, p. 1. had only been partially transposed by the member states of the european union and that investments from the structural funds could therefore threaten the heritage of biodiversity.
how can the european commission ensure that the biodiversity heritage and the nature 2000 network are protected and not threatened?
what powers does the commission intend to use to ensure that biodiversity areas are not threatened when new programmes are implemented?
mr president, i am glad to have someone to answer this extremely important question which really concerns the coherence of the policies for which the commission is responsible, and in particular the coherence of the implementation of the structural and cohesion fund programmes with other community policies, particularly in the field of environmental protection and improvement.
since my arrival at the college, and because i am in charge of regional policy, but also because i was minister for the environment in my country and have a long-standing passion and commitment to these issues, i have devoted myself to studying these problems of coherence carefully, and always with the same concern for prevention and anticipation.
does the commission consider that the public consultation procedure in this case was appropriate and in accordance with the environmental impact assessment directive?
subject: management of toxic wasteaccording to some accusations made by greek environmental associations, there is currently a rampant landfilling of toxic and dangerous waste in greece.
the disposal of waste generated by lead battery recycling facilities is not subject to any controls; dei capacitors containing appreciable amounts of chlorophen have been abandoned at aspropyrgos; attica has only one incinerator for hospital waste, with a capacity of 0.5 tonnes per day, even though the daily volume of such waste reaches 20 tonnes.
over the past ten years, no significant progress has been made in the management of this waste.
in accordance with article 16 of directive 78/319/eec oj l 84, 31.3.1978, p. 43, 'every three years after the notification of the said directive, member states shall draw up a report on the state of management of toxic and dangerous waste in their territory and shall communicate it to the commission'.
commission - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think there is cause for concern, because we know that there is illegal trade and illegal disposal of hazardous waste in some member states.
of course, the greek government, and perhaps the local authorities, should be asked what has been done with this waste.
question no 44 by anneli hulthén (h-0547/00) subject: pollution of industrial areas we are currently faced with the serious problem of soil pollution from former industrial areas, which is the cause of many difficulties.
of all the environmental issues, the system of co-management and environmental audits is not exactly a very popular topic, but it is a fantastic tool for making progress in the integration of economic activities and environmental protection.
by adopting an environmental management system, companies - whether industrial or service - learn to integrate the environmental factor into the ordinary management of society, discovering the many and important benefits, not only environmental but also economic, that this brings them, among other things, because they improve their competitive position.
i therefore believe that the current revision of this regulation and the incorporation of new elements which are extremely useful for the environmental improvement of processes, services and products is very important.
the main objectives of the amendments, which i took over from parliament's first reading and which were unanimously approved in the environment committee, are to create more incentives for european companies to access the system, to involve stakeholders - particularly workers - to increase reliability vis-à-vis third parties and to improve the transparency of information.
i am referring to amendments nos 5, 6, 10 and 17, which deal with a controversial issue, namely the use of the best available technology as an instrument for improving the environment required of companies wishing to register with emas.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
so i think you will agree with me that, whilst i am absolutely in favour of the development and progress of the integrated pollution control (ippc) directive, this is not the right time and emas is not the right instrument to require the application of the best available technologies for companies wishing to join the system.
in fact, large installations, as stipulated in the ippc directive, will have to be registered in the emas register, because they will have to comply with the existing environmental legislation - amendment no 12 - which logically includes compliance with the ippc directive in the case where this affects companies.
i think that the commission is preparing - and in this respect a comment from mrs wallström would be welcome - a proposal on the inclusion of the environmental criterion as an objective condition as a selection criterion for public contracts, so i think that it is appropriate to wait for the adoption of the proposal.
- (es) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the council has tabled amendments to two regulations, 3528/86 on forest pollution and 2158/92 on fire prevention and control, by means of two regulations, 307 and 308 of 1997, on the basis of article 43 of the old treaty.
the important role of forests in all economic, ecological and social aspects is well known, and the role of forests in protecting soil, climate, water, fauna and flora, maintaining the necessary balances for the development of sustainable agriculture and for the management of rural areas.
as regards pollution, the establishment of monitoring networks is being used to carry out a periodic damage inventory using the same methodology, to carry out intensive and continuous monitoring of forest ecosystems and to develop, through pilot projects, methods of preserving and restoring the affected forests.
the proposal which was unanimously approved in the committee on the environment has been introduced with minor amendments which i would like to see taken into consideration by the commission, as this would allow us not to prolong the process.
it calls for the commission to be assisted by a permanent forestry committee, as it is in many other areas; present an analysis of the application of this regulation in terms of environmental, economic and social aspects and cost-benefit ratio; the amendment includes a reference to the mediterranean forest as a specific ecosystem of the southern countries and for its importance in combating desertification and erosion.
as regards the financial allocation, i have to express a justified doubt: in the period preceding these regulations, the commission proposed eur 40 million for the fight against pollution and eur 70 million for fire prevention.
the commission is currently proposing 34 million for pollution control and 50 million for fire prevention over the next five years.
it has just cut the budget for pollution control by 6 million and for fire prevention by 20 million, without taking account of the increase in the cost of living or the accession of new countries, austria, sweden and finland, which are almost doubling the area of forests.
our proposal would therefore seek to increase the appropriation to 44 million and 77 million respectively for pollution and fires.
one is on air pollution affecting forests, and the other is on fire prevention.
but it turns out that air pollution has also worsened because of acid rain, the higher concentrations of dangerous products in the atmosphere.
in the field of fire prevention, we are also in a much more serious situation, because of climate change and the drought that is affecting many areas of europe.
i would like to say to the commission - and i regret that mrs wallström is not here at the moment - that one of the european union's priorities in relation to the environment should be the fight against pollution and the prevention of fires, but also, and above all, a policy for the protection of the forest.
the most numerous petitions are those on social and environmental issues, which are the most worrying.
in any case, it is necessary to consider the civil and military use of airspace in a flexible way, to improve the efficiency of management and to provide air traffic controllers, who today sometimes face extremely complicated situations, with a more comfortable environment enabling them to do their job better.
since many of you have referred to the title of the item on the agenda, so that you will not waste time on a mistake, i will lose time to make a few clarifications.
secondly, ratification and implementation of the conditions and decisions of the kyoto summit in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and thus climate change and its adverse consequences.
the agenda calls for the report (a5-0139/2000) by mrs peijs, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the communication from the commission to the council, the european parliament, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions on the development of short sea shipping in europe: a dynamic alternative in a sustainable transport chain - second biennial progress report (com (99) 317 - c5-0206/1999 - 1999/2164 (cos)).
the commission report and the rapporteur's report highlight various comparative advantages between the two modes of transport, among which i would highlight, as far as maritime transport is concerned, the reduction in congestion of infrastructure, their lower cost, the reduction in their energy consumption, which implies a reduction in pollutant emissions in, and the improvement of communications with, the peripheral regions of the european union.
the commission presented a report last march setting out a strategy for their sustainable development, which contains several main aspects, among which it is important to highlight the relations of these regions with their geographical environment, which to a certain extent determines their development.
we therefore consider that mrs peijs' report is relevant, especially if it is strengthened by the adoption of my amendment on the inclusion of maritime transport between ports in the outermost regions and the countries in their geographical environment.
the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97).
- the next item is the report (a5-0178/2000) by mr di lello finuoli, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the initiative of the kingdom of denmark with a view to adopting a council framework decision on the fight against serious crime against the environment (5343/2000 - c5-0078/2000 - 2000/0801 (cns)).
- (es) mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the danish government on taking the initiative to propose the council framework decision we are now discussing, which aims to give us more effective instruments to combat serious environmental offences.
we were pleased that with this framework decision the european union is supporting the convention on the protection of the environment through criminal law, which was approved by the council of europe in 1998 and has not yet been sufficiently ratified to enter into force.
first, it is recognised that a country may act against offenders when the environmental offence has been committed on its own territory, but also in another country if the latter suffers the consequences.
thirdly, this proposal identifies legal persons as responsible, the vast majority of serious environmental offences being committed by legal persons rather than natural persons.
i welcome the danish government's initiative, based on the new procedure recognised in the treaty of amsterdam, to examine a matter aimed at improving and strengthening environmental protection at community level, protection which of course cannot have any frontiers within the union.
for a while, my task was to ensure that the commission gave proper treatment to european forests, and i saw the difficulties in giving a precise environmental dimension to the diversity of treatments.
the first difficulty in actually implementing this proposal is to classify environmental offences in the light of the diversity of the union's territory.
we have seen that it is difficult to find the real perpetrators of many large-scale environmental attacks, but, in addition, the interplay of legal responsibilities of the entities which, in the end, may appear to be responsible makes the actual criminal prosecution of these attacks extremely difficult.
of these one thousand complaints, 40% concern breaches of community environmental law.
in analysing these complaints, we have seen the need for the proposal we are considering, the council proposal at the request of the kingdom of denmark, and for the approval of the report by mr di lello finuoli and mrs schörling of the committee on the environment.
first, the request for the signature of the council of europe convention on the protection of the environment, but also for its ratification.
in any case, mr president, it exists, even in the context of offences against the environment which appear to be accidental.
thirdly, we must restore the environment.
the members of the committee on petitions are aware of the terrible frustration of citizens who take the trouble to report environmental crime and who find that in europe we are unable to help them improve the environment in which they live and prevent such crime.
the first part aims to ensure that any serious and damaging breach of environmental law throughout the community is followed by effective and dissuasive penalties.
there are a number of arguments for dealing with issues of mutual legal assistance and improving cooperation in the field of justice in a comprehensive approach that goes beyond environmental law.
improving cooperation in criminal matters is already the subject of several initiatives and proposals which go beyond criminal law in environmental matters.
specific regulations, such as those in environmental law, should be the exception only when necessary.
as a legal asset, the environment is not yet protected by criminal law in all member states.
while some member states have incorporated certain environmental offences into their criminal law, this is not the case in other member states.
a serious breach of environmental law is therefore not punishable in every member state.
this is of course an encouragement to cross-border environmental crime.
the criminal deficit in the field of environmental protection cannot of course be eliminated by criminal measures alone, but even on this point the framework decision could well give a new impetus.
the question of whether the existing community law at the level of the first pillar already contains sufficient obligations has already been addressed in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and in the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs.
the danish initiative provides that legal persons must be held responsible for serious environmental crimes.
as regards financial sanctions, i would like to stress once again the importance of the green paper on environmental responsibility published by the commission a few months ago, in which the environmental damage caused is finally identified.
regardless of this, those responsible for environmental crimes should naturally be subject to criminal law.
in conclusion, i can say on behalf of the commission that we unfortunately have to introduce infringement procedures in environmental law against member states once again and that a very large number of these infringement procedures are pending in this sector.
unfortunately, this gives the impression that many member states do not take environmental protection and environmental law very seriously.
i therefore think it is logical that sustainable economic development for the area should be our main objective.
as you know, meda also includes a short- and medium-term action programme for the environment, which seeks to reverse the trend towards environmental degradation in the area.
the application of these instruments must take account of the achievement of labour, social and environmental standards, or else we can say that these instruments do not help development but are subsidies to individuals.
the media and political circles are warning these days that the palestinians could waste the historic opportunity of having as an interlocutor a prime minister like ehud barak, who has dared to bring the question of jerusalem to the table, without any reservations.
the european council will be meeting on 28 september 2000 at the 'consumers' internal market' on services of general interest - i would have the honour of chairing this council; on 2 october 2000 in luxembourg at the transport council on maritime safety; 10 october 2000 on noise protection in the context of the environment council; 17 october 2000, also in luxembourg: information and consultation of workers on employment in the context of the employment and social policy council.
this is important if we want to have a public service in europe in a frankly competitive environment - and we are seeing this from the audience of publicly owned services - and also for the sake of the private audiovisual service.
these are mutually beneficial agreements which have been modified over time to meet the requirements of sustainable exploitation of the resource and to support the efforts of the third country authorities to develop their own fisheries sector.
- mr president, i shall briefly refer to four subjects which were the subject of much debate in the committee on the environment.
we are basically in favour of the proposal of the committee on the environment and its rapporteur.
good environmental quality and good health are closely linked.
question no 42 by mr john bowis (h-0629/00) subject: scientific opinion on phthalates will the commission finally disseminate the statement of 25 november 1999 by the scientific committee on toxicity, ecotoxicity and the environment (cstee) which sets out the opinion of this committee on the commission's misinterpretation of the scientific opinion on phthalates, which was mentioned in the minutes of the meeting of the scientific steering committee on 10 december 1999?
question no 52 by mrs glenys kinnock (h-0649/00) subject: european non-governmental organizations working in the social field the role of european ngos in the social field, which represents an important link between european citizens, the commission, parliament and the council, is increasingly taken into account in areas such as social policy, trade, development and the environment.
this dossier, together with an application for a 'certificate of food specificity', was prepared by the association for virgin honey and transmitted by the italian ministry of the environment to the commission on 8 september 1995. the commission's positive opinion, which was obtained only thanks to a series of interventions by the italian government and minister de castro in particular, was not received until august 1999. since then, the association has received no news.
it is about ensuring sustainability in all its three dimensions.
we want to reconcile the economic, social and environmental objectives in these areas.
finally, i would like to highlight what makes this directive a real tool for sustainable development: the balance achieved in considering water as an economic resource of high value and as an essential element for the conservation of europe's ecosystems.
- mr president, commissioner, i think we are all convinced that we have an obligation, a duty to protect the environment and to contribute to sustainable development through an environmental policy which, following the treaty of amsterdam, has become even more important.
i agree with the commission in drawing up stricter noise standards and also in establishing transitional provisions to meet the needs of regions facing noise pollution problems.
it would also be important to ask the commission to come forward with proposals to introduce economic incentives to reduce the negative effects on the environment.
finally, i would like to stress the importance of efficient management of the air transport industry in reducing pollution, with particular emphasis on improving airport management and a clear commitment to the creation of a single european sky, which would also undoubtedly help to reduce environmental pollution.
the report calls on the sporting movement, the member states and the european union to join forces to ensure that sport, in its new economic environment, continues to play a role as an instrument of education and integration based on the values of fair play, equal opportunities and the promotion of merit.
russia is ultimately responsible for devising and implementing a plan to manage its nuclear waste and spent fuel, and the resolutions, therefore, quite rightly call upon russia to use all available resources, including its own specialists.
improved radioactive waste management in north-west russia is one of the explicit priorities included in the new tacis regulation covering the next seven years.
besides the submarines, spent fuel from a number of nuclear-powered icebreakers also adds to the ecological risk.
the commission is also involved in a number of studies aiming to improve radioactive-waste management in north-west russia.
this agreement, known as the 'multilateral nuclear environmental programme', is intended to overcome obstacles to international aid stemming, for instance, from tax exemptions and nuclear liability.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am grateful for the opportunity to address the house after two hours yesterday in the energy committee.
this obviously leads us to a debate on our increasing dependence on energy from abroad and therefore on our vulnerability in this respect.
although the european union's competence in the field of energy is limited, we cannot stand by and let this situation deteriorate.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of pollution by nitrates and their salts is a very good one.
a little over a year ago, when i first contacted this house as future energy commissioner, i made it very clear that there were, from the commission's point of view, two crucial elements to be considered in the coming years.
on the one hand, to promote strategically the dialogue on energy policy in international forums, and especially with the large producing and consuming countries, and on the other hand, to adapt our priorities so as to be able to better cope with changes in the face of adverse energy circumstances such as the present one.
the emission conditions in the energy sector, which will be adopted before the end of the year.
it will, i hope, be the starting point for a broad dialogue, a broad debate with the interested parties to examine the role and place of each of the energy sources in the next twenty or thirty years.
for both economic and environmental reasons, member states should not yield to pressure and change their overall mediumterm oil policy.
but let us not be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about short-term measures which can alleviate the present crisis, but which in no way negate the undeniable fact that our economy is vulnerable to energy fluctuations.
we must tackle this dependence and this situation with two fundamental lines of action: diversification of our sources and energy saving.
i want to make it very clear that when it comes to diversifying sources, renewable energy has a clear and decisive contribution to make for the future, but we cannot give up any type of energy at the moment.
demand management and energy saving is the other long-term focus.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of the community's energy supply.
unfortunately, we do not have the panacea to solve this situation in the short term, but fortunately the current crisis has shown us the only way to overcome it: to foster competition in our markets, to assert our common presence at international level, to coordinate our actions, to adapt our priorities to the new energy objectives and to act together in the fiscal field.
moreover, this is a policy which requires a great deal of perseverance and also investment and resources, because the problem with regard to energy is that we only remember santa barbara when it thunders, that is to say, when conditions are normal, as mrs de palacio has pointed out, consumption tends to increase, and in a society in which the car is king, this implies a tendency towards greater dependence.
in the medium and long term, i believe that the catalogue presented by the commissioner, in line with what the commission has already proposed, must be maintained, must be followed and must be strengthened, by exploiting the development of renewable energies, reducing dependence on oil, for example by breaking down the compartmentalization of certain national markets, and i am thinking, for example, of the development of railways as a complement and an alternative to the development of road transport.
and above all we must try to get our governments to react together and finally draw up a european energy policy which responds to the common economic and social area.
we have been working since november at the directorate-general for energy on the medium-term strategy for energy, and we will therefore be able to present a quality document, i hope, in the coming weeks.
we are looking for a medium-term vision that is combined with a review of the union's transport policy because, undoubtedly, the energy component has a lot to do with transport.
that requires coordinating energy policy.
i would like to see us try to make it community-wide, but at least we must coordinate the energy policy of the member states.
we must also make further progress in transport policies and avoid, in the wake of a crisis such as the present one, making a sudden change in our transport policy and our energy policy, which have been established over the last few years.
energy and transport policies are medium- and long-term policies which cannot be changed under the pressure of very specific circumstances, which i am sure will change in a year and a half or two years' time, although we will certainly not be able to recover the price of $10 a barrel.
we must work on issues such as energy saving, renewable energy, biofuel research and the use of biomass.
the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0215/00) by mr wijkman, on behalf of parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the commission's opinion on the european parliament's amendments to the council's common position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on measures to promote the full integration of the environmental dimension in the development process of developing countries (amending the commission proposal) (c5-0283/2000 - 1999/0020 (cod)).
it considers it a valuable instrument for carrying out strategic and pilot activities in the field of the environment.
fortunately, our activities in the field of environment and development are not limited to actions funded under this regulation.
we are mainstreaming the environment in everything we do.
hence, we intend to use it in a strategic fashion focusing, in particular, on support for the various international environmental conventions.
i am confident that the regulation will provide us with a useful tool for ensuring that the environmental dimension is fully taken into account in our development cooperation.
mr president, with this report on the regulation on the conservation and sustainable management of tropical and other forests in developing countries, as with the previous report by mr wijkman, parliament is today, and tomorrow with the corresponding vote, completing the exercise, for the first time, of its new powers of codecision in the field of cooperation and development.
tropical forests and their various functions and benefits for humanity can make a significant contribution to the achievement of the union's objectives, not only in terms of development and the environment, but also in its objectives of combating poverty and sustainable economic and social development.
this regulation provides for the provision by the european union of appropriate financial and technical assistance to promote the conservation and sustainable management of tropical and other forests in developing countries, so that forests can fulfil their functions as generators of wealth and social development with the sustainable environmental criteria expected of them at local, national and global levels.
the regulation states that sustainable forest management must seek to improve the living conditions and well-being of populations within the limits of the ecosystems' capacity, while maintaining the natural heritage and its biological diversity.
as with the environment budget heading we intend to use the tropical forests budget heading strategically and in coordination with actions funded under the other instruments at the disposal of the commission.
this area, as has been clearly expressed in these contributions, is crucial for biodiversity, for climate, and for our conscience in handing over an earth that has these qualities to future generations.
they are active in peace organizations, development cooperation, gender equality, ecology, the environment.
president nicole fontaine herself said a few days ago in strasbourg: 'to all the democratic men and women in spain and especially in the spanish basque country who still continue to believe, despite this climate of terror, in political dialogue.
the results of the three systems in terms of total external costs in terms of traffic congestion, accidents, noise, air pollution and climate change differ considerably: eur 74 000 for the ship, eur 130 000 for the lorry and eur 99 000 for the railway.
the conclusion we must support - as i understand it - is that maritime transport is the most appropriate solution and that we must give priority to allocating our public resources to this and we must select those ports which are the most important - as mr piecyk has said, and i agree with him on this - and those which comply with intermodality and, above all, those which allow us to save the most in environmental costs.
we could take another example for energy policy, as i said: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
it is essential for a problem like this, which has no easy solution, to create a favourable environment for the work of industries and to have competitive economic structures.
however, i noted also the objections in council to the total prohibition of dilution, but i am convinced that an acceptable solution can be found in order to prevent feedingstuffs becoming the waste bucket for contaminants.
– i would like to thank the committee on agriculture and rural development, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and their rapporteurs, mr graefe zu baringdorf and mrs roth-behrendt, for having examined the commission proposal and delivered their opinion on it and to the members of parliament who have spoken this morning and have warmly welcomed these proposals.
i would like to thank mrs dybkjær again, because i think she has done an excellent and thorough job in her report, which will be very useful to us in our next report, and in particular the french presidency and mrs pery for the great energy they have shown on equality issues during their presidency.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
however, the obvious cannot be denied and it must be remembered that the treaty does not prohibit all types of aid, but that certain types of aid which pursue objectives such as social cohesion, regional cohesion, the environment, etc., must be allowed.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
and when there is a legislative consultation on social, cultural or environmental matters - the commissioner will admit that i am right - we, the budget commissioner, the finance ministers and the members of the budget committee, come together to pray together so that no financial misconduct is committed.
an information campaign to promote the principle on which the cfp is based - the sustainable exploitation of marine resources - is essential.
a joint statement should be read out by the representative of france, on behalf of the presidency, on the meetings in support of the peace process scheduled for 24 october 2000 in bogotá, and should, in particular, stress the need to support the rule of law, to combat the causes of violence, to increase aid to victims of violence, to defend human rights, to protect biodiversity and the environment, and to strengthen regional consultation and cooperation.
the coasts of corsica and sardinia along the bouches have a remarkable ecological and heritage value, recognised by the franco-italian agreement of 1993 which prohibits the passage of the merchant fleet of the two countries concerned carrying dangerous goods.
can the council commit itself to extending this ban to all vessels, irrespective of their nationality, and to establishing binding measures to protect the marine environment?
the idea behind this, beyond our landscape and exceptional climate, is the social and economic reality of some of the least developed regions in the union, with the highest unemployment rates, with enormous structural difficulties that hamper our development.
to do this, they need a specific treatment, which is expressed through a will to sustainability in a series of measures.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european network of national authorities for the protection of the environment.
i must give special thanks to the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and its rapporteur, john bowis, for producing this opinion with such a degree of consensus and pay particular tribute to him and to the other members of this house who have taken the time to discuss these issues with me and with my officials.
in conclusion, i would like to express my appreciation to you, mr president, your rapporteur, mr bowis, the shadow rapporteurs, the committee on the environment and the other committees who have contributed, and the house as a whole for bringing to a close this chapter in our collective endeavours towards improving europe's food safety regime.
- mr president, the rapporteur rightly states that climate change is one of the most serious environmental problems we are facing.
although three years have passed since the kyoto conference and the commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 8% compared with 1990 levels, the european environment agency reminds us that, without very concrete policy measures, such reductions will not be real, but on the contrary: greenhouse gas emissions will increase by 6%.
it should be noted that transport emissions may be the fastest growing, reaching up to 39% in 2010. i also share the rapporteur's concern that concrete measures and policies should be given priority over emissions trading, which should be complementary to them.
i do not share mr liese's belief in and enthusiasm for nuclear energy.
i think, like the member who spoke earlier, that nuclear energy has unresolved problems and i am reassured that the commissioner says that nuclear energy will not be strengthened in the proposals under consideration.
in any case, we believe that the priority for the european union should be concrete policies and measures and the definition of a european programme on climate change with concrete objectives and targets, and we are concerned that this is not the philosophy that will be defended at the next meeting in the hague.
i would like to conclude, mr president, by recalling, as other members have done, the floods in spain and italy, which, like other so-called natural disasters, seem to us to be an expression of climate change.
with regard to the second report, i believe that emissions trading should be approached as an instrument to facilitate compliance with the obligations of the kyoto protocol.
i think that from both an economic and an environmental point of view we must take an active approach.
the reasons for this include the realistic view that this will allow the achievement of short-term environmental objectives by setting concrete reduction levels as well as compliance timetables.
it is also an opportunity to encourage research and development of new technologies in pollution control, contrary to the opinion of those who believe that this mechanism is a way to perpetuate the interests of large polluting companies.
if this tool is applied correctly, pollution will become more and more expensive, and the market will take care of leaving out products obtained in the least clean way.
the fact that emissions are traded also gives greater control over emissions and documentation.
this will encourage the development of activities with a lower environmental impact.
it is essential to develop this mechanism in a transparent manner and as an indivisible part of the package of measures to be taken by the member states within the european strategy to combat climate change.
- mr president, as some speakers have already pointed out, in the tragic coincidence of this debate - and i congratulate the rapporteur, mr moreira da silva, on his report - nature was reminding us of the consequences of climate change.
is this a consequence of the greenhouse effect and climate change or not?
other causes - also caused by human greed - such as the construction of streams and torrents, which further exacerbate the damaging effects of these natural disasters, are also linked to this greenhouse effect.
that is why i am also one of the signatories of a motion for a resolution which proposes not only the rapid implementation of the measures contained in the kyoto protocol to combat climate change, but also other types of preventive measures, the continuation and deepening of infrastructure construction, for example, by preventing the effects of floods and, finally, also aid for all those affected, since they are not responsible for the short- or long-term damage caused by human speculation and greed.
what we do know is that a number of man-made chemicals that have been released into the environment, as well as a few natural ones, have the potential to disrupt the endocrine system of animals, including humans.
this principle and the need to develop quick and effective risk management strategies in relation to endocrine disrupters was also stressed by the environmental council in its conclusions of 30 march.
i am pleased to inform you that endocrine disruption has been highlighted as a priority research topic in the latest revision of the relevant programmes concerning human health and the environment.
mr commissioner, this sector seems to be the currency of exchange used in the preferential agreements with third countries and in the successive revisions of their protocols, with the added disadvantage that these countries produce without the economic, social and environmental conditions we have in europe, but with the same timetables as our producing areas.
- the next item is the report (a5-0267/2000) by mrs montfort, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on a multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship, 2001-2005 (com (2000) 256 - c5-0274/2000 - 2000/0107 (cns)).
small firms suffer most from the constraints on the entrepreneurial environment.
enlargement and sustainability are priorities in all our work.
mr president, european companies need a good business environment to develop.
that is why, when we are asked in tampere for common rules on prosecution and sanctions for crimes against the environment, drug trafficking, human trafficking, child pornography, terrorism or cybercrime, it is because we recognise that this is a supranational criminal activity that must be addressed with supranational instruments.
with these european investment bank loans we are supporting investment for turkish industry and its infrastructure in transport, energy and telecommunications.
we cannot and must not waste our human resources, our agricultural, industrial and craft resources, which, together with products as vital as oil, gas and new technologies, must be the basic instruments for the development of a mediterranean society that is much more balanced, fair and competitive than the present one.
secondly, i think we are also forgetting another important issue, which is the environment.
europe has not pursued a policy on desertification or water that benefits the mediterranean countries, and we must think about pursuing a mediterranean environmental policy that takes account of the coordinates, the logics and even the climatic diversity of the mediterranean.
this is a waste of land and a policy of environmental dumping which is totally unacceptable.
nor can we expect european citizens to be good at their environmental policy and not apply this policy to other countries.
question no 4 by nuala ahern (h-0820/00) subject: safe transport of radioactive products within the eu what consultations were held between the council of ministers (transport, environment and energy), the french presidency and the working party of experts on the safe transport of radioactive products within the eu, before or after the resumption, announced in september 2000 by the german government, of the transfrontier transport of radioactive products suspended in may 1998 for safety reasons?
the agreement will also take into account the need to ensure sustainable exploitation of resources and the need to contribute to the development of the moroccan fisheries sector.
- question no 14 by mr papayannakis (h-0855/00): subject: energy policy of the european union the commissioner responsible for energy recently said that the energy question in europe is not a community responsibility but a national one.
at the beginning of the preparatory discussions for the 1996-97 intergovernmental conference, it was proposed to incorporate specific provisions into the amsterdam treaty which would pave the way for a common energy policy.
), they will not prevent the increase in the union's overall energy dependence (gas, oil, coal and uranium combined) in the future, as all the forecasts indicate.
since the evolution of the oil market requires the union to adopt a more dynamic energy policy, how does the council intend to reduce the dependence of the european economy on oil?
have concrete measures been taken (security of supply, energy efficiency) to make the member states' economies less sensitive to external crises?
what are the council's short, medium and long-term means and priorities with regard to energy efficiency and energy saving?
i do believe that we must seek the conditions for a better common expression on energy issues in general, because these are indeed problems which should be dealt with at least in coordination within the european union.
at the same time, i must remind you of the european union's position towards cuba, as set out by the council on 2 december 1996, which is to encourage a process of peaceful transition towards democratic pluralism, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and a sustainable raising and improvement of the living standards of the cuban people; the commission has not yet taken a decision on the nature of the scheme, but there may be some encouragement or incentive to change the scheme's practices.
the committee on the environment of the european parliament has found it to be a good proposal in general.
this report was adopted by a large majority in the environment committee of parliament and i shall therefore defend the result of the vote in that committee.
the proposals adopted by the committee on the environment are to strengthen transparency and consumer information, to ensure that products are recovered even if they are already in the hands of consumers, to limit professional secrecy to the bare minimum, to define more clearly what is a safe product and what is a dangerous product, to include the safety control of the installation and maintenance of products - because sometimes there can be cases of unsafe products for consumers in that installation and maintenance - to include the precautionary principle, a very interesting principle that is not used much in the european union - otherwise we would not have things like the cow principle, which will be discussed this afternoon, the dioxin issue or any other issue related to genetically modified products - to ensure a certain harmonisation of monitoring and monitoring programmes - which is important in the member states to have a certain equality in general and monitoring systems - and to provide information in terms of the products they buy, in the language of the country where they are purchased, to consumers.
mr president, unfortunately we cannot accept some amendments which were first tabled in the committee on the environment and which are now tabled here and which go against these principles.
some amendments, such as amendments nos 1 and 18, deal with issues which are of fundamental concern to the united kingdom and it must be said that all the groups in the united kingdom, whether socialist, people's or green, have strongly defended them and they have been adopted in the committee on the environment.
we have a number of colleagues from other countries who are less aware of the concerns of our colleagues in the united kingdom, but those amendments were adopted in the committee on the environment and that is why i have to explain them.
i believe that the committee on the environment has produced a report which seeks to look more closely at consumer rights and consumer safety.
in view of what has happened, particularly in the food sector, in recent years, i think this is a very important directive and i hope that it will be adopted by a large majority of this parliament, although, as i said earlier, some of the amendments tabled are contrary to the spirit adopted by the committee on the environment.
in these circumstances, the eurogroup, as the main body responsible for economic policy coordination, is considering going further in terms of our fiscal obligations and, above all, improving the quality and sustainability of public finances, which will undoubtedly mean an improvement in the stability and growth pact and the treatment of more precise and more substantive issues.
- question no 24 by mr papayannakis (h-0787/00) subject: air pollution in greeceit is clear from the evaluations carried out by greenpeace, using the methodology used by the who and the most recent data (1997-99) on air pollution as measured by the competent state services, that its cost in human lives is comparable in greece to that of road accidents (1 342 and 7 247 additional deaths caused each year by the short and long term impacts respectively), while its social cost is estimated at dra 548 billion and dra 2 096 billion respectively because of the short and long term impacts.
in athens in particular, there are high concentrations of particulate matter, ozone, carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide and sulphur dioxide.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the sixth conference of the parties on climate change is currently meeting in the hague.
a summit to curb climate change and where the kyoto protocol will be put to the test.
the latest findings by scientists from the intergovernmental panel on climate change also warn of the alarming effects of climate change.
renewable energy is not going to be the panacea to solve this problem.
but there is no doubt that they can do a great deal to reduce it and also to diversify energy sources and reduce our dependence on hydrocarbons, which would otherwise be good for us.
i would like to stress the rightness of the commission and of the commissioner in particular in proposing this directive for the promotion of renewable sources of electricity.
i am referring specifically to the draft guidelines or aid for the environment.
this document is unacceptable because of the treatment it proposes to give operating aid to renewable energy and cogeneration, since it does not recognise the different degree of competitiveness between these renewable and conventional energy sources.
nor does it recognise the external costs avoided by this type of energy.
we believe that if these guidelines are not changed, the environmental impact will be very negative.
the renewable energy directive is a commitment to the future and an investment in the environment.
and investments in the environment are neither free nor competitive.
i am convinced that in all matters relating to energy we must be aware that we either improve our sources or render planet earth uninhabitable within a few generations.
i think it is essential that we ensure that this type of source is supported for a considerable period of time, thus enabling our industry to invest decisively and in the long term in this alternative energy source.
i believe that a stable framework for renewable energy sources should be guaranteed for a minimum of ten years; it is a proposal that we should all support.
as regards our objectives in this area, we have to listen to the citizens and go beyond the commission's proposal of 21%, which i think is very positive overall, and increase the renewable share of the total electricity produced.
this binding nature is also essential to demonstrate that the european union takes its international commitments seriously, also in environmental matters.
i think we have a good charter and this council is going to waste a great political opportunity, because in the proposal you make, mr president, the proclamation - what my friend and president mr poettering calls the 'feierliche proklamation' - is a flip-flop proclamation.
however, and especially in this area, it is the public institutions which have the inescapable duty to respond to the demands of citizens by developing legislative initiatives to ensure the preservation of the environment and an optimum level of maritime safety, as well as the obligation to ensure that the established rules are properly complied with.
the proposal has been examined by the committee on regional policy and transport, with the support of the environment and industry committees.
- madam president, our group supports the excellent report by mr trakatellis and also the work of the committee on the environment; we believe that, as mr trakatellis said very well, we need to have a foresight in order to be able to make progress in implementing the programmes under way.
because it was not waste, scrap or scrap, which was discussed in amsterdam and on which no agreement was reached.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european environment agency is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area.
the money must be used in a way that increases employment, and it must be used - this is the third mainstreaming - in a way that improves the environment.
i would also point out that in the agricultural policy the 4.5 billion euros we have already discussed this morning for the promotion of rural development include a great many measures to promote environmental protection.
in addition, there is something in agricultural policy in this area which is not at all common in environmental policy and which can occasionally be criticized by fundamentalists: the absence of measures which damage the environment is compensated for.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the environment.
moreover, the production of organic bananas is also eligible under the applicable agri-environmental measures.
but the honourable member is entirely right that there are issues like the environment, trade, landmines, extraterritoriality and legislation where we take a rather different position from the united states.
the 1992 directive introduced a mandatory exemption for fuels used in international aviation and at the same time provided for the revision of the exemption to take account of environmental costs.
in the light of the above, an increase in coke imports from third countries can be expected, which will result in an increase in sulphuric acid emissions.
if so, is the commission's decision in line with community policies on energy and environmental protection?
- question no 46 by mr antonios trakatellis (h-0875/00) subject: thessaloniki metro unfortunately, the project for the construction of the thessaloniki metro, an infrastructure essential to the sustainable urban and economic development of the city, has been buried for more than eight years in the files of the second csf, in the obituaries of the local press and among the projects of the competent minister for public works and spatial planning.
we have to ensure that there is an environment conducive to these changes in europe.
- mr president, the citizens of europe are undoubtedly demanding a more favourable environment and we in this house must make these expectations heard and make it possible to meet them.
the multiannual programme for sustainable urban development 2000-2004 is an appropriate instrument for this purpose, and the implementation of agenda 21 is an excellent means of coordinating and developing actions.
in many member states, land use planning continues to disregard the capacity of the environment, cultural heritage and the resources of local authorities to meet their environmental responsibilities.
the report on sustainable cities also highlights the existence of significant shortcomings in the practice and development of environmental legislation at local level.
and finally, that public health and the environment must take precedence over other considerations, especially economic ones.
i particularly agree with your view that territorial policy instruments should be geared to sustainability, to strengthening economic and social cohesion and, above all, to creating qualified, economically viable and lasting jobs.
but i have to say that not everything is going to be negative and in this sense we welcome the acceptance of our proposal to introduce also measures relating to energy efficiency and the diversification of renewable energies, as well as measures on climate and environmental protection.
the shipping industry must also achieve the objectives of the european union, namely the rehabilitation of the shipbuilding industry, the increase in productivity, the improvement of the competitiveness of existing shipyards and the protection of the environment.
i am not an alarmist, i am not against nuclear energy, i would never advocate, as i believe no one in spain would, that the submarine be moved at any cost if this meant an objective increase in risk, but it is not in the spirit of european democracies, nor in the treaty on european union, that decision-making is alien to human security and, in short, that the population should take risks in exchange for greater technical, budgetary or diplomatic comfort.
what has certainly not been appropriate and consistent has been the intentional creation of a climate of social alarm in the area, with the obvious purpose of turning this problem into a drain on the spanish government.
the collapse in cocoa prices, the crushing weight of the external debt, the rise in fuel prices and other factors have led to an internal situation of growing tensions, with a marked deterioration in the social climate, with increased unemployment and poverty.
in order to really unblock the current situation, the conditions must first be created so that such elections can take place in a climate of civil peace and reconciliation.