in my opinion, the committee responsible for drawing up the report has not sufficiently taken this aspect into account in its own report, and that is why, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, i draw the attention of the european commission to this.
finally, since our committee deals with energy issues, we would have liked to see even more emphasis on support for renewable energy through the resources of the structural funds and the cohesion fund, which would have allowed, through a process of coordination, to increase the exploitation of renewable forms of energy, so that the lack of funding resources for the energy programme could have been compensated by these larger funds.
or have regional disparities - distances, too hot or too cold climate, scattered habitat, harsh conditions - not been sufficiently taken into account?
if competition policy is subordinated to socio-political and environmental issues, real efficiency and economic growth will remain a dream.
but what use are we going to make of the crisis consciousness that this ecological catastrophe has awakened?
finally, i would like to point out that when my country grants environmental aid to shipowners who are committed to improving environmental aspects, some departments of the commission consider that this is financial support for shipyards, contrary to european regulations.
it is unacceptable that the right to take environmental measures in accordance with the guidelines adopted by the commission should be denied on the pretext of unlawful aid.
in addition to the fiscal package, there is a growing need for a uniform energy taxation system and a neutral effect on the overall tax burden.
- (fi) mr president, this is a report on a very technical aspect, but one which is nevertheless of great importance for energy savings and also for employment in europe.
the rapporteur has done an excellent job of analysing the energy impacts of the directive, but at the same time we have unfortunately lost sight of the fact that if it were to be implemented, the directive would create unemployment in europe, especially in germany, but also in finland, austria, italy and spain.
two types of ballasts are used in fluorescent tubes, which have an effect on their energy efficiency.
in the nordic countries, this heat saves heating energy and is not simply wasted energy.
electronic ballasts produce better light and less heat and are significantly more energy efficient than ferromagnetic ballasts.
in particular, studies on the analysis of the use of renewable energy sources should continue to be promoted.
if peat cannot be directly classified as a renewable, non-fossil energy source, it must be defined as a separate class, especially for environmental taxation.
the promotion of renewable energy sources is a partial solution to eliminate the union's dependence on imported energy.
dependence on imported energy is most acute in several eastern european countries, whose economic structures still suffer from the dependence on russian energy created by the soviet era.
we are all concerned about the environment and the future of our children.
the share of renewable energy sources in total energy production must be increased, but it must also be done in a reasonable way.
we must remember that for a long time to come we will not be able to base our basic energy production on renewable energy sources.
that is why we need the energy that saves the climate, namely nuclear energy.
the union has ambitious objectives in promoting the use of renewable energy sources.
it must be allocated to pilot projects, research, information exchange and also to creating attitudes in favour of the use of renewable energy.
the main responsibility for the promotion of renewable energy sources lies with the member states.
it is to be hoped that this programme will inspire the member states to take decisive action to promote the use of renewable energy.
but in the future, the union will also have to increase its contribution to promoting renewable energy and ensuring that these forms of energy have free access to the market.
the promotion of renewable energy sources is particularly important for the environment.
the union will not be able to achieve its renewable energy objectives without actively increasing the use of renewable energy sources.
europe will also be able to play a leading role in the industry providing the facilities needed to use renewable energy.
it should also be borne in mind that renewable energy sources have a positive impact on regional development and employment.
peat is not on the list of renewable energy sources.
in finland, at any rate, it is a slowly renewable source of energy used in a sustainable way.
- (fi) mr president, we are in a very unusual situation at the moment: those who want to defend environmental values are defending the council's common position.
unlike the previous speaker, i am very proud that under the finnish presidency we have reached a common position which defends environmental values.
the environmental tax reform is what my group wants to stress.
we can only create jobs and sustainable development by changing the structure of taxation, but unfortunately - as we all know - this is an area in which the european union is completely incapable of acting.
i do not think it is appropriate that we should be partially pursuing the same debate when the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy presents the roth-behrendt report in plenary.
it's important not only for the environment but also for public health.
i think the environment committee has delimited the question of water transfer too narrowly.
this is not just a problem for spain, it is also a problem for the scandinavian countries and i really hope that national solutions will be trusted in this matter, when they are better for the environment and the economy than those now presented in the directive.
the discussion of the water framework directive is timely: the shocking news of the ecological disaster in romania must be taken into account both in today's debate and in thinking more generally about the environmental dimensions of the enlargement of the union.
the cyanide and heavy metals that have spilled into the rivers are a terrible example of how we can destroy waterways for decades to come through a negligent and irresponsible attitude towards the environment.
the event shows that in some candidate countries environmental standards and thinking are still light years away from the eu level.
it would therefore be beneficial for the union to reconsider how subsidies to green projects could be redirected so that they better support a sustainable water policy.
as for the proposal for a directive, it is worrying that the importance of unpolluted surface water for the expansion of natural aquifers is not sufficiently taken into account in the amendments of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
an ecologically sustainable transfer of water should not be restricted by union decrees.
the amendments proposed by parliament would above all improve the possibilities for media companies with a stable position on the markets to transfer their old market shares of over 80% into a new environment by means of rigid and disproportionate copyright regulation.
the key to the well-being of eu citizens is to strive to maintain sustainable economic growth across the eu, to ensure a more equitable distribution of wealth at regional level and to ensure that more people can enjoy a decent income from their work without having to rely on society.
the opening up of the telecommunications market to competition, which has already been decided, and the introduction of competition in the energy sector will create much-needed new jobs and bring down prices for industry as well as for consumers.
the group of the european people's party and european democrats stresses its aspirations to develop a social market economy, or, as we now say, an eco-social economy, which takes into account the well-being of society as a whole, including the environment.
from this point of view, mr wijkman has produced an excellent report, which stresses the importance of this model, the only one that can succeed and be morally sustainable.
in other words, environmental science and technology projects cannot include partners from, for example, north africa.
- (fi) mr president, the amendments of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection generally emphasize the high level of environmental protection and for that reason many of them are quite acceptable.
infrastructures for waste collection and incineration vary from country to country, however, so that in reality the provisions do not apply equally to all.
in finland and some other countries, the sorting of waste close to the place where it is produced is already well advanced.
this is why we do not mix waste in incineration, as is done in some countries.
mixed waste incineration is a bad environmental policy.
the sorted waste can be incinerated by co-incineration with other fuels.
the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment unjustifiably lump in the same bag mixed waste incineration and co-incineration.
such a practice risks, through indirect economic effects, weakening the level of environmental protection in the countries which sort waste.
in conclusion, i would point out that the cement lobby must not be given a better competitive position than hazardous waste treatment plants themselves.
- (fi) mr president, waste recycling and waste policy as a whole are becoming an increasingly important part of community environmental policy.
in order to act rationally and in a timely manner, we must bear in mind something that has already been discussed here, namely the waste hierarchy: prevention, recycling, incineration with energy consumption and final disposal.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has, at second reading, added to the common position the amendments needed to promote the waste hierarchy and i hope that these views will also be taken into account in tomorrow's vote.
i also want to see support for the proposal, which was widely approved in committee, to facilitate the co-incineration of waste from the paper and cellulose industries in the same plant.
this waste is an important source of energy not only for the industrial plants themselves but also for the surrounding municipalities.
since the waste hierarchy is implemented very differently in different member states and since in most countries hazardous and non-hazardous waste is incinerated in the same incinerator, very strict rules are needed.
however, in countries where waste recycling is relatively well done, such as finland, and where it is known what is incinerated and where, stricter measurement standards do not improve the state of the environment, and may even weaken it, because incineration of waste becomes impossible in small installations and transport costs increase.
- (fi) mr president, the directive on waste incineration is based on a good principle, but in my opinion it was drawn up in too much detail.
the sorted municipal waste and in particular the residual fibrous masses from the wood processing process constitute a good fuel for many heating plants, when added to others.
the final result is the opposite of what was intended: sorted non-hazardous waste, which is a fuel that can be used by heating plants, will have to be dumped in landfills, where it will increase methane emissions, or else it will have to be transported hundreds of kilometres away, with environmental pollution as a result, to large-scale incineration plants.
the development of environmental legislation for europe as a whole is not easy, as the conditions vary widely between member states.
i come from a country where a line has already been adopted which corresponds surprisingly closely to the community strategy on waste management.
it is therefore regrettable that the same mechanisms which are needed to give guidance to countries which have done less well in waste management are forcing more advanced countries to do less well in this respect.
if the use of a waste fuel is illogically subject to much higher emission standards than other fuels, the exploitation of waste fuels will cease.
there is no alternative to incinerating combustible waste: it will end up in landfills.
this will increase the formation of methane from the decomposition of organic waste and will increase the greenhouse effect.
it is therefore important that the european parliament amends the proposal for a directive on this point in the manner set out by the commission in amendment no 4. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has adopted a number of proposals which, if implemented, would make it more difficult to use co-incineration, which is environmentally justified.
in particular, the fuel itself used in co-incineration - and therefore other than waste - is subject to emission limit values identical to those for waste incineration, whereas in heating plants community legislation allows the same fuel to be used with higher limit values.
it increases the cost of measurement in a fundamental way, without benefit to the environment, because the measurement obligations do not only concern installations where ammonia emissions are likely to occur.
the money invested, which does not generate any environmental value, is no longer available for environmentally beneficial investments.
the rapporteur, mr president, has set the european union ambitious environmental objectives, which were set out in the fifth environmental action programme and the 1997 acidification strategy, amongst others.
these programmes aim to protect people and nature from the harmful effects of air pollution, so that the limits of the risks to nature and people are not exceeded.
the technical possibilities for eliminating the sources of polluting emissions are not even fully known.
the first step is to set interim targets for 2010, which means reducing exposure to ozone by two thirds by that year.
however, we cannot be satisfied with this, because even if this target is reached, there will still be too many areas where pollution levels exceed the limits from which they are dangerous for man and nature.
i therefore proposed in my report that this interim objective be supplemented by a long-term objective and a final objective by 2020. we could then finally reach a situation where critical levels and loads are not exceeded and all individuals are effectively protected against the known health risks of air pollution.
the commission proposal sets ceilings for each member state for certain pollutants which are treated together and which are responsible for acidification, ground-level ozone formation and soil eutrophication.
it has been shown that tackling these problems and the pollutants that cause them together is the most cost-effective way to influence and control the agents responsible for air pollution.
although it has been conclusively demonstrated that ambitious environmental targets are a component of the health and safety of individuals, a lower level of target is justified by the fact that cleaner air is too costly for industry and society.
the greens/efa group is calling for even stricter targets for 2010 than the one proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
it should be borne in mind that we still have to implement the kyoto targets anyway, which means that we will definitely have to make energy use more efficient and we will simply have to use less energy.
we very much welcome the fact that the environment committee has extended the scope of the directive to maritime and air navigation and we are convinced that the benefits of an integrated environmental strategy are extremely important.
for my part, i am prepared to accept the compromise reached in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy on the initiative of the epp-ed group, which envisages following the commission's proposal, except as regards ammonia emissions, because it does not cause any major difficulties for my country of origin, finland, or for our neighbour sweden, as has already been stated on several occasions during the debates.
it is important that environmental objectives are achieved with the best possible cost-benefit ratio throughout the community.
emissions of pollutants have been significantly reduced in the energy sector, transport and industry.
in addition, new community environmental provisions have been adopted continuously in recent years and new objectives have been set for industry.
i find it somewhat problematic that the objectives are constantly being changed before the actual environmental effects of the legislative measures adopted and the costs to industry have been properly assessed.
finally, as regards emissions from shipping and aviation, limits must be decided at international level and at this stage should be left outside the scope of the directive.
the ever-accelerating development of the information society is decisively transforming our environment, working and living conditions.
the management of a new environment also requires technical and pedagogical skills from the educational systems.
in lisbon, the principles of sustainable financing of social security should be agreed with this in mind.
the commission's objective of promoting renewable energy sources must of course be supported.
a real effort is needed in the field of energy research.
it is not a question of promoting renewable energy sources at the expense of other sources of energy.
renewable energy sources can also be made competitive by increasing consumer choice.
the report is unnecessarily concerned with the definition of renewable energy by making peat a particular problem.
the aim was to ensure the financial integrity of electronic money institutions and to help create an environment conducive to the expansion of these new means of payment.
i would like to return to some points in the report by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
the rapporteur and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection have, however, dealt with the proposal in a harsh manner and propose that most of the additives in the committee's draft be rejected.
is he not up to the task or has the committee on the environment really gone too far in its interpretation of the precautionary principle?
the timetable proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is not too restrictive.
at the same time, we must be aware of the ecological consequences that these events could have for our common environment in europe.
the tisza flows into the danube delta, one of the most important environmental protection areas in the world.
i agree with most of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, but there are a number of points which call for additional measures.
as regards antibiotic resistance genes, the council's position authorizes the continuation of research under strictly defined conditions, with due regard for the environment and the interests of consumers.
i therefore consider it very important that we establish general rules on liability for environmental damage.
as regards the mediterranean countries, an indicative amount of eur 55 million was allocated to research and development activities, such as integrated coastal management in the mediterranean, including environmental aspects, water management, natural resource management, conservation and restoration of cultural heritage, socio-economic modernisation, etc.
as regards developing countries, an indicative amount of eur 210 million is made available for specific activities such as those related to the uptake of innovation, the promotion of a sustainable relationship between population pressure, food security and the use and management of ecosystems, as well as productivity improvement and the prevention of the degradation of natural resources.
a study on the impacts of existing transport networks on sustainable economic development and employment is also needed.
too much regulation hinders trade on digital networks and prevents it from adapting to the new environment and technical progress.
for example, moldova is entirely dependent on imported energy from russia and is thus under the thumb of russian energy companies.
this spiral can only be stopped by strengthening moldova's energy sector and diversifying the country's exports.
moldova imports all its raw materials from abroad and is highly dependent on energy imports.
so there is an energy bottleneck that is strangling not only moldova but also its neighbour ukraine and, one might say, belarus.
the parliament here must take decisions on the new agricultural policy beyond 2006. such a policy, which deviates from the agreed position, does not create the stability and climate needed to look together far into the future.
i would like to thank in particular the author of the report, mrs roth-behrendt, for the energy with which she has dealt with this matter; it is easy to agree to a very large extent with its proposals.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has reached a position which makes it possible to achieve both objectives.
i myself tabled an amendment on this in the committee on the environment, citing as a reason precisely the order of importance i mentioned earlier, namely that public health comes first.
mr katiforis is also asking for this; it is true that it asks the commission to do so, whereas it would have to ask the national states which in one case or another exercise that obstruction, for example in the transport, public procurement or energy sectors.
after the preparatory work of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, the compromise reached in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy is very good.
it is extremely important that the maximum levels of toxic substances in tobacco - not only nicotine but also tar and carbon monoxide - be harmonised to the lowest possible level.
- (sv) mr president, commissioner, when it comes to this report, it seems that i am being prosecuted under the law of maximum bad luck, since i was myself in romania when the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy was voted.
for this reason, i am in favour of the soft approach - of non-binding standards - to the creation of a new environment for action, provided, however, that the legislator is given sufficient means to bring his position to the attention of the commission and the council before issuing recommendations or taking other decisions altering the field of action.
the question of the dismantling of obsolete reactors and the final treatment of spent fuel is essential for the future of the energy sector and nuclear research in europe as a whole.
nuclear energy is the most important and most versatile form of energy production in europe, now and for a long time to come.
both the candidate countries and the union must work effectively, in particular through the tacis and phare programmes, to make decommissioned and obsolete nuclear installations environmentally sustainable.
the requirements for the decommissioning of several operational but obsolete nuclear installations in eastern europe may lead to an uncontrolled decommissioning of the energy sector.
no one wants to push the countries of eastern europe into a situation where they are entirely dependent on imported energy.
more effort is needed than is currently required for the final treatment of radioactive waste.
there is a model for a sustainable solution.
as regards internal market policy, public health and environmental protection aspects must also be taken into account, in accordance with the treaty of amsterdam.
the great visions of the future on the one hand, the boycott of austria on the other: this is not to create a climate of great confidence in these countries.
in this drug-friendly climate in parliament, it is important that the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction be given sufficient resources to fight drugs outside the european union as well.
i would like to remind you of my conclusion that it is necessary to observe and confirm that any initiative of this kind must be subject to a socioeconomic and environmental assessment.
the liberalisation of the energy market is the only way to guarantee consumer rights and the means for the credible functioning of the internal market.
the commission must ensure that the energy market is really opened up and that this is done in a fair-play spirit.
europe's biggest energy players also need to be put back in their place.
france, for example, with its advanced energy sector, is determined to protect its own markets.
the liberalisation of the energy market also implies a fair attitude on the part of the commission towards the different forms of energy.
i cannot help but be surprised by the statements by mrs de palacio, the commissioner responsible for energy, that free flowing water would not be part of renewable energy sources.
hydroelectric power in the nordic countries is a natural source of energy, which is environmentally friendly and cheap because of the good water conditions.
the protectionism of the major energy players in central europe is the main cause of the obstacles to access to the central european markets of cheap electricity produced by hydropower.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
the precautionary principle is a very important instrument of environmental legislation.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is now joining them.
the commission is aware of the seriousness of the problem of pollution of industrial sites in europe.
according to the european environment agency's report on the state of the environment in the eu, the 1998 centre for land issues estimated the number of sites that are polluted or likely to be polluted at 750,000. the current european legislation, as well as the one currently being drafted, focuses on pollution prevention.
directive 96/61 on the harmonisation of measures to prevent and control pollution, the ippc directive, establishes the obligation for member states to take the necessary measures to clean up abandoned industrial sites.
this directive will have to be fully applied from november 2007. the directive we are currently drawing up on environmental responsibility is another instrument which should help to prevent land pollution in the future.
as regards old pollution, some member states have developed special financial instruments - for such cases there are taxes or special funds.
as regards long-term land pollution, the principle of subsidiarity should be applied, as national, regional or local authorities are better placed to deal with such issues.
this is more than one kind of pollution that does not spread across borders.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution of industrial sites.
in order to be able to clean up the sites concerned in the best possible way, it is necessary to know what type of pollution is involved and what the local context is.
the impact of climate change must be increasingly taken into account in the protection of forests.
we have succeeded in reducing - and the community directives have also contributed to this - traditional air pollution over the last decade, but at the same time the risk of global climate change getting out of control has increased.
the environmental tax proposed for air traffic will also have to be balanced so as not to unduly affect long-haul flights and to encourage train travel for short journeys.
we must act in close cooperation, as mrs schörling has said, including on the environmental liability rules we need to develop, which are mentioned in article 2a.
the impact of environmental offences extends over the territory of several countries.
your analysis is quite correct: the environment must be seen as a factor in human health and biodiversity, as well as an artistic and cultural heritage.
it is easy to support the approach of fighting environmental crime more effectively.
transparency is also a way to prevent environmental offences.
why do we not start with transparency and demand transparency for the fact that the belgian government is dumping waste water without purifying it in the river that winds beneath the city of brussels?
it is true that when fines are low, environmental crime becomes profitable.
the most egregious environmental crimes are committed by corporations, and for some of them, it is part of their business.
it is precisely this repeated and intentional criminal activity in the environmental sector which should prompt us to intervene.
it is clear that a business manager has a more responsible attitude towards the environment if it is possible that once he is imprisoned, he will be excluded from this environment which he has abused in a criminal way.
- mr president, the best way to integrate environmental issues into all policy areas is to take environmental considerations into account as early as possible in the planning phase.
there is a strategic environmental impact assessment, which covers not only planning but also programmes in the fields of agriculture, transport, tourism and energy.
in order to bring all these important things together and to operate in a sustainable way, both environmentally and socially, we need to plan for the long term.
i would also refer to the legislation adopted in finland, which states that the contribution may not depend on the quantity of ship waste discharged into the sea.
in recent days we have been told that eutrophication of grey water is the most obvious and unobtrusive source of pollution in the baltic sea.
we think it normal that the principle of 'the polluter pays' should not apply to oil pollution, but there are also problems with other eutrophication.
the commission is genuinely interested in the environment.
it is in the general interest of society that europe should create an environment in which companies, i.e.
- mr president, we know that transport emissions are one of the biggest environmental problems and they have proven to be among the most difficult to eliminate.
on the other hand, we have heard that the kyoto agreement does not include air emissions from aviation.
in this situation, we really must put our greatest efforts into the work being done at icao and its committee on the environment, which is setting up international environmental standards.
the use of various legal instruments, environmental taxes, charges and also administrative measures, such as the regulation of departure and arrival times, must be taken into account, taking into account that, in addition to air transport, rail transport exists in areas where long distances are not a barrier and must be developed.
this is necessary both for congestion and environmental reasons.
one possibility is the environmental levy planned for air transport.
the reason for this is the difficulty of replacing tax revenues in the short term and the disincentive effect of taxes on consumption in the long term, which we seek to influence the future state of our environment.
the causes of the crisis are not only on the supply side but also possibly in the structure of the refining chain, the nature of the oil energy market, the futures method and the storage policy of certain countries or regions.
in the long run, as the former saudi oil minister, sheikh yamani, has estimated, the persistently high price of oil will lead to other forms of energy.
this is the third oil crisis and since 1979 there has been nothing but negligence in energy policy.
much has been said about the transition to a sustainable energy policy, but very little has been done.
transport ministers now have a real opportunity to make a direct u-turn in energy policy towards a sustainable energy economy.
our group has today presented such a comprehensive programme as the new energy policy programme of the european union.
we want to start implementing this from the budget, we are presenting a new budget line called 'new energy sources'.
we want to promote energy saving and better building techniques in buildings, among other things.
we also want the european union to have the powers to manage the new energy policy.
we demand that energy be included in the treaty as a chapter in its own right and we stress the importance of abandoning the unanimity requirement in relation to taxes.
for nearly ten years, there have been attempts to create a common energy tax for the european union.
the crises caused by environmental problems must be anticipated and aid must not be given in such a way as to intensify the struggle for natural resources.
in addition, costs are rising, due to, among other things, higher fuel costs and increased environmental and other obligations.
if the same energy had been put into developing confidence-building systems instead of lobbying, which has been done in some cases in ignorance, i think a lot would have already been done to create the confidence and the confidence system needed to encourage consumers to start shopping.
mr president, commissioner vitorino, it is important for the electronic commerce market that trade can be conducted in an electronic environment on a pan-european basis.
there's an old finnish saying, "you have to study things first, then you have to waste them".
the environment, among other things, is one of the major benefits of enlargement, along with many other areas.
it is essential for the environment that we have limited options for transitional provisions and that we have a clear indication of how we will proceed during the transitional period.
we have the resources allocated in the budget under agenda 2000, but we must ensure that the necessary resources, which are needed particularly in the environmental field, are available precisely before accession.
let us consider the costs to us if the two-tier system continues and what this means in the social and environmental spheres.
the commission's proposal is welcome in this respect and clearly better than the amendment tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, which would still allow for dilution.
only in this way can we move towards a more sustainable security, with a particular emphasis on disarmament and stability in europe and the world.
the proposal under consideration includes a target of eur 250 million in eib loans to croatia for the period 2000-2007. the amount is intended to finance basic infrastructure projects and environmental investments, the development of industry and smes, housing reconstruction, urban renewal and tourism.
as mrs riis-jørgensen rightly emphasizes in her report and in her speech, there is a danger, particularly in the case of small member states, that the definition of dominant market position will be based on a too narrow conception of the market, making it more difficult for companies in small member states to become sufficiently large players in the global competitive environment.
examples include the european company, the pan-european liberalization and privatisation of the postal service, the opening up of competition in the energy sector and the start of tax harmonisation.
the appropriations for road safety, sustainable transport and combined transport are limited to symbolic appropriations.
the reason why there has been silence on the right here is that we have already dealt with these matters once and we do not think that we need to talk about the same issues many times in this chamber and waste our precious time.
i think it is very important that the outermost regions are integrated into the transeuropean transport, energy and telecommunications networks.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has taken a sensible line in making the food safety authority a scientifically authoritative body with responsibility for risk assessment and communication.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection followed mr bowis' advice and decided not to take a position on the location of the food authority.
emissions trading came into the climate debate as part of so-called flexible mechanisms.
the european union did not want to include them in the alternative package, but they are now in an international agreement and the rules for these so-called flexible mechanisms, of which emissions trading is one of the key ones, are being drawn up in the hague.
the european union has therefore decided to propose that the transition to greenhouse gas emissions trading within the union should begin as early as 2005, which is different from the fact that the kyoto treaty itself allows for such international emissions trading as of 2008. but within the european union, this system can be tested and developed.
action at european union level on emissions trading is absolutely justified, otherwise competition will be distorted.
i would like to draw the attention of the committee to the fact that emissions trading can do a lot, but not everything.
it is very important that emissions trading should complement other means, of which economic controls are the key.
it is also very important that the emissions trading is monitored effectively and i believe that we also need environmental inspectors, which we are currently negotiating with the council.
they are seeking a leading role for the eu in the international fight to slow down climate change.
according to the european environment agency, eu greenhouse gas emissions are expected to increase by 6% between 1990 and 2010. it also estimates that the transport sector will be the one with the highest growth in emissions.
urban transport in particular plays a key role in reducing co2 emissions from transport.
the committee therefore encourages the commission to make proposals in its new green paper to change the transport culture in developing countries in order to achieve a lasting reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, and considers it necessary to increase support for public transport.
the committee criticised the commission for the fact that policy and measures are secondary to the eu's strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
this cannot be accepted if the eu is to play a leading role in slowing down climate change.
i feel that we politicians have not yet realised the seriousness of our situation with regard to climate change.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although the priority of the union's climate policy must be sustainable environmental policy, we must also take into account the international competitiveness of industry and the smooth functioning of the internal market in our decisions.
the ability of countries to take action to reduce emissions varies widely.
even if a particular sector in one member state is among the best in the world in terms of environmental performance - and this is true of many industries in finland, for example - it may be subject to a stricter emission quota than its less efficient competitors in another country.
i warmly support the further development of nuclear power, as this would give our energy-intensive industry a competitive edge in terms of both economy and climate emissions.
the report also does not therefore advocate or specifically oppose the use of individual forms of electricity generation, but rather calls for the use of all forms of electricity generation in the formulation of national climate strategies.
they have been considered in several member states as a very effective means of contributing to the achievement of the climate objective.
in the european parliament we would like to impose conditions on loans granted by the european investment bank in general, conditions relating to the environment and the social protection of third country nationals, and in the case of turkey, conditions relating to respect for human rights.
the result is a fairly balanced proposal which sets strict limits on the incineration of both hazardous and non-hazardous waste, improves the state of the environment and makes it possible to use waste also for the production of electricity and heat.
in some countries, the best environmental alternative is to burn carefully sorted combustible waste in small municipal plants that generate electricity and heat.
it is also important that industry can continue to use non-hazardous waste for its own energy production.
i think that parliament should stick to the definition of broad guidelines, which would allow member states to take account of different circumstances and to continue to apply best environmental practices.
the waste incineration directive increases the cost of waste incineration, but reduces harmful emissions and improves the state of the environment.
i think that we have succeeded in this, in that the ecological objectives and the compatibility with the other community policies are being achieved in a way that is even more easily achievable.
the conciliation thus allowed for the publication of an annual report on the emissions of installations burning more than 2 tonnes per hour and for the inclusion of smaller combustion plants in lists open to the public.
i myself managed to get some amendments in the report which were vital for the continuation of the co-incineration practices which were adopted in finland years ago and which are even more ecological than the directive which is now being adopted.
the report by mr blokland, now in its third reading, was also the first real experience for many of the members of the committee on the environment who were elected to parliament for the first time, and the first experience in which they learned about parliament's practices.
- mr president, the dependence of the member states of the union on imported energy is high and is increasing all the time.
dependence on fossil fuels is dependence on imported energy and on foreign policy decisions.
the use of renewable energy sources increases the freedom and independence of peoples and is compatible with the principles of ecologically and socially sustainable development.
the report draws a line in the sand as to what constitutes renewable energy sources.
without prejudice to the question whether peat is a renewable energy resource, peat must be capable of being used as a fuel for energy production, preferably in combined heat and power (chp).
turf is primarily in the nordic countries, and we must have the possibility of burning it in our countries, because it is an energy resource of its own and reduces the eu's dependence on imports.
it produces carbon dioxide when it burns, but it produces it when we burn fossil fuels.
in our country, we are not told that burning peat reduces carbon dioxide, but peat is a fuel of its own, whereas oil and gas are imported.
waste is not a renewable resource, although more and more is being generated every day.
gas from landfills may be burned, but the amount of waste should not be increased to allow for further burning of gas.
of course, it is desirable to increase the use of electricity from renewable sources.
however, the union's dependence on imported energy is now becoming too great.
i think that we need a modern energy conservation programme alongside the development of renewable energy sources, because this dependence is also becoming a security issue for us.
we finns consider both forests and wetlands to be almost sacred and we know how to use them in accordance with the principle of sustainable development.
the promotion of the use of electricity from renewable energy sources is highly desirable.
in any case, the eu's dependence on imported energy will increase significantly over the next 20 years.
the eu must also stick to the kyoto climate targets, so it is particularly important to invest more in research into renewable energy sources.
the debate on renewable energy sources must not turn into populism against nuclear power.
it should be remembered that only the use of nuclear power in conjunction with renewable energy sources will enable the kyoto climate agreement to be fulfilled.
the debate on nuclear energy in sweden and germany, among others, has shown that without environmentally friendly and competitively priced energy alternatives in sight, the debate will inevitably remain deadlocked.
full liberalisation of the electricity market is also a precondition for increasing the use of renewable energy sources.
the definition of renewable energy sources adopted by the committee is a fairly successful and comprehensive one, and it must also include turf, as many colleagues have convincingly argued here.
increasing the use of renewable energy can reduce dependence on oil and create jobs, including in under-resourced areas.
it is also an important means of reducing the community's greenhouse gas emissions.
i think it is a good principle that the directive creates a framework for increasing the use of renewable energy sources in electricity production.
this is the principle which i have taken as a starting point in my own report on access to environmental information.
the european environment agency in copenhagen is one such example, as is the soon to be established food safety authority.
- (fi) the european union's objective is to double the share of renewable energy sources in energy consumption by 2010. renewable energy is an essential element of an effective environmental protection strategy.
peat is an important source of renewable energy in finland, accounting for 6% of the fuels used.
the northernmost regions of finland are part of the tundra zone, where wood is not sufficient to be used as an energy source.
i welcome the fact that the european parliament has recognised these realities by including peat among the renewable energy sources in the report.
the eu member states, including finland, have committed themselves to the kyoto targets, to the preservation of natural resources and to the reduction of emissions of harmful substances.
for these reasons, nuclear energy is becoming increasingly important.
it goes without saying that the exploitation of nuclear energy and the storage of radioactive waste must comply with more modern and more efficient safety standards.
the finnish energy company teollisuuden voima submitted to the government yesterday, 15 november, an application for a decision in principle on the construction of a fifth nuclear power station.
responsible nuclear energy production provides an environmentally friendly and economically viable source of energy, the use of which should not be restricted.
it is therefore natural that banks should also be given access to these resources and that a more risk-sensitive environment should be created.
let us take environmental taxes, for example: we often criticise the united states for not wanting to give up its sovereignty and commit itself to international agreements on climate protection when discussing climate policy, but there are member states among us who also adhere to their imaginary southern border and do not want to go to qualified majority decisions, for example on environmental taxation.
i would like to address two points: the union's civil crisis management is not developed, conflicts are social, economic, industrial, ecological and ethnic in nature.
i would like to make a strong plea, mr president, that this de roo report should not be taken off the agenda, because it is very well prepared and the last council of the french presidency on the environment is preparing to adopt a common position on this on monday and tuesday.
the introduction of daylight saving time has led to energy savings, although the savings reported in the report are very small.
i am grateful for the contribution to sustainable transport, but i must say that the transport and tourism appropriations are largely symbolic in nature.
as a result of the disarmament negotiations, tens of tons of waste plutonium will have to be disposed of.
the main area of cooperation is energy policy, which involves great power politics, for example, the way in which oil and gas are transported from east to west.
the report supports the development of energy cooperation between the union and russia.
i personally propose that energy issues should be the driving force behind this important project, because there is a need for it, there is money flowing and there is money, so that we can also use it in the infrastructure sector for hospitals, environmental issues and so on.
energy for money, that's where the need for cooperation is on both sides and especially in the northern parts of russia, which i would urge russia to turn to.
but in any case, the idea of sustainable urban development has been gaining more and more momentum in recent years.
it is above all a question of a horizontal approach, of sustainable development being the common denominator for social, economic and ecological activities in cities.
we know that the commission is currently preparing a sustainable development programme for the whole of the european union, and that programme should be ready in six months.
i hope that one very important element in this union strategy for sustainable development will be the sustainable development of cities.
the measures must also contribute to the sustainable development of the regions.