i am thinking, for example, of the cold climate of the northern regions.
it is one of the steps towards a policy of employment and sustainable development.
finally, it seems to me that the sixth periodic report offers interesting arguments for a genuine project of sustainable and balanced development of the european territory, particularly when it summarises the importance of the relationship between the centre of europe and its periphery.
on the first point, we are very clear that, in order to take account of the requirements of sustainable development to which the european union has subscribed, it is essential that, in certain cases, there be state aid to enterprises, whether in the form of tax exemptions, differentiated taxation or outright direct aid.
it is also legitimate that there may be agreements between undertakings, agreements of self-limitation, all of which make it possible to reduce the harmful effects of competition on social or ecological requirements.
- mr president, commissioner, during this pivotal year, before the changeover to the single currency, the commission has made every effort to ensure that the euro can be born in a favourable environment.
it is therefore necessary to continue to limit state aid to aid for research and development, environmental protection and closures of firms.
i would like to conclude by stressing that harmonization of the professional qualifications of these advisers will help to improve the quality of service in the interests of users, to minimise the risks of accidents which may lead to environmental degradation and to serious damage which may affect the physical integrity of any person who may come into contact with dangerous goods.
they sum up their position as follows: i regret that in a crucial area such as the transport of dangerous goods we have always put off adopting harmonized standards to the detriment of human safety and the environment.
this also implies a control of concentrations which takes employment, the environment and consumers into account.
competition, that is to say the war between large companies, is constantly being expressed in redundancies, in factory closures, not to mention the huge waste in the use of production capacity.
however, as the rapporteur points out, such aid is sometimes indispensable and may, beyond the survival of a particular firm, contribute to sustainable development (article 6 of the treaty), services of general interest (article 16) and economic and social cohesion (article 158).
it is therefore necessary to continue to limit state aid to aid for research and development, environmental protection and aid for plant closures.
commission - (es) mr president, i should like first of all to thank this parliament for giving me the opportunity to speak about the disaster that occurred on the french coast following the sinking of the oil tanker erika on 12 december 1999, which polluted more than 400 kilometres of coastline, caused the death of thousands of birds and had other extremely negative effects on the environment and on the maintenance of our seas and coasts in a state of safety and compliance with minimum values, which we must demand in a developed society like ours.
the sinking of the erika is, in a way, the antithesis of what we are all fighting for: sustainable development, development that respects the environment.
so, on the environmental front, i would like to point out that in collaboration with the french authorities and at their request, commissioner wallström, who is responsible for the environment, set up an environmental crisis unit immediately after the shipwreck.
this unit set up the community working group on marine pollution and offered the french authorities the services of the best european experts in pollution control.
the commission also took part in the deployment of pollution control instruments at the disaster site and coordinated the action of 11 eu member states, which sent more than 26 kilometres of floating barriers to the site.
this work has led to the creation of a community system which compiles all the information on the means of combating this type of pollution in the community, the setting up of the community working group and the co-financing of the project for training and improving pollution control techniques in the european union.
the commission therefore welcomes the positive response given by the european parliament at first reading to its draft decision on the establishment of a legal framework for improving cooperation in the fight against accidental pollution.
in this case, the marine environment.
we want to encourage and make these procedures - which have been incorporated into the latest international agreements concluded within the imo (international maritime organisation) via the solas (international convention for the safety of life at sea) and marpol (international convention for the prevention of pollution from ships) agreements - mandatory.
in other words, the tankers that call at our ports must be double-hulled, not single-hulled, which are more likely to cause pollution in the event of an accident.
thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, the communication will deal with the complex and thorny question of liability and compensation for damage suffered in the event of pollution caused by a disaster.
finally, ladies and gentlemen, we must combat the irresponsibility of certain shipowners, of certain shipping companies, of certain states, of certain companies, of certain shipping operators, who are a threat to our environment and who can cause disasters such as the one that has unfortunately struck the french coast in recent days.
because the americans learned the lesson of the exxon valdez disaster and in 1990 they drew up the oil pollution act which is both more accountable since it can involve the responsibility of the shipper, more binding and above all better controlled through various regulations and in particular the existence of the us coast guard corps.
you probably know that about 200,000 birds will die as a result of this black tide, which is a major and virtually unprecedented ecological disaster.
- mr president, my group has asked for this debate to be held in order to give our parliament the opportunity to express its solidarity with the people directly affected by this ecological disaster, both in their economic activity and in their emotional relations with their natural environment.
the international fund for oil pollution, fipol, exists, but it dilutes responsibilities and is capped at a very low level which must be reviewed.
firstly, the responsibility of the owners of oil cargoes must be clearly established and must be open to unambiguous action by the victims of pollution.
it is difficult to understand why the french and europeans allow what the americans refuse, and why europe, which is usually so quick to legislate on environmental matters, has ignored maritime safety.
the erika, a maltese-flagged ship, a mobile wreck classified as one of the most dangerous oil tankers, has contaminated our coastline for over 400 km, which is far more serious pollution than that caused by the amoco cadiz.
this is an ecological disaster.
- mr president, we will vote for the gue/ngl resolution because it denounces total-fina's responsibility for this ecological disaster and i support the proposal to ban flags of convenience and the use of outdated boats, or to impose the requirement of a double hull for oil tankers.
the bottom line is that all governments, like all european institutions, recognize the right of large trusts like total-fina and all the like to maximize their profits at the expense of their employees and the environment.
commission - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you have just spoken of the human, ecological and social consequences of the oil spill that has once again hit the french coast.
ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the consequences of such accidents or such bad weather, we are not just talking about ecological or heritage damage.
it is not, of course, emergency aid - you know very well that two years ago the modest appropriations available in the european budget for emergency aid were abolished - it is rehabilitation, sustainable rehabilitation, in the framework of the programmes which are being prepared and this, in my view, is the most important.
in this context, the most specific question is probably that of the wood industry, which has been particularly affected by these storms and which will be the subject of our full attention from both an economic and an environmental point of view.
various actions can therefore be undertaken, for example in the field of energy, under the programme for transeuropean energy networks.
i am well aware that there are many technical problems in the transport of energy, particularly for the transport of very high voltage energy.
however, recalling the rather recent period when i was minister for the environment in france and when i was fighting for the burial of the lines, i would remind you, as one of you said earlier, that in this field as in others, it is much cheaper to prevent than to cure.
it must be understood that the forest has more than just a landscape and environmental dimension.
we now know that such storms are often linked to climate change and greenhouse gases, and our citizens expect the european union to develop a comprehensive strategy of studies and forecasts.
i would also like to draw your attention to the fact that there is an economic catastrophe, but the real ecological catastrophes are still to come.
as you yourself have said, commissioner, these disasters and storms are not always natural and we believe that they are the first signs of climate change.
the storm is an unprecedented ecological disaster for our forests.
the next challenge will be to avoid the plant health problems associated with the abandonment of large volumes of timber in forests and the pollution of the groundwater due to equally large stockpiles of timber.
this is a sad opportunity for europe to renew its forest heritage in view of its role in the conservation of wildlife and the natural environment and in the economy of our countries.
so for now, it is time for solidarity and cooperation between member states in the face of an ecological and economic calamity.
although it must be admitted that we are faced with a representation model which has improved the status of this european parliament during the negotiations of the treaty of amsterdam, we consider it important to work in a way which can promote the establishment of an environment of trust and effective collaboration between the council and parliament.
our objective is to ensure the sustainability of the fishing fleets of the member states of the european union.
firstly, we believe that there is no legal basis for this and that the principle of the guidelines should not be distorted, which, i repeat, are not aimed at the disappearance of fishing in europe but, on the contrary, at controlling it in order to ensure its sustainability.
traditional ferromagnetics would cause a loss of energy, in particular by resistance phenomena.
so they would save 5 watts and multiply by 130 million ballasts, we would save millions of tons of energy, less co2, less greenhouse effect and humanity would breathe better.
this means that more must be produced, with more energy consumed, and the savings of earlier are partly lost.
in other words, for an energy saving that is less obvious than it may seem, our green colleagues are dumping heavy metals and arsenic into nature.
at the same time, besides increasing pollution, unemployment is increasing, because the components used in the manufacture of electronics and the machines that make them are not european.
in the end, by wanting to save a modest amount of energy with electronics, while our manufacturers simply ask for a gradual and selective ban, we have at best an economy, but with pollutant emissions and added unemployment.
and it doesn't address the real issue of waste, which is incandescent lamps that lose up to 50 watts compared to fluorescent lamps.
- the commission's proposal for a directive on ballasts for fluorescent lighting aims to improve their efficiency and reduce energy consumption.
this maximalist approach does not take into account all the technical and scientific arguments, both in terms of energy savings and technological progress.
it seems to ignore, for example, that there are ferromagnetic ballasts with low energy consumption that are very popular on the market.
the inevitable consequence is that tankers which do not meet these criteria will - and increasingly will - return to european waters, thus increasing the likelihood of pollution risks.
- the storm which has struck europe and france in particular calls for several remarks and observations on my part: 1 - while there is no clear link between this storm, the greenhouse effect and pollution, these events are at least a warning of what will happen in the future if we continue to pollute the atmosphere of our planet thoughtlessly.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it is not only capital speculating on the financial markets on a short-term basis that represents a huge waste of material, social and human resources for society, but capital in general.
but the tobin tax is certainly not a measure of social justice, it would not even bother the speculators and instead of preventing the waste and injustices of the capitalist economy, it would only serve to cover them up.
the three main questions, namely the environment, social problems and the management of project revenues, have been the subject of extensive studies for almost four years.
the director of one of these, the world wide fund for nature, even says that the pipeline project is one of the best in the world in terms of environmental protection.
however, it is of course necessary to continue to monitor closely the consequences of such a project and to ensure that they are as harmless as possible in terms of the environment and human beings.
in general, the commission considers that economic opening and trade liberalisation, which will accelerate china's accession to the wto, constitute a favourable environment for the development of human rights, the strengthening of civil society and the establishment of the rule of law in china in the long term, and it will pay particular attention to the latter aspects in the context of the world trade organisation dialogue.
but on several occasions it has shown its understanding of chad's right to exploit its only resource, provided that the necessary precautions are taken with regard to the protection of the environment and the defence of the rights of the local population on the one hand, and the real allocation of future oil revenues to the development of the country on the other.
the commission will pay particular attention to environmental issues when implementing rehabilitation measures.
however, certain aspects of the reform leave us with a deeply uncomfortable impression, because the commission is bringing into the advisory committee on fisheries a very diverse group of lobbyists, whose ties are mainly brussels-based, and who are dedicated to very general goals - development, environment, consumption, etc.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0011/2000) by mr langen, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee, for a decision of the european parliament and of the council adopting a multiannual programme for the promotion of renewable energy sources in the community - altener (c5-0333/1999 - 1997/0370 (cod)).
despite an increase of 3 million compared with the initial proposal, i personally regret once again that the financial means are not up to the stated ambitions and that the council's concern for savings in this situation is in too great contrast with its declarations in favour of energy security, job creation and environmental protection, which are all challenges we have to face.
renewable energy is an unquestionable means of achieving these objectives.
it is almost certain that with the range of measures and actions proposed, the target of 12% renewable energy in 2010 should be reached, i.e.
this programme, together with the save ii programme and the integration of the environmental dimension into energy policy, therefore lays the foundations for a genuine community strategy to achieve clean energy while reducing our dependence.
- the next item is the report (a5-0010/2000) by mrs ahern, on behalf of the parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint draft decision of the european parliament and the council, approved by the conciliation committee, adopting a multiannual programme for the promotion of energy efficiency - save (c5-0334/1999 - 1997/0371 (cod)).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a manner that is compatible with the common market.
i would also stress the need to maintain flexibility between recycling, reuse and incineration for new materials which are particularly light and which reduce vehicle consumption and therefore emissions.
we can therefore welcome the wisdom of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, which has reintroduced, for the avoidance of doubt, the exception for vintage vehicles which are part of our industrial and cultural heritage.
the amendments have the advantage - and i should like to stress this point - of reconciling environmental constraints with economic imperatives.
this is unacceptable because these manufacturers have not been able to integrate the environmental requirements we are imposing on them today into their manufacturing processes and cost structures.
that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i ask you to support the amendments tabled by mr bernd lange, which will be supported by the group of the party of european socialists, because they reconcile all the interests involved - economic interests and environmental constraints - while leaving the member states free to decide how to implement these constraints, since these amendments provide that the systems in place in the member states, and some of them are working quite well, will be able to continue to function.
in some of our states, voluntary environmental agreements have already been signed so that our ditches, canals and fields will no longer be filled with these ugly and dangerous wrecks, from which a frightened hen would sometimes emerge.
so we have to be compassionate alchemists today, concerned about our environment.
this century will be the century of waste management or it will not be.
we are not here today to launch a punitive legislative expedition, but to continue our journey by advocating sustainable development.
so for the consumer, for the environment, for the new jobs to be created in recycling, there is absolutely no need to amend the council's common position, which is, as it stands, quite acceptable.
- parliament is today considering for the last time this text on so-called end-of-life vehicles and their destination: destruction; a laudable intention out of respect for our environment.
- the report (a5-0026/2000) by mrs mccarthy, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the communication from the commission to the member states laying down guidelines for a community initiative concerning the economic and social regeneration of cities and suburbs in crisis with a view to promoting sustainable urban development (urban); - report (a5-0028/2000) by mr decourrière, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the communication from the commission to the member states laying down guidelines for a community initiative on transeuropean cooperation to promote the harmonious and balanced development of the european territory (interreg) (com (99) 0479 - c5-0243/99 - 1999/2178 (cos)) - report (a5-0024/2000) by mr procacci, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the draft commission communication to the member states laying down guidelines for the community initiative on rural development (leader+) (com (99) 0475 - c5-0259/99 - 1999/2185 (cos)) - report (a5-0034/2000) by mr stenzel, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the draft commission communication to the member states laying down guidelines for community initiative programmes (cips) for which member states are invited to submit proposals for aid under the equal initiative (com (99) 0476 - c5-0260/99 - 1999/2186 (cos)) mrs mccarthy being a little late because of her plane, i suggest we hear mr decourrière first.
in the 1994 and 1996 reforms of the structural funds, the interreg icp incorporated new components contributing to the development of the trans-european energy transmission and distribution networks.
it is based on three strands: strand a, which organises crossborder cooperation between territorial authorities in the border regions, both internal and external to the european union, on the basis of common development strategies, the implementation of which is the responsibility of the member states and local and regional authorities; component b provides for transnational cooperation between national, regional and local authorities in several member states or candidate countries to the european union in the fields of spatial planning, transport networks and the environment.
this is an environmentalist speaking to you: the precautionary principle, sustainable development, requires much more diverse and much more multifaceted approaches.
i would also like to express my serious reservations about the trend in the commission's communication under interreg iii and iii b to link environmental protection exclusively with the development of natura 2000, which often seems to me to be too abstract a means of defending ecosystems whose users risk being excluded or severely restricted.
our regions have become aware of their belonging to an environment to which they are linked not only by geography but also by their culture and the history of their peoples, hence the strongly expressed aspiration to be more deeply rooted in this environment.
however, i welcome the fact that new means are being used under leader+ to help rural areas develop their potential and implement the local and sustainable development objectives.
i think it is important that particular emphasis should be placed on experimenting with new ways of exploiting the natural and cultural heritage and on strengthening the economic environment in order to promote employment.
the economy needs to be strong, so we can take care of our loved ones and the environment.
i do not forget that it was the european parliament which politically decided and wanted to maintain this initiative for the regeneration of urban areas in crisis, for sustainable urban development, which also implies the integrated approach we want to adopt in dealing with economic, social and environmental aspects.
the various groups concerned, whether environmental organisations or groups for which employment is a requirement, have the opportunity to participate in the development of commission directives.
in 1998 there were 123 cases before the court of justice for failure to apply or transpose and 25% of environmental directives are not applied or are not transposed.
i would also like to draw the commission's attention here to the coherence between the various policies that are being put in place and i would also like the commission to bring the urban projects into line with the future draft budget lines called 'sustainable urban policy'.
this report stresses that to ensure sustainable urban development, it is necessary to implement an urban policy which does not leave out the main victims of the economic crisis: the unemployed, immigrants, refugees, women and the excluded.
- madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i am very pleased with the continuation of the urban community initiative, an initiative which aims to support the social and economic conversion of cities and suburbs in crisis, all with a view to promoting sustainable urban development.
with some 80% of the european population living in an urban environment, cities are at the heart of europe's economic, social and cultural development.
this ci has fostered the development of good practice in the economic, social and environmental sectors.
these projects really need to be taken into consideration and must already integrate sustainable development.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
for example, accepting new roads means accepting new pollution within the european union and this is totally contrary to the policies we are proposing, for example in the fight against greenhouse gas emissions.
i also ask the commission, in the context of the projects that are being presented, to ensure that the environmental pillar of the european union's policy is integrated into its projects and that, indeed, the objective of reducing co2 for example can be a pilot added value of the projects that are being proposed.
interreg is mainly intended to finance joint approaches in the fields of sme development, training and education, cultural exchanges, health problems, protection and improvement of the environment, energy networks, transport and telecommunications.
is it because of the fierce and globalised competition between the industrialists in this sector that it has become a recycling sector for all the waste from the agri-food industry?
the text referred to by parliament is from the directive which was adopted in 1998. however, the vertical legislation of directive 90/220 on how to carry out the environmental risk assessment of gmos has since been amended and is still amended today.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the question of water will be one of the great environmental and planetary questions of the 21st century.
whether it's climate change, resources across the globe, the quality of our rivers and the quality of our groundwater, we know that these big issues pose risks to our common future.
we will either be able to restore a quality of water that corresponds to the planet's ecosystem, or we will see a whole series of disruptions threaten the development of some regions, threaten the living conditions of the inhabitants in others, and even, more fundamentally, the global balance.
when we talked about climate change, we rightly referred to the greenhouse effect and the state of the atmosphere.
it is therefore appropriate that europe, both because it has to promote a certain model of development and because it itself is faced with serious problems of pollution and deterioration of its waters, whether groundwater, surface water or sea, should be, in some way, exemplary in its practice.
it said: 'within a few years we will have to stop the dumping of pollution, we will have to stop the increase in pollution and even we will have to get close to a level of almost zero, as far as toxic or dangerous substances are concerned.'
because despite these many directives, despite the frequent declarations about the effort that must be made in the field of water protection, when we look at the state of the environment in europe, we see that the objectives have not been achieved.
the example of the danube today, the pollution that is happening in romania, shows very clearly that if we do not put in place a new model of economic development, clear requirements, precise controls and measurements on the state of our rivers, we know that this type of incident will not only happen again, but will multiply over time.
most of the amendments voted by the committee on the environment are in line with this objective; i hope they will have the support of the house.
the recent catastrophe on the danube reminds us that rivers and streams are the lifeblood of our planet and that pollution knows no bounds.
water is a renewable and limited natural resource.
we need this framework directive as an essential element of a sustainable development policy which will have to make the different uses of water compatible with each other.
but it is necessary to integrate the protection and conservation of biodiversity into this new management.
indeed, the issue of enlargement and climate change are opening up new perspectives.
therefore, madam deputy, even if this is not a priority for the community, a member state may decide to finance research and development projects in the field of civil nuclear energy, provided that these projects contribute to regional development and without systematically informing the commission.
as regards your second point, which as you know is of great interest to me and continues to be of great interest to me, renewable energy, the commission's approach is set out in the document on the structural funds and their coordination with the cohesion fund.
these provide that investments in the renewable energy sector should be encouraged as they promote the development of local resources, help reduce dependence on energy imports and also create local jobs.
i was able to verify this, for example, during a visit to portugal a few days ago, to the azores, a natural source of renewable energy.
the contribution of the structural funds to greater market penetration of renewable energy has also been highlighted in the campaign for the take-off of renewable energy sources launched by the directorate-general for transport and energy.
finally, as regards the major energy networks, the guidelines also provide for financial assistance from the funds to develop energy transmission networks where this helps to reduce dependence on an external supplier or to combat the effects of isolation.
mr barnier, i am sorry, but you have not quite answered the last part of my question on the large energy transmission networks.
life is the only direct budget line for environmental action in the community budget and it is clear that it does not live up to our ambitions, since for years the sums allocated to it have been stagnating: despite the enlargement which has already taken place when we renewed the first life programme to move to the second, despite the enlargement, the appropriations had been maintained.
and then we see that more and more regions, different operators, companies, associations are submitting life projects, both for life-nature and for life-environment, that these projects are of very good quality, that after a technical examination by all the competent committees, everyone agrees that they deserve the support of the european union, and yet we are unable to finance them, due to lack of budgetary appropriations.
it seems to me, in any case, that at least for the end of life, there would be a way for the union to make a significant budgetary gesture in favour of the environment.
but i would like to stress that the budgetary question is central to this environmental issue and that parliament cannot give in to the blackmail that would require it to be the only reasonable one in this matter.
so i will also say - as the rapporteur has already done very well - that life is the only specific financial instrument for the establishment and implementation of the european union's environmental policy.
this is absolutely essential because it stimulates truly innovative actions in favour of nature and the environment in europe, which are taken up and extended by the member states.
for the record, agriculture, which has a real impact on the environment, has a budget of - as we all know - 37 billion euros.
in this context, my group considers it vital to increase the life budget and fully supports mrs lienemann's proposal to increase the budget to €850 million, because we know - and i think it is worth saying - how much our citizens expect from the environment and how frivolous and unacceptable this compromise of the council on the life budget is, especially as the life programmes have exceptional execution rates and have shown how much they can help to bring about new environmental practices.
the first sustainable development projects are, without a doubt, these.
- mr president, the european union's environment programme, which has considerable funds (eur 613 million), raises many questions about the proper use of public funds.
it is a question of the sustainability of purchases, since private law associations may disappear or be sold.
it is philosophically shocking and legally questionable that 100% of public money is used to build up private landed property, even under the guise of environmental protection.
for example, the life-nature in france grand-lieu, developed without any consultation, has led to a real ecological catastrophe.
seventh, allowing these funds to be used in the event of an environmental emergency, for example, reforestation after storms, restoration of natural areas after a flood, etc.
we know that the difference in status between development policies and other policies at union level is glaring - one need only look at the difficult conditions under which the communityisation or non-communisation of the edf was settled - and it is hard to believe that we can develop more coherence in european union policies without a more active and more interventionist role for the development council in the taking of political decisions which are of vital importance to development competence and which take place in other councils, other decision-making centres, ranging from the agriculture and fisheries council to the environment council, but in relation to which the development council has so far had no opportunity to be heard or to intervene.
we are strengthening cooperation in all areas of commercial importance, including new areas such as labour standards and the links between the environment and trade.
the marginalisation of many economies, increasing global poverty, the need for better management of environmental interdependence, the destabilising effects of migration and the worrying consequences of armed conflict and pandemics are all major concerns.
no single donor is able to address the full range of issues from macroeconomic issues to policy frameworks or sectoral policies to a range of new cross-cutting themes such as gender, environment, good governance and institutional reforms.
to go further, and this may soon be the fifth inconsistency, we ask for respect for biodiversity, among other things to enable everyone to produce with their own seeds and to preserve natural wealth.
however, this would mean the death of biodiversity and a return to de facto slavery for small farmers in the south to multinational companies.
agriculture, the environment, there are other problems, other inconsistencies that could have been identified, not to mention research, emigration and health.
i will briefly recall that life is a financial instrument for environmental policies within the european union and in third countries, whether neighbouring mediterranean countries, countries bordering the baltic sea or candidate countries.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy proposed a number of amendments, most of which were accepted in the common position adopted by the council.
for the third phase of life (2000-2004), this instrument will be divided into three axes: life-nature (47% of resources), life-environment (47%) and life-third countries (6%).
the most important changes in my view are: - life's contribution to sustainable development in the community, as well as to the development of community environmental policy, in particular as regards the integration of the environment into other policies, and to the implementation and updating of environmental legislation; - improving the efficiency, transparency and methodology of life implementation procedures, information and publicity procedures and cooperation procedures between beneficiaries; - the objective of life: it must be aimed mainly at sustainable urban development, in close association with the pilot projects carried out under the urban initiative, on which i also had the opportunity to speak; what seems essential to me is that the life instrument will remain open to the participation of the candidate countries of central and eastern europe.
the commission proposal endorsed by the council is €613 million, while the environment committee believes that the budget should be €850 million.
such a signal would, whether voluntary or not, constitute a formidable appeal to immigration, whose mere claim for refugee status, whether granted or not, would be sufficient to justify a range of support measures that should lead to its sustainable integration into the world of work, in a general environment of scarcity and in which regular populations, foreign or indigenous, are cruelly confronted with the problem of unemployment.
europe now has a framework to prevent water quality deterioration, promote its sustainable use, protect ecosystems, help to combat floods and droughts and eliminate discharges of hazardous substances.
the ecological disaster on the banks of the danube is a timely reminder that human negligence too often puts natural resources such as water at risk.
it provides a framework to prevent further deterioration, protect ecosystems, promote sustainable water use, help to combat floods and droughts and phase out discharges of hazardous substances.
however, the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment remain numerous.
as regards the timetable and objectives, the council envisages that the objective of achieving good surface water status should be achieved no later than 16 years after the entry into force of the directive, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy wants this deadline to be reduced to 10 years.
in the same vein, i expect the european commission to make a clear statement committing itself to present a proposal to ensure that water prices reflect environmental and resource costs by 2012. i would like to end by quoting one of the amendments of the committee on the environment, which calls for no comment: 'water is not a commodity like any other, but a heritage belonging to the peoples of the european union, a heritage which must be protected, defended and treated as such'.
the issues involved are public health and the supply of drinking water, the quality and biodiversity of the water, and the preservation of landscapes and species.
the requirement of zero discharge and zero pollution, including for substances naturally present in water, is not realistic.
environmental objectives that are too strict and do not take account of reality will not be applied, because they can never be achieved.
- water is a renewable and limited natural resource.
it sets environmental levels close to zero.
the legal obligation to achieve zero emissions and no more discharges within 20 years would mean a ban on all identified substances.
european values have thus survived in this environment, not because of the political system, but in spite of it.
but we can create an environment, conditions, for its development.
support for new democracies should therefore be part of a broader framework: that of the sustainable deepening and strengthening of civil society at pan-european level.
thirdly, the united states played the decisive role in this case and it is very likely that without their energy the international community would still be watching the horrors that led to the intervention in kosovo.
it's like the idea of sustainable coexistence in a room, where one half is flooded and the other half is not.
the conclusion of the new development partnership agreement is therefore to be welcomed, and i am convinced that the work of the last joint assembly has had a decisive influence on the opening of the negotiations, as has the new climate created by the events in seattle.
- madam president, the work of the acp-eu joint assembly in 1999 was marked by growing concern about the sustainability of the cooperation model resulting from the lomé agreements.
for some, everything has already been said about the freedom, almost a divine right, of enterprises and, for others, with whom i feel close, everything has already been said about the unbearable logic of short-term profit, about the contempt for workers, about the social consequences, individual and collective, about the impact on territories, about the waste of know-how and skills.
(applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, commissioner, ecological disasters follow one another and unfortunately look alike.
once again, we are appalled by the serious pollution that is now affecting the fourth largest wetland in europe.
in its resolutions, the european parliament has repeatedly drawn attention to such dangers which threaten our environment, disrupt our ecosystem and, once again, weaken our people.
this new disaster poses the problem of integrating the community environmental acquis for the candidate countries.
the obstacles facing the authorities in these states, which are still very fragile from an environmental point of view, are many.
first, they should be able to prevent this type of spill more effectively by improving the most critical industrial sites; secondly, they should be able to have sufficient technical means at their disposal to prevent and reduce such pollution; finally, they should be able to implement rehabilitation programmes for the most affected and sensitive sites.
the european union must therefore focus its efforts and pressure on the imperative need for all candidate countries to align themselves with community environmental protection standards.
the environment must be a priority in the context of the reunification of the european continent.
the implementation of high environmental standards will not only allow the development of important industrial and technological sectors, but will also simultaneously bring about favourable social and economic benefits and, at the same time, improve public health standards.
(applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i do not think that we can completely throw a stone at the eastern countries that come knocking at the door of the union, because ecological disasters occur as much in our own countries, in the west as in the east.
that is why we must at all costs consider taking into account the environmental aspect in all our development projects, which is becoming an emergency.
it is infinitely more important to the majority of society than the waste in financial transactions, or the scandalous enrichment of a minority of large shareholders.
a thriving tourist industry can be completely wiped out by an ecological disaster such as a black tide.
tourism must respect the environment if it is to be and remain an asset for the future.
employment in tourism is often highly seasonal and precarious, which is an obstacle to its sustainable development.
it is therefore clear that tourism, if properly developed, must in the long term provide a sustainable source of income for local economies while safeguarding and enhancing the richness of the landscape, culture, history and environment.
i will leave it to neil kinnock to explain the content of this reform in more detail, not without first paying tribute to the intelligence, enthusiasm and energy with which he carried out this work.
few initiatives in the field of the european union have evolved with such determination, energy and perseverance as crisis management from helsinki to today.
i would like to thank commissioner patten, who is here with us, for his support and for the tremendous energy he has put into making sure that all these matters can be resolved in a relatively short time.
i therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, madam president, that we are working in this area with determination, with energy and with the broad support of all governments and all heads of state and government.
so i think we are all fighting this fight to help our compatriots to gain access to decision-making power, to gain access to positions of responsibility in the political environment, but i believe that this will only happen with a real revolution of mentalities.
first, the affirmation that there is room for a europe of growth, but a europe of sustainable growth, respecting in particular the commitments of the european union at the kyoto and buenos aires conferences.
there is a huge task ahead of us to meet our commitments by the fateful year 2008 when we will have to return to 1990 levels of greenhouse gas emissions.
there is a huge amount of work to be done in the field of transport, energy saving and even replacing travel with internet communications.
there is also a risk for the environment, because it is known that there is an incubation period in salmon and that therefore, when eaten, they can be healthy carriers of this virus and pose a danger.
another danger also exists for the environment, because this disease is transmitted to wild fish, as we have seen.
fish are the basis of our food chain and the first disaster to be classified as harmful to the environment was minamata disease, which occurred in japan in 1958 because fish were polluted with mercury.
so we must monitor pollution very closely, not only from industrial activities but also from households.
for me, emitting into the sea, especially in a closed environment like the mediterranean, when you want to clean up sewage treatment plants, is not a good method for water treatment.
attention must be paid to land-based pollution, development, urbanisation of coastal areas, etc.
but we must also think about restoring the environment and, for example, solving the problems of the taxifolia caulerpa, the areas of posidonia that are disappearing and therefore need to be protected.
read mr katiforis' report again, where he says that in scotland, for example, 17 000 salmon are infected with the disease i was talking about earlier, and are damaging the environment.
the council of europe will meet the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy on 22 march to discuss the research efforts that need to be made, particularly in the marine environment, and the scientific and economic challenges of exploiting the oceans.
but good intentions are not enough, damage must be compensated and losses compensated both in terms of restoring the environment and in terms of shellfish facilities and fishing gear.
this is unacceptable, and we learned this too late, so we must ensure medical follow-up, paying particular attention to the volunteers who have devoted themselves to the restoration of the environment.
mr president, more than two months after the sinking of the erika, pollution continues on the coast, which has already been cleaned.
we must also demand that those who are really responsible for pollution be made to pay for the costs.
yes, total fina must have the financial means to contribute to the repair of the ecological, economic and social damage and to the compensation of the victims.
- the importance, mr president, of looking back at the oil spill two and a half months after the sinking of the erika is that the scale of the economic, social and ecological disaster affecting our atlantic coastline is in fact much greater than the initial assessments suggested.
the ecological catastrophe is a major catastrophe, perhaps unprecedented.
the massive outgassing is increasing, the sixteen thousand tonnes of tar lying in the wreck at a depth of 120 metres is a major risk of new pollution.
we have a role to play in this vital issue of marine pollution.
the citizens of europe have a hard time understanding why europe accepts what the americans refuse and why europe, which is usually so quick to legislate on environmental matters, has so far ignored maritime safety.
but in the meantime, the commission must urgently mobilise european funds to help the companies in distress, to treat the wreck, to clean up the coast, to increase the capacity for storing waste, to ensure its treatment or recycling, and to set up a research programme on the collection of oil at sea.
there are two ways of looking at it: firstly, from an environmental point of view.
the wreck still contains 16 000 tonnes of heavy fuel oil leaking, and beyond these leaks we have unfortunately seen and counted, in the last week, 35 acts of ecological piracy, 35 gassings, which add unworthily to this absolutely catastrophic situation.
but it is at the economic level that the second shock - the first environmental shock, the second economic shock - reveals itself, and many colleagues have said so here.
it is the only way to ensure that seafarers live and work in satisfactory conditions, that they benefit from effective legislation and social protection, and that fishing activities and the environment are respected.
amendment no 3 allows an important dimension to be added, namely the collection of environmental data.
the particularly serious effects of the failure to take account of this type of data can be seen, for example, in the decision to ban driftnets, which is absolutely unjustified from an environmental point of view, since it concerns one of the most selective fishing gear.
if this environmental dimension is not integrated into the data management, the commission could unilaterally prohibit the use of certain fishing gear at its discretion.
we are for a europe that gives the highest priority to meeting the needs of a decent life for all, and in particular for the unemployed; a reduction in working hours with a duty to hire, without flexibility; wage growth in line with productivity; a tax reform that upwards homogenizes the taxation of capital income; a tobin tax to discourage financial speculation; and finally, the implementation of a planned energy saving programme.
- mr president, we voted the resolution on the sinking of the erika in solidarity with the victims of this ecological disaster.
to merely deplore the disaster and to complain to its victims, without taking any enforcement measures to oblige total to make good all the direct and indirect consequences of pollution for which it is entirely responsible, is to do nothing.
and the overall costs borne by local authorities for pollution abatement and tourist repositioning will also have to be taken into account.
it is the responsibility of the polluter to clean up the areas affected by the pollution and to restore the ecological balance that has been destroyed.
this must include minimum access constraints to community waters and ports concerning the age and characteristics of vessels; the commission has also proposed a general principle of environmental responsibility which makes it possible to clarify the responsibilities of the various actors, in particular the charterers, and to impose heavy penalties on them.
the commission has a whole arsenal of binding provisions, measures and decisions (both international and community) already in force in the fisheries and marine environment protection sectors.
but let us not be fooled: while it is true that economic conditions are improving, it is equally true that we still have to face the serious problems of unemployment and social exclusion; many people have pointed to the serious risks to the sustainability of our social protection model.
to do this, we need a strategy that is based on four main pillars: creating the basis for a knowledge-based economy and an information society across our union; implement the economic reforms necessary for competitiveness and innovation; but at the same time, deepen social cohesion; and finally, to invest heavily in more and better jobs, to modernise our protection systems to ensure their sustainability in the future and to invest in macroeconomic policies which not only guarantee stability but are also more favourable to growth and employment.
we are of course in favour of reforming the telecommunications, transport and energy markets.
this is the pillar of social cohesion, the one which concerns the creation of more and better jobs in europe, the one which concerns the creation of conditions for combating the social exclusion which is present in our societies, which is undeniable and which we must combat in a coordinated and determined way, the one which concerns the modernisation of our social protection systems to ensure their sustainability.
finally, the sustainability of our social protection system.
well, we must ensure that this same capacity is put to work in the service of a more favourable economic environment for job creation and economic growth.
in this connection, let me say that it would be highly desirable if europe could achieve, in a sustainable way, in the medium term and of course respecting the natural differences in pace between countries, a level of economic growth of more than 3% and job creation that would allow us to move closer to the regions of the world where these rates are highest, above 70%, instead of our current levels, slightly above 60%.
so we have a summit for sustainable growth and employment.
this is an objective within our reach because we have a solid macroeconomic environment, to which we must now add the lisbon summit, namely human resources, new ideas on the market and on the use of knowledge and research.
we still need further structural reforms; we must complete the picture in the services sector, e-commerce, energy and transport.
we did not hear that the objective of full employment would include support for local and regional initiatives, the third sector of the solidarity economy, the effective and coordinated reduction of working hours, and would come with strong requirements regarding the quality and sustainability of these jobs.
we have not heard that the choice of sustainable development would guide the long-awaited growth.
even at the level of headings, mention is made of the europe of innovation and knowledge, structural reforms, competitiveness, the european social model, employment, social cohesion, macroeconomic policies and sustainable growth.
we need to find the productivity growth needed to achieve sustainable economic development without inflation.
we may be fragmenting the debate on lisbon, but we are always keeping in mind a very specific objective, namely the creation of the economic and social conditions necessary to achieve sustainable growth.
(the sitting was suspended at 8.15 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although much progress remains to be made, it is true that the european union has always had a policy of cooperation and development towards developing countries, and i believe that the environmental dimension must be integrated and developed.
the concept of sustainable development is becoming more and more relevant in these countries, especially in the poorest of them, because they are the ones who suffer most from major disasters, including the natural disasters that are increasing in this century.
we have indeed talked a lot about pollution, about the effects of pollution, but this increase in natural disasters, we saw in central america and venezuela at the end of last year, we see it in mozambique and madagascar today.
in fact, these disasters are due to major climate changes that we are not unaware of, because they are caused by human activity, especially in developed countries.
the greenhouse effect and deforestation are also causing many consequences.
as regards the regulation on the environmental dimension in the development process in developing countries, the council largely followed the amendments which we had tabled and voted on at first reading.
the biodiversity of our planet is at stake.
furthermore, future community actions will have to take account of all aspects of sustainable forestry.
the report is certainly worth considering, but it will also require the establishment of a genuine community policy on conservation and sustainable management.
after having repeatedly stated that the wto must incorporate social and environmental regulatory mechanisms, and that the european union intends to guarantee advantages to developing countries, why does the commission still insist on a single perspective of market liberalisation in this sector?
i therefore ask you to support all the amendments tabled by the members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
- mr president, i voted in favour of the common sense considerations concerning the ecological catastrophe which threatens the planet if present trends continue.
neither the brussels commission nor the european parliament is inclined to act or even to clearly identify those responsible for a disastrous ecological development.
but to claim to integrate the environmental dimension into the development process is pure hypocrisy when the ruling classes of rich countries are actually blocking the path of development from poor countries and keeping the majority of their populations in poverty.
the european union and its member states have a responsibility to protect an ecosystem which is essential for the balance of the environment of the entire planet.
these historical links, this expertise must be put to the service of protecting this ecosystem.
in particular, it is necessary to allow these areas to be developed in a genuine way, while respecting the culture and traditions of their inhabitants, without confining them to a purely passive role of ecological conservation.
- the recent sinking of the oil tanker erika off the coast of brittany has raised public awareness of the problem of, among other things, "de-gassing", the uncontrolled discharge of waste oils, debris or other waste from ships' cargoes, which is carried out by unscrupulous captains on the high seas.
they contribute to turning our seas and beaches into garbage and to endangering the ecological balance of the marine environment.
the convention requires ships to deposit their waste at port reception facilities when calling at ports and in return requires states parties to set up adequate facilities.
the draft provides that ships calling at a community port may not leave the port unless they are provided with certificates proving that their waste and residues have been effectively disposed of in appropriate facilities.
i would remind you that the proposal for a directive under discussion today is aimed at improving the availability and use of port reception facilities for industrial waste and cargo residues.
it is in line with marpol 73/78 (prevention of pollution from ships), but focuses more particularly on waste management in ports.
it is part of the community's overall strategy for waste management and requires all ports to provide adequate reception facilities, meeting the needs of ships.
today we are faced with problems of marine pollution that we must tackle hand in hand with bold action.
the aim is to introduce a system of fees to be paid systematically by all ships when they call at a port, whether or not they use waste disposal facilities.
this will inevitably encourage ships to discharge their operating residues or other waste in ports rather than off-shore, a practice which is now commonplace and which is condemned.
it is well known that some ships have even taken advantage of the pollution caused by the sinking of the erika to dump their waste into the sea.
but is this not the price to be paid for ensuring the cleanliness of the marine environment, especially since the directive provides that the least polluting vessels should be able to be identified and benefit from reduced fees?
it is part of the overall community strategy for the reduction of marine pollution and for the management of waste and requires all ports in the union, including marinas, to provide adequate reception facilities to meet the needs of ships.
the european parliament and its committee on regional policy, transport and tourism have therefore, confirming the first reading of the previous legislature, proposed that each ship entering a member state's port should bear 90% of the costs of receiving and handling waste, irrespective of the actual use it makes of the facilities.
- we cannot ignore the coincidence of this second reading of the proposal for a directive on marine pollution with the tragic news of the sinking of the erika.
the text does not deal with accidental causes of pollution, but we know that the consequences of pirate practices of offshore degassing are no less serious.
this proposal for a directive and the amendment to introduce a universal port tax on ships in all european ports to finance the treatment of their waste have a twofold purpose: to oblige ports to equip or organise themselves to treat the waste from the operation of ships, whether directly or by subcontracting, to competent specialised operators; and above all, to dissuade ships from evading their waste treatment obligations, since they will pay the price anyway.
however, it is necessary to ensure that this universal taxation measure is as mutualised as possible and accompanied by national or european financial provisions enabling small ports to access waste treatment services without unreasonably burdening their economy and thus their sustainability.
under these conditions, what this directive proposes is a first exemplary response by europe to the legitimate emotion aroused by the pollution caused by the sinking of the erika.
- the council had already had to debate this directive on port reception facilities for ship-generated waste at length, but the text it had reached respected the principles of strengthening the protection of the marine environment by taking account of the realities of each member state, without upsetting national practices, which is not the case with the text of the report which has just been submitted to us.
a state such as france has already implemented the provisions of the marpol convention by guaranteeing in each port quality reception and treatment facilities, entrusted to private companies, which invoice the shipowner directly according to the type of waste and its nature: the reduction in the cost of use for the so-called ecological ships is therefore 'natural'.
- ships bearing the 'ecological' label, and a contribution independent of the use of the facilities applied indiscriminately: we therefore refuse to substitute a taxation which takes account of the nature of waste for a blind policy of taxing the flow of ships, irrespective of their danger to the environment.
it is essential to improve the level of safety and to reduce the environmental impact of these vehicles, whose traffic is constantly increasing.
mr president, commissioner, we are not satisfied with this directive because it merges two texts, one on the incineration of hazardous waste and the other on the incineration of non-hazardous waste.
this poses a problem for several stages of incineration: the receipt of waste, its treatment and its handling.
however, and this is the paradox, the rapporteur is also in favour of mixing hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
so where is the progress for the environment?
the wish of our group is not to favour one type of industry over another, because both are very useful for european waste management.
it is necessary to take account of the practices of each member state in preserving the existing industrial balance and to see how to better protect the environment.
the common position proposes a limit value for nox for the incineration of hazardous waste for 2007, which does not yet exist.
until now, they have only been available for non-hazardous waste.
it is therefore regrettable that the blockland report proposes unrealistic solutions when we know that many directives on waste management are not yet implemented or are being poorly implemented by the member states.
the problem we are facing is that in europe we do not have a good definition of what is waste.
so there is always confusion whenever a text on waste has to be revised or new proposals have to be made.
the commissioner therefore believes that there is an urgent need for a complete reform of waste management in europe.
- mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, waste management is a complex task.
that is why i support the european union's approach to this major environmental and health challenge.
however, i have always been personally very concerned about the incineration of hazardous and non-hazardous waste being dealt with in the same legislation, and i had already spoken on this at first reading.
i believe that today we must fight to prevent the weakening of the emission standards for hazardous waste.
the volume of waste to be incinerated will be considerably increased.
we are talking about 31 million tonnes in 1990, and we should be approaching 60 million tonnes this year, and the incineration of waste, as everyone has pointed out, is emitting particularly dangerous substances into the air and into the soil.
i think that the standard, set at a maximum of 40%, is too high, but i would like to stress, in particular, in a few moments, that the widespread use of hazardous waste in co-incineration risks leading us to accept the production of such waste, and the risk is particularly great indeed of hearing tomorrow that investments have been made to build co-incinerators which we now have to make profitable, which will lead to a multiplication of the volume of transport of dangerous materials, with all the risks that this entails.
in conclusion, and in conclusion, and while recalling that we must punish infringements and perhaps also help the communities that are standardizing their incinerators for household waste, i would like to stress that our priority is and must remain the prevention of this waste and its recycling as much as possible.
the basic principle is clear: actions co-financed by the structural funds and the cohesion fund should contribute to the protection and improvement of the environment within the european union.
it should be remembered that both the cohesion fund and the structural funds finance major investments in environmental infrastructure such as water treatment plants or waste management systems.
we know from the various reports of the european union and the european environment agency that environmental degradation is continuing.
- i don't think we're gonna waste any more time on this.
they want environmental directives to be applied and integrated into european policies, but they must be integrated as a whole, i.e.
i therefore urge the house to vote in favour of the amendments tabled by our rapporteur and, in doing so, to vote against the position of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
that is why i voted for all the amendments to improve this directive which were tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
- waste management is a very complex task and lobbying is important.
the european union has therefore adopted a comprehensive strategy to address this major environmental and health challenge.
the directive we are discussing today is one of them, since it aims to regulate the thermal treatment of hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
i must say that i have always been personally concerned about the incineration of hazardous and non-hazardous waste being dealt with in the same legislation.
that is why i am today campaigning for measures to be taken to ensure that there is no lowering of the emission standards for hazardous waste.
everyone knows that the volume of waste to be incinerated within the european union will increase.
as for municipal waste, 31 million tonnes were incinerated in 1990, and the figure will be over 56 million this year.
there are several reasons for this, which are related to the increase in the volume of waste produced and the decrease in the amount of waste sent to landfills.
it is well known that the incineration of waste results in emissions of substances which seriously pollute the air, soil and water and are therefore hazardous to health.
the pollutants emitted depend on both the nature of the waste to be treated and the technologies used to treat it.
this is why our concerns are focused on emissions of heavy metals, dioxins and furans.
i would remind you that these plants use hazardous waste as fuel in the production of energy or material elements.
it is true that the provisions of the applicable directives require the use of hazardous waste to be limited to a maximum of 40% of the fuels used.
i would also like to stress that the widespread use of hazardous waste must not lead us to accept the production of such waste.
i strongly reject in advance these arguments which will lead to an increase in the volume of transport of dangerous goods with all the risks this entails for the environment and for safety.
in conclusion, while recalling that infringements must be punished and that communities that standardise their incinerators must be supported, it is important to stress that our priority is and must remain the prevention of the production of waste, whether hazardous or not.
- the impressive volume of waste generated by our industrialized urban societies is undoubtedly one of the great challenges facing the european union in the 21st century: the planet is gradually and insensibly being overwhelmed, and every year no less than 2 000 million tonnes of waste are produced by the member states of our community.
in these circumstances, it is inconceivable to approach the management of this waste according to the law of the least immediate cost: indeed, the flourishing industry (tens of thousands of jobs, billions of euros) which thrives on this growing need will undoubtedly have much to invent to fulfil its mission properly, in particular by avoiding, in turn, to pollute, under the cover of recovery: incineration returns particles of heavy metals and dioxins to the atmosphere, sewage treatment generates unwanted sludge, and some recycled materials have not found their market.
the best possible protection of the environment and health therefore requires significant progress in the implementation of waste management legislation, which is still far from being transposed satisfactorily, according to a recent commission report.
it is therefore necessary to encourage the member states and their industries to make rapid efforts to adapt - from their national legislation to the principles of precautions and environmental protection, and from their techniques to eradicate and not to move the problem of pollution - but at the same time it would be wise for the european parliament to chart realistic paths towards achievable objectives, rather than indulge in its lyrical inclinations and idealistic statements to the detriment of its credibility in environmental matters: it is only by going through the immediate possibilities that it will preserve the chances of achieving the desired sustainability.
as for the rest, and as a local elected official, i hope that a merger and simplification of the community directives will make the regulatory framework within which the departmental waste management plans must be included clearer and easier.
- i examined this report as mayor, since the commission's proposal is mainly concerned with strengthening the existing legislation on the incineration of municipal waste, which, incidentally, shows the usefulness for a member of the european parliament of being able to exercise the highly complementary mandate of mayor, a possibility that the current french government intends to prohibit us in a way that is both unfair and absurd, because it is in no one's interest to cut off the european parliamentarians from the field.
the aim of the directive is to prevent and reduce the negative effects of waste incineration and co-incineration.
the rapporteur agrees: some waste streams are easier to treat in a co-incineration plant.
we believe that some of the proposed amendments to the common position are in fact likely to disrupt the upgrading of existing installations and to penalize the co-incineration of hazardous waste in cement works, which mainly concerns france and belgium.
i would like to make a few comments on municipal waste.
first, it is not appropriate to create confusion as regards the definition of 'mixed municipal waste' in the context of co-incineration.
the equation between 'partially separated waste' and 'untreated mixed municipal waste', as is done in amendment no 14, risks affecting the development of waste sorting systems, which we are seeking to develop, and whose residues or certain fractions would be likely to be co-incinerated.
on the other hand, if article 7-4 were amended, thus removing the qualification of municipal waste as 'untreated', this would amount to prohibiting the co-incineration of fractions of sorted municipal waste (paper, cardboard, etc.)
finally, the lowering of the threshold of 6 tonnes per hour, above which existing domestic waste incineration plants are subject to an atmospheric emission limit value of 200 mg per cubic metre for nox, cannot be accepted, as the planning by local authorities of the adaptation of existing equipment operates on this threshold (see annex v-a).
although we know that incineration is not a perfect solution, it is an important step forward for many communities, which have invested heavily in developing modern municipal waste management.
the waste treatment industry will probably have to invent a lot in the future to avoid polluting in turn.
we will therefore need to develop wider waste management strategies and actively promote research and development in this area which is essential to the lives and future of our local communities.
- according to the texts of the ancients, the disposal of waste was already a problem in ancient rome, although since then, this waste has been the joy of generations of archaeologists.
back then, most waste was biodegradable, which is far from the case today.
we are facing a very important challenge in waste management.
today, three hundred incinerators are responsible for one third of the household and similar waste treated by the french waste disposal system.
incineration generates pollutant emissions: dust, metals and dioxins which need to be controlled by a flue-gas treatment system.
the regulations on the limitation of emissions have gradually become more stringent.
of course, action is needed to ensure that the rules are respected, because health and the environment must be protected, but we do not want the scope of application and the definition of co-incineration plants to be changed.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the new regulations.
on the other hand, changes in legislation on co-incinerators or the specific treatment of hazardous waste risk distorting costs and even leading to unjustified waste tourism.
there is a real risk of favouring one sector at the expense of others by means of ill-adjusted limit values, when we need all four incineration sectors; the commission has already proposed that the member states should set up a specialised unit for hazardous waste, a specialised unit for non-hazardous waste, a specialised unit for co-incineration and a specialised unit for incineration by suitable combustion plants.
the public has the impression that special waste, hazardous waste, non-hazardous waste, municipal waste, all of them will be mixed and treated together in the same furnace, in the same facility.
the sorting of waste would therefore seem to be useless at their level.
in this debate on air quality, we are discussing, through the davies report, the problem of ozone in the ambient air.
all experts agree that it is imperative to raise air quality standards so that citizens throughout the european union are effectively protected against the health risks posed by ozone in the air.
the health effects of ozone are varied: irritation of the eyes, nose and throat, respiratory discomfort, cough, headache, etc.
ozone also contributes to asthma attacks, impaired respiratory function and increased responsiveness of the bronchi.
the aim is to amend existing community legislation on ozone in accordance with the requirements of council directive 96/62/ec on the assessment and management of ambient air quality.
it sets long-term objectives and intermediate target values for ozone in ambient air.
it also introduces a framework of standards to protect human health and the environment.
it also called on the member states to monitor ozone concentrations and to make the results public.
the directive will therefore be a reference instrument for the level of ozone in ambient air.
the first objective is to prevent these ceilings from being exceeded and thus to avoid harmful effects on human health and the environment.
it should be stressed that the commission proposal does not take account of the changes which could result from the commitments made by the community on climate change.
the eu is also proposing a reduction of 8% in greenhouse gases.
and if these commitments are met, member states should be more ambitious in their targets for reducing ozone levels.
in conclusion, i am relatively satisfied with the text of this proposal for a directive because it is an important step towards achieving the main objective set out in the fifth environmental action programme: never exceeding critical levels of ozone in ambient air.
it is part of the community's fifth environmental action programme (eap).
the main objective is to limit emissions of acidifying and eutrophicating pollutants and ozone precursors in order to improve the protection of the environment and human health against the harmful effects of acidification, soil eutrophication and ground-level ozone.
with this in mind, member states should draw up programmes for the progressive reduction of their annual national emissions and report to the commission before the end of 2002. the programmes will be reviewed and updated in 2006. they are also required to prepare for 2010 and regularly update national emission inventories and emission forecasts for so2, nox, voc and nh3.
it suggests, in particular, that stricter standards be set for the emissions of the four pollutants in question.
indeed, when it comes to health and the environment, we must be ambitious if we are to claim to be improving the situation.
the report also calls on the commission to propose further amendments to the directive by 2004. the commission will be able to review the ceilings set in the text, the interim environmental objectives and the new measures taken to ensure compliance with the ceilings.
i deeply regret that we are not engaging in a new type of sustainable development, based on a fairer distribution of wealth, on increasing the purchasing power of households and on the revival of public and social investment.
- mr president, i would like to repeat what i said yesterday, namely that the french socialists will not take part in the vote, considering that this is not the right way to do things, since the only environmental directives that are mentioned concern wild birds, and also natura 2000, and that it would have been appropriate to have a more balanced view.
finally, this agreement ignores most of the proposals of the social, trade union, human rights and environmental organizations of mexico and the european union, which want social, cultural and political collaboration to take precedence over mercantilist aspects.
whether one or the other of the two institutional developments implicit in the debate centred on the charter is taken into account, these groups can take economic decisions that are catastrophic for an entire population, leading, for example, to the closure of factories, the ruin or pollution of an entire region.
we are in favour of a different logic, starting from the requirement that the economy be subordinated to the satisfaction of human and ecological rights and needs.
we share the concern to preserve an environment which we have a duty to pass on intact to our children.
this was the case, for example, with the tecs which are trying to turn our farmers into environmental officials, paid not by the fruits of their labour but by subsidies paid to reward their submission to the brussels gosplan.
we therefore categorically reject the proposal by mrs jackson to link payments from the structural funds to the transposition of community environmental legislation by the member states.
its purpose is to provide the most stable framework possible for the renewal of generations, their education and thus the sustainability of humanity.
the international atomic energy agency has concluded, after several field investigations, that iraq has no capacity to produce nuclear weapons, and this has been confirmed in the reports of the three groups of experts on iraq, as stated today in security council resolution 1284. that is why our resolution calls for the lifting of this embargo.
grain legumes are grown in fields mainly in the south of the european union, as they are well adapted to a very dry climate.
(parliament agreed to the request) the pse and greens/radical alliance groups ask that the debate on the oral question to the commission on night flights and noise pollution be postponed to the april part-session, in order to have a little more time to prepare this dossier.
are we all agreed that the framework agreement is in line with noise standards and is not intended to cover too wide a field, which would mean that we would have to make a number of compromises in this field of noise, to the detriment of i do not know what other pollution, which probably deserves our attention, but which cannot justify abandonment?
the infrastructure needs are considerable, not to mention the environmental challenges.
the importance of this second component was also recalled by the commission in 1998 when it drew up the strategy to support the development of sustainable tourism in developing countries, which envisaged encouraging the specific problem of sex tourism involving children to be taken into account in a structured political dialogue with the countries most affected, particularly at regional level.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0078/2000) by mr turmes, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on electricity produced from renewable energy sources and the internal electricity market (sec{1999) 0470 - c5-0342/1999 - 2000/2002{cos)).
i would remind you that in april last year the commission approved a working document on electricity produced from renewable energy sources, the main objective of which was to provide a comprehensive overview of the support programmes of the various member states for renewable energy sources and to highlight some conclusions and possible options for the adoption of community measures in this field.
this parliament has always been a strong supporter of active policies aimed at promoting renewable energy.
as mr linhkor has pointed out, it is parliament which is partly pushing the commission to take more concrete action in the field of renewable energy and parliament has always acted as a vanguard and a driving force in this field.
we all agree that renewable energy must play a key role in securing energy distribution and helping to reduce dependence on imports and implement the commitments signed in kyoto.
the commission already supports the production of wind, solar, geothermal, biomass and small hydroelectric power stations, in other words all renewable energy sources, except for large hydroelectric power stations, which we do not think should be supported because they have sufficient potential and they have some extremely negative environmental aspects, since the construction of a dam always involves flooding a valley.
but i would like to say to mr turmes that we cannot consider peat as a renewable energy source.
i would like to stress that the report stresses the importance of the objective of doubling the share of renewable energy in gross domestic energy consumption from 6% to 12%.
we are going to do that, but that does not mean that in five years' time we should not review the various systems and focus on those which are likely to be the most effective and which have led to greater development of renewable energy in the countries concerned.
in any case, as you know, on 2 december 1999, at the energy council, i presented a questionnaire to the member states to see the state of play and to be able to present a directive which could achieve the necessary consensus to reach a rapid conclusion, both in parliament and in the council.
the proposal - let us be very clear - simply seeks to encourage the production of electricity from renewable energy sources within the european union.
i would also like to point out that our objective with all this is to have a more secure, more secure and more environmentally friendly energy supply throughout the union.
renewable energy cannot compete with conventional energy at present, especially when one considers that conventional energy has certain external costs which are obviously not internalised.
we must support renewable energy.
i think that we cannot burden other energy sources at the moment - that is my view, although there are others - for reasons of competitiveness and growth.
but we can support renewable energy precisely because of its obvious environmental and emission-reducing characteristics.
in this sense, those who rely on renewable energy must be assured that they will get a fair return on their investment.
this is one of the topics currently being debated in the commission and the most difficult in some cases, with other elements but, in the end, everyone in the commission shares this need to promote green energy.
- the regulation aims to reduce noise pollution around community airports, which are generally close to the economic centres of the union, i.e.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy unanimously supported the european commission in adopting a draft resolution rejecting the indefinite postponement of the entry into force and calling on the united states not to use retaliatory measures.
it should also be borne in mind that the childhood of each individual and the particular circumstances of his family and social environment determine, to a large extent, his adult life.
how could parents, especially mothers, and the elected representatives we are, who are responsible for the sustainability of our societies in this dual capacity, otherwise consider these acts, which are all the more heinous because they are committed against the weakest?
- the final text of mr turmes' report can only make those who are concerned about reconciling a rational energy policy with the vital imperative of preserving the environment uncomfortable.
the general objectives of this report are not the problem: the current situation and the number of disasters it has caused have made us regularly aware of the importance of the issue, and there is no need at this time to insist on the importance of putting an end to an energy policy whose constraints force rusty ships to carry carcinogenic petroleum waste without control and under a flag of complacency.
but here we are, mr turmes' text, under the dual influence of the compromises so dear to this house and the ecological 'credo' which, starting from proven findings, then takes the paths of the most ethereal utopia, turns into a veritable 'gas factory' producing something other than the simple promotion of renewable energies.
mr rapporteur, we shall therefore, out of charity, pass over the indirect effect of your proposal to create a tax on co2 emissions, which highlights the ecological nature of nuclear energy, its 'clean' nature contributing to the preservation of the ozone layer: while we welcome this possible interpretation, we are not sure that this was the aim you were seeking.
you are naively calling for a uniform application of the community rules on state aid, so that all member states and all energy sources are subject to the same provisions: you are therefore hoping, in fact, as soon as possible, to impose a common energy policy, not just a common one, but an identical one, on northern finland, the centre of spain, the southern alps and the outermost regions of the union, and it is symbolic - and to say the least somewhat distressing - that the only amendment tabled in plenary underlines the specific nature of island situations, a proof of the lack of discernment to which your frantic attempt to impose your conception of energy policy leads you.
you have the merit of unveiling your batteries, but in a somewhat peremptory way, by stating that the member states recognize that it is necessary to promote renewable energy sources as a priority: we believe that it is indeed necessary to promote these renewable energy sources, but that the priority is the elaboration of a comprehensive energy plan which does not ignore the existing one, and includes in particular the necessary adaptations of nuclear infrastructures towards greater safety, as it is true that its total eradication, which you seem to hold so dear, is possible only if 7/10ths of the surface of the planet is devoted exclusively to the development of alternative energies as you define them.
science and experts are suffering the consequences of serious crises (mad cow) and even those of future crises because they are not able to tell us what the consequences of their interventions will be: the dissemination of gmos in the environment, the manipulation of living things, genetic manipulation.
so when i read in the summit conclusions that europe is setting itself the aim of promoting a dynamic knowledge-based economy 'capable of sustainable growth accompanied by a quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment', i say 'chiche'.
the reason is to apply to africa today what has worked elsewhere, what worked wonderfully yesterday here in the united states, in europe, the solution that created heavy industry, agriculture, textiles, the solution that has given us growth, sustainable development.
we in the national front have proposed a concrete working method dealing with issues such as water resources, soil erosion, desertification, the management of fisheries resources, livestock, pollution, the control of migratory flows, a marshall plan for the mediterranean and africa which would be financed by customs duties reimbursable to african states in the form of purchase credits opened in european banks.
the decision taken in helsinki has clearly improved the climate between the european union and turkey in a lasting way.
on 11 february 1999, at first reading, we opposed this proposal, arguing that the risks posed by gmos to the environment, animal health and human health were not under control and that the mere application of the precautionary principle should lead, if not to a definitive ban on the spread of these organisms, at least to a moratorium of several years.
while the responsibility of the operator of a dissemination must be formally established, it should also be defined precisely, without haste, to avoid too general environmental liability.
finally, the environmental risks must be assessed through an annual cost-benefit analysis of such gmo releases, an assessment which should be carried out in a transparent manner and extended to animal and plant health as well as to public and private property.
consumers, associations, all those concerned about the environment, health and the risks of gmos dispersed in the environment were waiting for a strong signal from the european parliament.
we know very well that there are no toxicological studies to assess the consequences of the release of gmos into the environment.
the european parliament has just abdicated on three key points, under conditions which i consider shameful: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment.
in their place, an amendment was voted which simply asks that 'special attention be paid to this problem in order to identify and phase out by 2005 antibiotic resistance markers contained in gmos, which may have negative effects on human health and the environment'; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the risk of involuntary gene transfers to other organisms: amendment no 12, which called for measures to prevent such involuntary transfers, was not adopted.
in its place, a much more vague amendment no 38 was voted, which simply asks that we try to assess the various forms of risk that these transfers may entail; on the liability and insurance of persons carrying out voluntary releases of gmos: to our great indignation, amendment no 33 was rejected, which called for those legally responsible for these gmo releases to bear full responsibility for any damage to human health or the environment, and required them to take out sufficient insurance to compensate for any damage.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
- i would like to warmly congratulate mr bowe on his report on the deliberate release of gmos into the environment.
in view of the progress of scientific research in this field, it appeared necessary to clarify the scope of this legislation in order to protect consumer health and the environment.
the proposals from the committee on the environment establish a strict and transparent framework which is perfectly responsive to consumer concerns.
to this end, it is necessary to either impose the observance of minimum distances between fields where gmos are grown and fields reserved for traditional crops, or the obligation to confine gmos crops to special greenhouses depending on the risk of genetic pollution they entail; the dissemination of all gmos containing a marker gene for antibiotic resistance should therefore be prohibited; - strict liability for producers should be imposed.
like the rapporteur, i remain convinced that the person legally responsible for the release of gmos into the environment must bear full civil liability for any damage to human health or the environment.
we have defended this point of view by tabling amendments in the committees on the environment, public health and consumer policy and agriculture and rural development.
we are pleased to note that some of our amendments in the committee on agriculture and the environment have been adopted.
the committee on the environment has amended the commission's proposal on some essential points.
why not do it for the best and most sustainable thing that man has produced, which is fashion and the way he communicates with his fellow men?
at the seattle summit and then at davos, the european citizens were able to see the inability of the wto to reconcile financial priorities with the major interests of the citizens, such as the living environment, working conditions and the quality of consumption, and they would not understand today that their members of parliament are not only calling these values into question but, moreover, are reneging on the commitment made by the union to its acp partners.
it is not a question of practicing protectionism, but rather of protecting the sustainability of a certain way of producing.
i also propose to ensure that the level of quotas does not increase the already existing situation of over-supply on the market, and i finally propose, given that the third quota will now be open to all, to increase the preferential access duty for acp products to a minimum of eur 300. in any event, accompanying measures are essential to ensure the sustainability and viability of community and acp production.
it seemed to us that the choice of maintaining import quotas for ten years, instead of six, supplemented by a tariff preference for the acp, made it possible to prepare more seriously for the future of community and acp producers, who are faced with competition more or less based on social and environmental dumping.
it should be remembered, however, that nearly 60% of the 4 million tonnes of bananas consumed annually in the european union are supplied neither by community producers nor by acp producers, but by third countries in latin america, where american companies operate very large plantations under production conditions that are not respectful of social and environmental issues.
it is pursuing a policy of pyromaniacal firefighting in the balkans, the political, social and ecological consequences of which have not yet been fully appreciated.
one of the objectives of the commission communication 'air transport and the environment - towards sustainable development' is precisely to launch the debate on the desirability of establishing a community framework for decision-making procedures concerning operating restrictions to be imposed on airports in the union on environmental grounds.
as the commission has pointed out in this communication, it is difficult for it to see how uniform and binding rules on operating restrictions, which would apply to all community airports, such as the general ban on night flights, could provide the most balanced solution to the problem of noise pollution at certain airports.
and this framework could include mandatory consultation of all interested parties, sufficient time to adapt to new restrictions and a common basis for assessing the environmental effectiveness of the proposed restrictions.
compared to the hushkits regulation, which merely freezes the current situation with regard to aircraft whose certificate has been renewed, real international rules aimed at phasing out these aircraft would produce better results in terms of environmental protection.
and when it comes to noise pollution in the air and public health in general, there is no need to differentiate between rural and urban areas: every citizen has the right to a night's rest.
- madam commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question of night flights which we are discussing today, and more generally the problem of noise pollution caused by the take-off and landing of aircraft in airport areas, is a very sensitive one; it is a question of a number of areas which need to be addressed.
the european union must continue its efforts in the field of research and technological development, give itself the means to achieve its ambitions in terms of standards to be established, financially and technically encourage all the studies and programmes which make it possible to have common data and to move towards the modernisation of equipment in such a way as to limit environmental nuisances.
the same applies to rural development measures and other more specific economic or environmental programmes, as well as to certain measures to develop softwood timber, which may represent about 50% of the volume of woodland.
it would also be desirable to promote incentives for the energy recovery of secondary wood.
the storm is not just an ecological disaster for everyone and an economic problem for the profiteers of the timber industry.
this tragic event has served as a sad reminder that wood is an industrial raw material, and moreover, a renewable resource of the first order.
sustainable and effective management of our forests requires an economically viable forest.
similarly, only sustainable forestry can establish a competitive timber sector, while making a decisive contribution to the development of rural areas.
subsidiarity would make perfect sense here, for example in the field of protection against air pollution and forest fires, or in the field of forest certification, also in support of the process of implementing a global forest convention.
trans-european transport policy has important implications for the sustainable development of the local economy and the recovery of employment.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's report notes that 1998 was marked by the consolidation of the transeuropean networks and notes the progress made on many projects in the fields of transport, energy, telecommunications and telematics.
with a view to the future revision of the guidelines for trans-european networks, it seems to me necessary to once again draw the commission's attention to the need to give greater importance to improving access to europe's peripheral and landlocked regions, with a particular focus on promoting sustainable transport networks.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have noted that the aim of our colleague's report is to guarantee safety, security, consumer protection, fair competition and environmental protection.
the environment is a key element in the development of aviation and while it is true that fuel efficiency per passenger is increasing day by day, the growth in air transport is outstripping the improvement in efficiency.
the problem of noise pollution is also a serious one.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy was indeed well informed and perceptive when it adopted the report for an opinion, since it adopted the amendments i had tabled.
i wanted to recall this in my amendment no 6 which was adopted in the committee on the environment.
more than the counterfeiting of garden gnomes she mentions, the focus should be on the protection of patents, trademarks and copyrights, which ensure both consumer protection and the sustainability of companies that, upstream, make significant investments in the research and manufacture of quality products.
not to mention the huge environmental impact.
a5-0117/2000 by mrs roth-behrendt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation laying down the rules for the prevention and control of certain transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (com (98) 623 - c4-0025/1999 - 1998/0323 (cod)).
efficient means should therefore be provided to eradicate transmissible spongiform encephalopathies permanently, if possible, namely: to control and treat the waste chain when the waste is used in animal feed; destroy hazardous materials in case of suspicion; prohibit the incorporation of animal protein into the feed of livestock; require traceability by indicating the place of birth and the region of rearing of the animals; establish, at member state level, close monitoring systems, which alone guarantee the effectiveness of control and the transparency of monitoring; impose a rapid and systematic screening procedure and thorough checks, if necessary.
i don't think this is sustainable.
the commission will, however, monitor the situation closely, thanks to the recently adopted measures on random testing for bse and the forthcoming proposal on animal waste.
while here in the european union, and in most of the countries, we have a rail network and rail technology unparalleled anywhere in the world, while a recent study estimates the external costs of road transport in terms of public health, infrastructure and pollution at some eur 480 billion, while the goal of sustainable mobility and respect for the environment is now commonly shared by europeans, rail accounts for only 8.6% of the freight market and 5.8% of passenger traffic.
a hierarchy of objectives which distinguishes between the cross-cutting objectives which must be imposed on all standards: safety, reliability, health, environmental protection, technical compatibility; the objectives inherent in each technical subsystem: infrastructure, energy, rolling stock, etc.
in many european policies we emphasize the need to transfer passenger and, above all, freight transport from road to rail, in order to meet our international commitments, but also to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to reduce environmental pollution in general, to reduce road traffic congestion, to reduce the social cost of road transport, which is paid for indirectly by the public.
it is clear from the reports on interoperability that the train was not considered to be the transport of the future which would solve a number of problems, particularly those relating to the environment.
many of us still remember the conditions under which radioactive waste was transported for years between germany and france.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the savary report is in keeping with the logic of sustainable development.
in the long term, the increase in truck transport will pose huge problems, such as congestion, new routes, safety and pollution.
there is a second fundamental point on which i hope desperately to convince my colleagues in the next five years - now four - that we cannot pretend to want to respect the kyoto agreement in the year 2008. we know, and the report acknowledges, that it is contradictory at the moment to reconcile a 3% growth target with the rejection of the burning obligation to invest in energy savings, in transport systems, in improved housing, in order to make the kyoto target compatible with the 3% growth target.
i would say that in this case - as mrs randzio-plath also said when she spoke of the need to compare the quality of programmes and the strengthening of harmonisation, or as mr gasòliba i böhm said when he spoke, for example, of deepening tax reforms - in our current scheme there is a reasonable possibility of achieving the objectives set by the stability and growth programmes, and we think that we must pay more attention to what we call sustainability and quality of public finances.
however, this objective success, especially in reducing public deficits, is less ambitious - certainly because of a better economic environment - and this better economic environment must be used not to go backwards but to move in the right direction.
mr karas touched on the greek problem and the sustainability problems of the convergence criteria.
- the gonzaléz álvarez report concerns the reduction of co2 emissions, a necessary objective, particularly in the fight against global warming.
such an objective would require europe to devise effective means of limiting these emissions, either by binding standards, as is the case for other pollutants, or by incentives, with controls and penalties.
in addition, the increase in the number of vehicles plays a major role in the increase in co2 emissions.
that is why i supported the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the aim is to gradually create the conditions for the uninterrupted movement of convoys on the 15 national networks: free movement objective; to eliminate the current additional costs and delays in order to improve the competitiveness and reliability of the railway in relation to its competitors: the objective of sustainable mobility; the aim is to create, through the harmonization of railway components, the conditions for a single european market in railway equipment: an economic and technological objective.
the purpose of the directive under discussion today was to publish technical specifications for interoperability (tsis) for six subsystems (maintenance, infrastructure, energy, rolling stock, operation, control and command), to start work on component standardisation in collaboration with cen, cenelec and etsi, and to establish in each member state a list of notified bodies responsible for assessing the conformity of components produced by industry.
national differences are a major handicap to the development of rail transport in europe, despite the many advantages of this mode of transport in terms of sustainable development, pollution and safety.
not only do the countries of the south lack the financial resources to pay off their debts, but the international economic order, which has imposed on the world a conception that has gone mad with liberalism, deprives most of our partners in the south - i am thinking in particular of those in north africa and sub-saharan africa - of access to the conditions for any sustainable development.
how does the commission intend to ensure that the funds obtained through debt cancellation are properly invested in poverty eradication and sustainable development?
i would like to say one last thing: liberalization is not an end in itself, it is a matter of ensuring the transition by all and for all to the information society by creating sustainable jobs, which is far from always the case in this field.
it is also necessary to make up for the lack of a genuine policy and strategy in europe for the effective use of space systems to monitor the environment and ensure safety, protect natural resources, detect or prevent natural or man-made disasters, and combat fraud.
we are opposed to biotechnology, which is concerned with genetic manipulation or the patentability of living things, but we are in favour of research focusing on so-called sustainable technologies, particularly in the fields of the environment and health.
for example, the one developed through the eco-sites, in the field of ecotechnologies, according to the criteria of sustainable development is adapted to local development and support for smes/smes.
mr president, commissioner, it is true that a great deal of research is needed to keep the latin in the 27 recitals and 60 paragraphs of a report which the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy has made obese and in which everything is found, although it is sometimes vague and often imprecise.
the situation is hopeless for the victims and the very nature of the environment in which they work often leads them to despair and addiction.
it is therefore up to us to think, to act with wisdom and caution, not to offend the sensitivities, but not to waste time.
nor does he care about the damage that the race for maximum profit is causing to the environment, to safety, and to the working conditions of his employees.
there is still a long way to go, but we must also remember that the jobs created must be sustainable and of good quality.
in this respect, we should welcome the report by mr maaten and the votes on amendments by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection which improve the draft directive.
cigarettes contain tar, nicotine, carbon monoxide, additives, citrates, tartrates, acetates, nitrates, sorbates, phosphates, even fungicides, and all of these eventually lead to lung cancer, cardiovascular disease, sudden infant death: there are 500,000 people who die every year.
the proposal to tighten up the standards for maximum levels of nicotine, tar and carbon monoxide in cigarettes must naturally be seen as one of the ways of ensuring better protection of public health.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has been denouncing these budgetary choices for years.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it introduces harmonisation rules for nicotine, the addictive agent in cigarettes, and for carbon monoxide, the agent linked to cardiovascular disease.
i now turn to the report on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading (a5-0148/2000) on the council's common position with a view to adopting a european parliament and council decision establishing a community framework for cooperation in the field of accidental or intentional marine pollution (12612/1/1999/rev1 - c5-0101/2000 - 1998/0350 (cod)) (committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy) (rapporteur: mrs mckenna).
- mr president, i agree with you that i will welcome the work done by our colleague, mrs mckenna, on this framework for community cooperation on marine pollution, which should be an interesting tool, as the recent maritime disaster off the french coast has shown us.
the fuel continues to leak from the hull, which is lying about 100 metres down, and contrary to what was stated six months ago, this oil continues to pollute our coasts and poison the marine environment.
the consequences for the environment and wildlife have been dramatic and the threats still exist.
this cooperation framework will therefore improve existing local or national capacities, in particular by creating better conditions for response, not only in the event of accidental pollution but also in the event of intentional pollution.
this allows for the inclusion of wild gas discharges and any other source of pollution.
let me stress today that the five compromise amendments must be adopted and that we must not delay the establishment of community cooperation, which will be an excellent tool and which the european citizens are eagerly awaiting, concerned about the protection of our marine environment.
mr president, it is more necessary than ever to discuss today the question of a community framework for cooperation in the field of accidental or intentional marine pollution, at a time when the preparatory work for pumping the oil off the coast of brittany is just beginning.
the few measures which are presented to us today as a community framework for cooperation concern only the management of the consequences of pollution, mainly in the field of information, and are silent on prevention.
mr president, the erika disaster has at least served to underline the importance of european cooperation in the field of accidental marine pollution.
france did not have enough anti-pollution ships to deal with this black tide.
we are also in favour of a broad definition of accidental marine pollution including radioactive pollution, munitions and outgassing.
today, the owner of the potentially polluting product is not held responsible for its pollution.
how many times have we not been moved by the consequences of this disaster in this house and how many times have we not wondered about the inability of the union and the member states to respond quickly to the expectations of the victims and to respond to the ecological damage?
we cannot wait for another disaster, this time nuclear, to do something about it, because we know how oil reacts, but we do not yet know how radioactive waste dumped on the seabed would react.
- (sv) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, and in particular mrs mckenna, for the work they have done on this important question: how can we combat marine pollution, both accidental and intentional, better within the european union?
since the first reading of this proposal by the european parliament, the erika disaster has occurred in france, which has probably caused the most serious damage to the marine environment in europe.
i myself went there in january and saw the dramatic effects of this pollution on people, animals and the environment.
the lessons we have learned from the erika disaster show that there is much to be learned about how to deal with major pollution accidents.
these amendments improved the text and in particular defined better the type of accidental pollution covered by the decision, in particular pollution from fuel discharges.
amendment no 16 recognises the important role of environmental non-governmental organisations in this area.
the other amendments are problematic for the following reasons: amendment no 2 and parts of amendments nos 6, 10 and 24 introduce a specific reference to pollution caused by radioactive substances.
this text contains formulations on community measures to be taken in the event of an accident involving ionising radiation pollution, according to which member states must draw up action plans and develop forms of cooperation and networks.
we have therefore a number of instruments and regulations which come into play in the event of possible marine pollution by radioactive materials.
amendments nos 5 and 9 contain a definition of the concept of accidental marine pollution.
this issue was discussed at length in the council, where it was finally concluded that the proposed decision would not apply to continuous flows from sources of pollution located inland.
the commission has taken this view, because it was never its intention to include this type of pollution in the text.
i hope that your contribution and support today will confirm this position and that we can therefore reach a decision on this crucial issue for the marine environment soon.
the agenda calls for the report (a5-0159/2000) by mr vidal-quadras roca, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission to the european parliament and the council on the impact of the nuclear past on the activities of the jrc under the euratom treaty - decommissioning of obsolete nuclear installations and waste management (com (99) 114 - c5-0214/1999 - 1999/2169 (cos))
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
- madam president, we should welcome the fact that the commission is finally taking a comprehensive and thorough approach to the problem of the dismantling of the obsolete nuclear installations of the joint research centre and the management of radioactive waste.
however, the jrc's nuclear activities present us with a double problem: the problem of reducing this type of activity, which was on the agenda when the jrc was set up under the auspices of euratom, and the problem of the weight of the nuclear past, with the question of dismantling, the cost of which can be estimated at more than eur 500 million all together, even though this raw figure is likely to be underestimated, as is usually the case with nuclear energy.
secondly, there must be a serious reassessment of research appropriations and the cost of research on decommissioning, hence the impact on the cost of nuclear energy, which must also be reassessed.
however, we would draw the commission's attention to the fact that these are not just budgetary problems but also technical issues and that the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy has a say in this trilogue.
member states are also making a major effort to develop these two dimensions, which are fundamental to security and stability, in a sustainable and parallel way.
- mr president, i welcome this timely and useful debate, introduced by my dear friend mr brok, as usual, with great talent and energy, in a thoughtful and effective speech.
parliament is aware of the priority which the commission and i are giving to using our present powers with much more energy and know-how than in the past.
it would be an urban, environmental and therefore human disaster!
the behaviour of tobacco companies, so contrary to the interests of society, is similar to the behaviour of all the big oil, asbestos, arms and food companies, which are willing to risk harm to the population or the environment in order to make a little more profit.
i am in favour of the commission's proposal and also of the amendments to the report by the committee on the environment which improve the protection of public health.
- the programme we have discussed today is aimed at organizing the dismantling of the nuclear installations of the joint research centre and the management of waste arising from its nuclear activities.
it is worth recalling that the commission has proposed to us that this operation be financed by using, at the end of each year, unspent appropriations from heading 3. it would use a hotline in the current subsection b4 (energy, nuclear safety control, environment) for this purpose.
but we must be prepared to meet its ambitions, especially when it comes to nuclear energy.
as mr dupuis reminded us, sustainable economic development and political stability depend above all on strong institutions and not on strong men.
the commission has promised that the new programming period for the structural funds will focus on improving transport networks, particularly in peripheral or landlocked regions, and on creating sustainable and efficient transport systems that offer a balance between the different modes of transport.
on the substance, ladies and gentlemen, as regards investment in transport, your rapporteur calls for a better balance in favour of sustainable transport, in particular rail.
the commissioner for regional policy, who was once his country's minister for the environment, is certainly very much in favour of this approach and will personally ensure that it is followed, particularly in the programming of the cohesion fund for the next six years.
it was also stressed by mrs schörling and mrs damião, and you can be sure that i will be working on increasing the focus on sustainable transport, particularly rail, which has been evident for several years now.
as regards other investments which can contribute to the objective of sustainable transport, i am talking about ports and airports, the commission wishes to observe - let me say this frankly - a certain degree of caution with regard to air transport and certain forms of maritime transport.
the commission will, however, support the approach to sustainable transport with all its strength.
as regards the environment, your rapporteur stresses the need to take better account - as mr mastorakis has also said very strongly - of the serious problem of the treatment of solid waste and household waste.
the fund has so far focused on three sectors which are the subject of community directives: drinking water treatment, waste water treatment and solid waste treatment.
the priority was to enable the member states to meet the deadlines set under the waste water directive, and we know that the problems i have just mentioned, particularly the question of waste or water treatment, are difficult in the countries concerned.
as regards the specific problems of the environment, i would like to say, particularly with regard to the islands, that i am very keen to support investment in renewable energy sources, and i have made this known to the member states.
with regard more specifically to the issue of solid waste, 14% of the budgetary envelope was allocated to its treatment, which represents a significant increase compared to the period 1993-1997. however, i share your rapporteur's concern to use the most modern and environmentally friendly technologies for this purpose.
i have deliberately wanted to give the commission's consent to the use - not just any way or for any purpose - but to the use of the cohesion fund for biodiversity and nature protection.
you will also see that i will continue to be concerned, in the context of objective 2, objective 1 and the cohesion fund, that part of the appropriations should be used for the benefit of biodiversity.
we must first of all act in the name of quality, in the name of seasonal jobs, but also in the name of common sense, rural life, the environment, beauty.
- report (a5-0147/2000) of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (2000) 0502 - c4-0414/2000) for a directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to cosmetic products (presented by the commission)
in accordance with rule 69, the rapporteur may request, if parliament so decides, that the vote be postponed and the matter is deemed to have been referred back to the committee responsible for reconsideration.
he had therefore invested himself with energy and sincerity in the development of his city and its status as a european capital, by creating the real estate infrastructure and developing a genuine policy of welcoming.
this is an essential basis for our social protection systems, which are based on the following four fundamental pillars: first, preparing the european union for a knowledge-based economy through action instruments in the fields of the information society, science and technology, training and education; secondly, the achievement of the economic reforms essential to our competitiveness and innovation, by deepening the process of economic reforms necessary for the creation of a fully integrated internal market or by adopting new innovation and enterprise policies; thirdly, the affirmation of social cohesion, based on employment, on reforms to ensure the sustainability of our social protection models, on the fight against exclusion; and finally, fourthly, the coordination of macroeconomic policies with a view to guaranteeing at the same time the stability we have achieved and which has been the basis for the euro, through a reduced rate of inflation, the reduction of public deficits, but also by establishing a macroeconomic framework more favourable to growth, employment, innovation and entrepreneurship.
thanks to the excellent cooperation established with the commission, the santa maria da feira european council has already produced the action plan for the information society, the first set of decisions on the european science area, some decisive elements in the affirmation of our policy towards enterprises (the charter for small enterprises), the multiannual programme, a set of measures foreseen for the reform of markets, in particular financial markets, the 2000 initiative of the european investment bank for innovation, entrepreneurship and the information society, the reports of the high-level group on the sustainability of our social protection and the fight against social exclusion, which led to the creation of a social protection committee already in operation and finally the commission's initiative on the fight against exclusion.
i am referring to the commission's report on combating exclusion, the report of the high-level group, now the social protection committee, also on social exclusion and the sustainability of pensions.
(the minutes were approved) the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the agreements which bind the union to many third world countries are designed to enable them to achieve sustainable and balanced development.
we agree with the idea of promoting trade, we agree with the draft european food safety agency, we agree with the strengthening of maritime safety, we agree with the emphasis on the fight to protect our environment, we agree with the reiterated desire to remove sport from the market criteria; finally, we agree with the inclusion of economic and social rights in the charter of fundamental rights, which we hope will serve as a reference point in future struggles and as a recognised reference for a community of values throughout the continent.
we believe that public services in the french way, which are particularly structural in terms of spatial planning and social cohesion, such as postal, railway, energy services, etc., must be defended against the commission's position.
global warming is one of them.
- mr president, the european union's environmental policy continues to surprise me.
the structural funds would be reserved for countries which comply with environmental directives, which is a discriminatory measure.
on the other hand, you can legally add vegetable fats to chocolate, use gmos, transport oil and its most toxic waste on any rotten river, be banned from the united states, and pollute the atlantic coast with impunity.
in february i proposed to you, but in vain, that the funds used for the purchase of land should be reserved for public bodies, since public money should not, in our opinion, be used to build up private land holdings, even under the guise of environmental protection.
it was adopted by conciliation on 29 june 2000. it should be noted that the objective of the draft framework directive is to preserve, protect and improve the quality of the environment and to use natural resources prudently and rationally.
it sets out the basic principles of a sustainable water policy in the european union and is based on the treaty principles, in particular those of precaution, preventive action and priority of remediation of environmental damage at source, as well as on the polluter-pays principle.
it should be noted that this project should apply to both surface and groundwater and that the aim is to prevent further degradation, to promote sustainable use based on the long-term protection of available water resources and to help mitigate the effects of floods and droughts.
on the other hand, it should be noted that any such initiative must be subject to both socioeconomic and environmental evaluation.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our colleague mr mombaur's report deals with energy markets and, as everyone has understood, calls for their liberalisation to be accelerated.
personally, when i think of energy, i think of long-term security of supply, i think of guaranteeing public service missions, i think of contributing to sustainable and environmentally friendly development.
i would therefore have liked to see your report, mr rapporteur, take account of the provisions of the treaties on services of general interest and the proposals for measures to guarantee access to the public energy service for all citizens.
i would like to stress that the public energy service is a factor of social cohesion, of the fight against exclusion, of balanced regional development, of respect for the environment, of security and, finally, a condition for national and european independence.
mr president, the document on the second report from the commission to the council and the european parliament on the state of liberalisation of energy markets takes account of only two elements: competition and the deepening of the single energy market.
i would also like to dispute another claim: the fall in the price of energy.
the need for energy is a basic need.
we believe that only a genuine public and democratic control would make it possible to rationalize energy production and consumption while ensuring respect for the environment and flat-rate compensation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by our colleague mr mombaur on the state of the liberalisation of energy, electricity and gas markets has the merit of summarizing the various commission communications in this field.
firstly, the completion of an internal market in the energy sector is enshrined in the treaties and must be achieved.
that is why i believe that we must now support the commission in its efforts, as proposed in mr mombaur's report, to obtain a precise and binding timetable for the complete liberalisation of energy markets for the applicant countries, of course, but first and foremost for the member states.
mr president, rail transport is indeed very important for the mobility of citizens, the development of trade in europe, and the environment and spatial planning.
- we are now at the end of the debate with the council on the defence of the budget line for the environment in the european union.
i dare hope that the weakness of this budget line is not a pale reflection of the union's environmental policy, and i say this without calling into question the considerable work of the environment dg or the commissioner, who are doing what they can with what they have.
but here we will repeat as often as necessary that to conduct, or even to build, a genuine european environmental policy, the funds must be allocated accordingly.
as long as the budget line for the environment remains in this order, the environment will not be taken seriously, in comparison with the agricultural budgets or the structural funds, which, moreover, still often contribute to environmental degradation.
the explosion of road transport in the union is accompanied by an explosion of pollution of all kinds and of greenhouse gas emissions in particular.
when the council and the commission take environmental policy seriously, the budget line they propose in the general budget will be commensurate with the challenges we are facing.
this applies both to environmental policy projects and to the human resources to be made available to dg environment to implement them.
we can only welcome such a goal, which is desirable from both an economic and an ecological point of view.
it was essential to adapt this text to the new international economic and financial environment.
they are obliged to pursue the objective set out in the directive, namely the prevention of major accidents and the limitation of their consequences for man and the environment, in particular by controlling the establishment of new establishments, the alterations to existing establishments and new developments (communication routes, living areas, etc.)
i should like to take this opportunity to thank mrs hieronymi very warmly and very sincerely for her determination to broaden the scope, the objective and the means of this programme, not to mention all the energy she has put into our joint work.
in addition, we are increasingly receiving collective petitions on environmental issues, and with the extension of the union's powers, it is possible that the number of such petitions and the areas covered will increase.
this democratization is welcome, but it raises important questions for the future: increased traffic, congestion at airports, congestion in the skies and disregard for the environment, particularly in terms of noise pollution.
for the former, periods of instability mean fewer obligations in social, fiscal and environmental matters because the state is then very weak and conflicts favour the arms industry because political groups will have to be well armed.
regulation no 3582/86 concerns the protection of forests against air pollution and regulation no 2158/92 has established a framework for combating forest fires.
the nordic countries, which provided the bulk of the troops during the 1998 enlargement, are particularly affected by air pollution, the stress of climate tensions and acidification of the soil, while the southern states suffer more from the effects of desertification, drought and fires.
the fight against air pollution is taking on a new dimension in the light of the guidelines adopted by the commission on climate change, biodiversity and sustainable management.
while air pollution has lost its burning relevance in the face of these new priorities, it is a coherent part of global challenges.
the commission's reaction, at least, was relatively swift (request for an opinion from the scientific committee, toxicity, ecotoxicity and environmental impact studies, emergency ban decision and proposal to amend the relevant directives), but it was very lax in relation to the issues at stake and the objectives of ensuring a high level of consumer protection and human health protection.
i supported the amendments tabled by the socialist members of the committee on the environment.
the author's exclusive concern is, under the guise of unifying the energy markets in europe, to turn the whole sector over to private profit.
the unification of energy production and distribution throughout the european union, the planning and rationalisation of both, could be progress, but on the condition that the whole remains a public service exclusively concerned with meeting needs, and not with maximising private profit.
by proposing to take stock of the transposition of the december 1996 directives on electricity and the june 1998 directives on gas, the mombaur report clearly betrays the ultra-liberal philosophy of the commission, which, under the guise of achieving the internal energy market to the greatest benefit of consumers, calls for the complete opening of these markets to full competition.
why create a single energy market when electricity and gas are not comparable (in terms of production/distribution, market development, concept of public service)?
indeed, air corridors and airports are crowded, delays are commonplace with one in three planes not arriving on time, and all this is accompanied by a cortege of noise and environmental nuisance.
all the colleagues who have spoken have said this and, like you, have regretted that short sea shipping suffers from a bad image because of its slowness or inefficiency, whereas it is the answer to traffic congestion, the high cost of infrastructure and the environmental cost.
however, as you said, it has advantages in terms of cost, energy, efficiency, regional cohesion, the environment and even intermodality, because it is an ideal means of implementing multimodal transport.
i am thinking of the problems of traffic congestion, the high cost of infrastructure and the environmental cost.
while this success is undeniable, it is not yet up to the potential and advantages of this mode of transport: cost advantages: it is the most economical mode of transport; benefits in terms of energy consumption per tonne/kilometre; efficiency advantages: it is the most efficient mode of transport in terms of investment in transport capacity; advantages in terms of regional cohesion: it is the mode best suited to serving europe's peripheral regions; environmental benefits: it is a less polluting mode of transport than land transport; advantages in terms of intermodality: it is an ideal means of implementing multimodal transport .
i would like to ask you to observe a minute's silence in the final tribute to the victims, in support of their families and loved ones and of all the democratic women and men of spain, and in particular of the basque country, who, despite this climate of terror, continue to believe in political dialogue, in the fundamental values of civilised societies and in the final victory of democracy.
as regards monday: as regards the report by mr valdivielso de cué, on behalf of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, on the meda programme, the group of the european people's party and the european democrats would like to ask that the vote on this report be postponed until the next partsession in brussels so that certain technical problems can be resolved.
the agenda calls for the following reports to be discussed jointly: - report (a5-0204/2000) by mr valdivielso de cué - meda, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1488/96 on financial and technical support measures (meda) for the reform of economic and social structures in the framework of the euro-mediterranean partnership (com ((1999) 494 - c5-0023/2000-1999/0214 (cns)) - report (a5-0205/2000) by mr piétrasanta, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the report from the commission on the implementation of the meda programme - annual report 1998 (com (99) 291 - c5-0117/1999 - 1999/2120 (cos))
the rapporteur, mr president, is the concrete implementation, the instrument of our euro-mediterranean policy, which was defined by the barcelona convention in november 1995, followed by several forums, notably those in malta, naples and stuttgart.
the report is submitted to the hughes procedure, and we have fully incorporated the proposals adopted unanimously not only by our committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, which is the committee responsible for the subject, but also by the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy and the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism.
secondly, the choice of projects must be made more democratically, with greater participation by civil society, ngos, who have constantly expressed this wish, in particular at a symposium held on 29 june in brussels entitled 'towards a sustainable meda'.
thirdly, to pay close attention to the respect for human rights, since this cooperation is not only aimed at economic progress but also, and fundamentally, at democracy, freedom, peace, the elimination of inequalities and sustainable development.
fifthly, with regard to the six priorities of the partnership: environment, water policy, industry, energy, transport and the information society, we believe that it is necessary to revive the smap programmes on the environment, which were too much neglected until now.
efforts should be made to promote renewable energy, to help smes and to promote transport.
we must support the sustainable development plans of each country.
(applause) i would like to thank
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
these gross imbalances are accumulating and taking us further away from the objectives of peace, democracy and sustainable development contained in the barcelona declaration.
sustainable development is almost absent from the european union's humanitarian policy, little preparation for natural disasters, no prevention of conflicts.
although we are generally satisfied with the european union's humanitarian policy, and we generally support mr imbeni's report, it should be more broadly integrated into a framework of sustainable development.
that raises serious political and environmental questions about issues such as humanitarian intervention which are going to dominate much of the foreign policy agenda in the years ahead.
finally, although the problem of development is multi-dimensional and the european union is not the only remedy, we must continue and intensify our action in order to lay the foundations for sustainable global development and contribute to the eradication of poverty.
at a time when efforts are being made to establish financing systems that guarantee the sustainability and improvement of services, the burden of aids appears disproportionate for communities already heavily burdened by the economic crisis, the backwardness of development, the lack of health structures and the absence of a system of collective social protection.
the question of hiv, which causes aids, is therefore at the very heart of sustainable development.
finally, a proposal for a special session of the un general assembly will be devoted to aids before may 2002. the presidency will support initiatives to find sustainable solutions to the problem of comprehensive and respectful care for sick people, through concrete projects and partnership agreements with the countries concerned.
the council has not accepted three of our proposals concerning the establishment of a precautionary principle for the development of nuclear energy, particularly in earthquake-prone areas.
the intensified political dialogue at all levels that has shaped the post-helsinki climate has made a decisive contribution to this.
i am therefore pleased to inform you that the protocol with the republic of guinea contains important innovations aimed in particular at promoting the precautionary principle and the sustainable use of resources.
the aim is to help guinea to promote bilateral fisheries agreements with other countries and to reduce the private agreements that often undermine sustainable fisheries management.
- madam nicole fontaine, president of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me express my great satisfaction with the dialogue we had this morning on the peace process and the great interest of europe in the success of this process and in the creation of a climate conducive to the establishment of this peace.
our priority at that time was to revive long-absent or hidden hopes by preparing the regional political and economic environment and climate for the establishment of regional development and economic cooperation relationships that would allow the flow of investments and projects to our region, which had been exhausted by conflict and bled by the exorbitant cost of wars.
europe for us is responsibility for the environment.
after so many years when we israelis felt that europe did not fully understand us – and the other way around – i have the feeling that this is a different environment in which we are carrying on a dialogue.
for a long time the circumstances and the political environment were almost impossible.
some of our colleagues have mentioned it, it is a preliminary to the erika maritime package and in many ways it proposes to deal with an even more serious problem, namely those acts of ecological piracy called 'gassing' which are dumping oil and a lot of waste on our coasts.
if we want to solve this problem, we must move towards a universal, compulsory charging system, separate from the waste treatment act.
and i believe that if we provide aid for the equipment of waste treatment facilities in small ports, we will ensure the success of this directive.
mr president, the report by our colleague mr bouwman, the result of a long procedure, has become even more topical in france because of the sinking of the oil tanker erika, which occurred in the meantime, and in which the competent minister for the environment did not think it worth interrupting his holiday.
this report is a useful tool in preventing pollution of the sea, since it deals with the de-gasing of the sea.
although less publicized than shipwrecks, emissions are the largest source of pollution.
it must be admitted, however, that community legislation would not be necessary if the member states of the union, which are all parties to the international convention for the prevention of pollution from ships, known as marpol, had taken the necessary measures.
it is not enough to blame unscrupulous shipowners or masters - there are certainly some - it is necessary to take into account the fact that port discharges are often impossible because of the lack of the necessary facilities and that the problem of storage is also extremely difficult to solve, a problem which itself gives rise to that of waste treatment.
we shall, however, vote for this report because it seems to be moving in the direction of better pollution prevention and because, as a general rule, it leaves the member states a certain latitude in the choice of the means of implementation.
the commission madam president, with regard to this report, we can accept amendments nos 1, 5 (in its second and fifth parts), 6, 12, 28 (in its first part) and 29. we can accept, in principle, with some changes to the text, amendments nos 9 (in its part concerning the requirement to justify that the strategic environmental study is not necessary), 10 (in its parts one and two), 15, 17, 18, 20, 23, 24 and 25. the commission cannot accept, in other words rejects, amendments nos 2, 3, 4, 5 (in their first, third and fourth parts), 7, 8, 9 (in the part on the requirement to justify the need for a strategic environmental assessment), 10 (in its third part), 11, 13, 14, 16, 19, 21, 22, 26, 27, 28 (in its second part), 30 and 31.
european citizens are deeply concerned about the pollution of the seas and coasts of the member states.
the european parliament echoed these legitimate concerns and amended the directive proposed by the european commission on the management of waste from ships in order to hold member states accountable.
it suggested, as an alternative to the polluter-pays principle, which can only be seen to be ineffective, the introduction of a system of fees paid by all ships at each passage through a port, whether or not they use waste disposal facilities.
this system would encourage ships to discharge their operating residues or other waste in ports rather than off-shore.
the part of the costs not covered by the fee, if any, will be covered on the basis of the types and quantities of operational waste actually deposited by the ship.
in addition, within three years of the implementation of the directive, the commission shall submit an assessment report on the impact of the diversity of cost recovery on the marine environment.
the european commission, aware of the untimely nature of uncontrolled discharges at sea, and even of the unacceptable behaviour of certain crews who take advantage of a tragic accident to dump their extra waste with impunity, thus aggravating marine pollution, proposes to concentrate its action on installation in european ports.
all ports must be equipped with facilities capable of treating ship's waste and at the same time every ship calling at one of these ports must be made to bear the costs of receiving and treating waste (up to 90% for parliament but, finally, following the compromise with the council, up to at least 30%), whether or not it uses the facilities.
if we are to have a genuine ambition to clean up the oceans and preserve the natural balance for future generations, then we will have to consider more radical measures, particularly in terms of the financial support for these facilities, the need to avoid distortions of competition between ports; in short, we will have to consider the establishment of a genuine public waste disposal service.
- the green group welcomes the fact that, on the proposal of the rapporteur, a member of the group, more stringent provisions are being laid down on the establishment of port facilities for the collection and treatment of waste from ships.
it is not that, under the pretext of building 'green vessels' capable of treating all their waste at sea, essentially by incineration, this behaviour, which has no real possibility of control, allows the anti-pollution legislation to be circumvented: dumping of allegedly incinerated oil and household waste, lack of selectivity and contribution to the greenhouse effect.
these proposals are in line with the proposals for the next directive on marine pollution which i am referring back for opinion on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
the compulsory part of the scope concerns plans and programmes which govern project authorisations in the sectors of agriculture, forestry, fisheries, energy, industry, transport, waste management, water management, telecommunications, tourism, land use planning and urban planning.
i agree that environmental protection and its consideration is a necessity, indeed an obligation, but our states, in the name of subsidiarity, are better placed to ensure it, and we will not support amendments aimed at widening the scope of application which must be limited to only plans and programmes which are likely to have significant effects.
here the rapporteur, under the pretext of environmental concern, wants to deal with all the policies of the states.
the importance of taking the environment into account when assessing policies is not in doubt, but it is inconceivable to apply the same procedure to it, especially as imposed by the european union.
we trust our states and we defend the common position; the 'environment' alibi which is only the instrument of the union's intervention in all the areas, here called 'political'.
using the environment to infiltrate everything from our water pipes to the conduits of our national policies!
a mediterranean policy that is up to the demographic, environmental, climate, islamic and cultural challenges is a grand strategic vision fixing, integrating, stabilising and ordering the mediterranean around original and intergovernmental institutions with great common sectors to explore: water, environment, migration, deforestation, etc.
the first victims of these unanticipated changes are, of course, the employees who, despite the return of growth and the improvement in the general economic situation, continue to live in a climate of insecurity.
- maximum protection for all persons producing audiovisual works and, therefore, the possibility of better protection of intellectual property rights, copyright and related property rights: copyright protection is undermined in the digital environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the water quality of the community is not affected by the pollution of the environment.
parliament was somewhat concerned that this new directive would be an opportunity to postpone the requirements for pollution control and immediate measures to prevent pollution of groundwater.
if the member states do not do this - it is a kind of sword of damocles - if we reach 75 per cent of the level of pollution of the standards for good groundwater status, then the member states will have to reverse the trend.
in general terms, the directive takes account of parliament's wish to ensure that member states' actions can reverse the trend of increasing pollution in the groundwater.
i would stress the importance of integrated water management in two respects: firstly, i would like to see studies continued on the establishment of a unified water and environment management system in the various countries and at union level; secondly, we must ensure that the proposals of the directive are implemented and encouraged, not only at union level, but also in the aid we grant to third countries under water projects, the impact of which is in a hydrographic ecosystem involving the countries of the union, but also those participating in the meda agreements, for example, which must be taken into account in the map projects and even others, such as the upper nile basin or switzerland.
mr president, the fight against noise pollution and gas emissions is a just fight which we support, because it pursues the objectives of the well-being of the people and the quality of the environment.
however, the reduction of these noise or gas emissions must be limited to a laudable search for technical solutions which are beneficial to all.
it is a purely ideological measure with no direct effect on the environment.
we would prefer a rational measure which respects everyone's interests and is beneficial to economic development while respecting the environment as much as possible.
it's sustainable development, when we reduce emissions and reduce noise.
where is the economic realism in demanding new technology to replace machines that are still functional and in good condition in the name of environmental protection?
on the contrary, this activity is burdensome for the environment, since the manufacture of materials and the construction of machinery must be carried out before the economic life of the existing equipment has been completed, and the scrapping of usable machinery adds to the burden on the environment.
as regards the questions to the commission and the council, you know that, in the face of the oil shock affecting france, as well as the whole of europe, the french government yesterday took a series of measures which are seriously altering the conditions of competition and the conditions for combating the greenhouse effect, and which therefore have very serious immediate european consequences.
in line with the polluter pays principle, member states will have to integrate environmental costs into the price of water.
the issues involved are as much public health and a long-term supply of clean drinking water as biodiversity and the preservation of landscapes.
- all proposals for improving the environment in europe are welcome.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one.
this directive is a step in the right direction, but it will require more precise rules to reduce pollution of upstream water.
- i have already had the opportunity to speak on several occasions on this complex issue, where not only important economic interests but also and above all environmental protection are at stake.
the proposal for a directive on end-of-life vehicles, presented in 1997, aims to prevent the creation of waste from vehicles and to promote the reuse, recycling and recovery of vehicles and their components in order to reduce the amount of waste from end-of-life vehicles that is landfilled or incinerated without energy recovery.
it is regrettable that neither this directive nor the directive on the landfill of waste has addressed this problem, which has disastrous consequences for the environment in large parts of europe.
- we can only congratulate and support our colleague, mr de roo, on his efforts to include noise pollution in the framework of environmental protection.
the increase in road traffic is unfortunately not limited to pollution from end-of-life vehicles and their recycling, which, despite their global nature, has not yet been solved, nor to their damage and their harmfulness to the air we breathe, nor even to the consequent and consequent global warming of the climate.
road traffic also produces considerable and incessant noise pollution, which millions of road and highway users and pedestrians have to deal with on a daily basis.
the proposals of mr de roo are therefore intended to highlight a form of pollution which is generally hidden and for this we fully support him.
governments and industry are working to combat noise pollution, which can cause illness.
- i welcome the commission communication which stresses that the environmental impact of air transport is increasing rapidly at local, regional and global levels.
the preservation of the environment, the quality of life and the health of europeans are at stake.
the commission's proposal to apply the principle of 'rewarding the best and punishing the worst' to air transport in europe could make significant progress by drawing a clearer line between activities on the basis of their environmental quality.
according to a study carried out under the eu's fifth environment action programme, 80 million people in europe are exposed to noise levels that scientists consider intolerable, while another 170 million people are exposed to disturbing noise levels.
there is also the problem of gas emissions.
it is therefore accepted that air transport emissions contribute about 3.5% to global warming caused by human activity.
these emissions are projected to increase by 3% per year over the period 1992 to 2015. it is therefore both urgent and essential to take initiatives to reduce aircraft emissions.
this requires that the member states give the commission a clear negotiating mandate so that it can pursue the environmental and transport policy objectives vigorously at the 33rd session of the icao assembly in 2001.
in writing.
- at a time when france is in conflict with the main users of diesel fuel (truck drivers, farmers, ambulance drivers), which is likely to take the place of oil in europe with the surge in fuel prices, at a time when negotiations have begun in lyon to implement the kyoto protocol, proposals which will have to be adopted in the hague in large numbers to combat greenhouse gas emissions, we can see the way forward at all levels to switch from polluting and environmentally degrading modes of transport to environmentally sustainable transport that really contribute to the fight against greenhouse gas emissions.
on the other hand, it raises the practical and political problems, namely, the handicaps of air transport policies and their negative impacts on the environment.
europe is stumbling over greenhouse gas reduction measures by excluding air transport, a major co2 emitter, from the kyoto protocol and pollutant reduction plans.
taxation of kerosene, environmental charges, zero vat on air tickets are all points to be taken into consideration in order to establish fair competition between the different modes of transport.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
according to current czech legislation, an environmental impact assessment is required before the operating licence is issued.
finally, and most importantly, the lack of real environmental education that goes far beyond the necessary prevention and awareness campaigns.
– the commission deeply regrets the loss of human life as well as the ecological and economic damage caused by the recent forest fires in europe.
it is a genuine choice of society, an act of ecological responsibility in the strongest sense of the word.
the majority of my group is of the opinion that the fifteen should undertake radical measures on the ecological front, with the effective promotion of rail, while at the same time responding, in the present context, to this legitimate social expectation.
it is maintained under pressure from environmental groups, hostile to the car, because the car is individual freedom.
the alignment of our foreign policy with that of the united states, the monetary depreciation of the euro, and the increased taxation under pressure from the environmental movements are the three causes of the increase, which we deplore but for which our institutions bear a very heavy responsibility.
this is the case for energy savings, complementary renewable energy sources, the rebalancing of freight to rail and river transport, the development of public transport and the opening up of rural areas.
- mr president, eight years after the rio conference, where the united nations states recognized that environment and development are definitively linked, the european union is finally adopting regulations to ensure that the environment is integrated into the development projects of developing countries.
this budget line, which aims to promote the full integration of the environment into development projects, should not mean that the environmental dimension is neglected in other projects.
i would like to remind you that sustainable development, which fully integrates the environment, is more than ever the only development model that can meet the needs of both the poor countries of the south and the degraded countries of the north.
- while i fully support mr wijkman's report, and in particular the budgetary effort made in the conciliation, i am concerned first of all that we have not understood what sustainable development means, but also that the environment may not necessarily be taken into account in all development projects for the disadvantaged countries.
how can we think of the term or the development strategy without designing it in the context of environmental protection?
how can we even separate development from the environment?
the advocates of unrestrained liberalism will certainly want to see these environmental safeguards as additional constraints or obstacles to the difficult economic emergence of these deprived countries.
but what would be the value of an economic take-off that would destroy a country's environmental framework, that would sacrifice its ecological potential?
the deceptive balms of a purely economic recovery would soon disappear, caught up by the gangrene of environmental convulsions, hence health convulsions, and ultimately social convulsions.
the antinomy is clear, and its lessons and illustrations are inflicted on us every day: economic development alone cannot be sustainable.
and this concept of time itself contains that of a natural environment, a preserved living environment.
- the green group, on behalf of which i speak, has given its full support to this report by mr fernández martín on the conservation and sustainable management of tropical and other forests in developing countries.
the argument that the 'economic package' is the ultimate and hopeless springboard for development in third world countries that cannot afford the luxury of environmental safeguards is just an argument.
sustainable development can only be achieved within a framework of responsible use of the environment.
the same applies to the commercial charm of cutting down forests in the name of combating the greenhouse effect.
under the same noble pretext of environmental preservation, these theories are aimed only at the preservation of the interests of these few large industrial groups.
in the hague, the european union must refuse to fall into this trap which would allow the shameless exploitation of tropical forests, which are regarded as carbon sinks, and which would allow states to pay off their debts in terms of combating the greenhouse effect.
it is also advisable to use long buses for environmental reasons.
in assuring javier solana, whose extraordinary personal commitment has enabled him to achieve great and unexpected results, of the full support of the commission, i must nevertheless stress that the existing organisational model is not sustainable in the future.
the environment, for example, will not be better protected because of a policy that ignores economic realities and the needs of the people.
in this respect, it is a modern text, which recognizes rights in the fields of biotechnology, data protection, the environment and good administration.
this is the condition for building a europe of the peoples in a sustainable way.
this preference is harmful to the environment and represents a social mess.
at the same time, the introduction of larger buses would reduce the number of buses in circulation, which would be less harmful to the environment.
i therefore voted in an attempt to reconcile respect for the environment, the necessary completion of the internal market and the new constraints imposed on manufacturers.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the latest available estimates suggest that €200 billion will be needed to put the infrastructure and environment of the candidate countries in a position to achieve real convergence, i.e.
a5-0257/2000 by mrs paulsen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on undesirable substances and products in animal feed (com ((1999) 654 - c5-0344/1999 - 1999/0259 ((cod)) - doc.
a5-0256/2000 by mrs paulsen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 1995/53/ec laying down the principles governing the organisation of official controls on feedingstuffs and council directive 1999/29/ec on undesirable substances and products in animal feed (com (2000) 162 - c5-0686/2000 (cod))
the committee on agriculture and rural development has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal.
that is the position of mrs paulsen, from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
i cannot understand the epp which, despite successive crises, from belgian chicken to dioxin, from french sewage sludge to animal feed or other dutch waste oils to food oil, wants to continue to poison european consumers to some extent.
it is much better to add healthy products until an acceptable level of pollution is reached.
my dear colleagues from the epp, at the time of the white paper, the precautionary principle, food safety, the only acceptable level of pollution in the feed of the livestock that will end up on our plate is the zero level that can be measured today, especially since dioxin is a product that accumulates in the body.
the amendment proposed by the committee on the environment is now a symbol.
most of its technical proposals deserve to be strongly supported, for example on food security, the decommissioning of first generation nuclear power stations, environmental protection, the fight against social dumping, the indispensable code of conduct for western companies when working in the east, etc.
progress is also evident in the field of the environment with the implementation of the 'national environmental protection fund' and the application of the 'polluter pays' principle.
the european parliament is proposing to moralize and regulate a trade which is all about morality and regulations, at a time when the manufacture and trade in arms is a colossal waste for mankind, when the market for this very particular trade is made up of present, future or possible wars which tear the planet apart, when arms spending and local wars are a factor which aggravates the underdevelopment of a large part of the planet.
we are ready to work to ensure stability in the region and, in the long term, sustainable prosperity in the region through sustained economic growth and improved living conditions, so that the dividends of peace benefit the people of the region.
as the house will know and as has been remarked again this morning, the parliamentary and presidential elections early this year resulted in the change of government in croatia and brought a new political climate.
it is also important to guarantee quality health, an enriched social life, an improved environment for all - the third system - and fiscal and legislative measures are essential to ensure both the economic sustainability and the visibility of this emerging solidarity economy.
but more serious is the fact that he is almost obsessively insisting on the exceptional nature of state aid, when the treaty itself provides for such aid when it comes to achieving objectives set by the treaties themselves, such as the environment or social cohesion, and when the european commission itself recognises that certain policies cannot be supported by market forces alone.
and although i can support the demands for greater transparency in state aid and for parliament to be informed about the monitoring of aid approved by the commission, i continue to advocate the maintenance of state aid to develop social cohesion, research, innovation, environmental protection, to overcome market failures, to promote european competitiveness vis-à-vis the outside world, to counter fraudulent practices by competing countries, as is the case with korea in shipbuilding.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
that is why, on a proposal from your rapporteur for an opinion, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection voted unanimously to remove the references to gmos from this report.
the confederation of producers of wine with a controlled designation of origin replies: we support the position of the committee on the environment, because it provides assurance that the european regulation will not allow the introduction of procedures authorizing the sale of genetically modified wine-growing material which could damage the image of viticulture.
in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, in order to respect the precautionary principle, both in spirit and in letter, if unfortunately the articles and amendments i have just mentioned were not withdrawn, we should, as the wine growers are demanding, follow the advice of marianne isler béguin, who is a member of the committee on the environment, and vote for their withdrawal.
its purpose is to strengthen the internal market in the specific sector, to update the legislation in the light of technical and scientific progress in the meantime and, in the case of genetically modified varieties, to ensure that they can only be authorised after appropriate measures have been taken to avoid harmful effects on human health and the environment.
as regards the third point, the proposal currently contains references both to the development of a specific procedure for the assessment of environmental risks, equivalent to that provided for in directive 90/220 for risks to man and the environment, and to the criteria and principles of assessment provided for in regulation (ec) no 258/97 on novel foods and novel food ingredients.
- mr president, if i may: commissioner, can you give your opinion on the amendment by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection?
i am disappointed that the ep has neither heard nor agreed to hear the message from the environment and greens committee which has tried to draw attention to the sneaky way in which the executive committee is distilling in its reports the gmos which will end up on our plates and in our glasses in massive numbers.
no, i am not mistaken in the debate, the greens are perfectly in line with the public and consumers who are worried about the food products planned for tomorrow; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
not only did mr evans deny that state aid decreased during the period 1994-98 when the commission itself recognised this decrease, but, more seriously, he persisted in obsessively insisting on the exceptional nature of state aid, when the treaty provides for such aid when it comes to achieving objectives which the treaties themselves set, such as the environment and social cohesion, and when the commission itself recognises that certain policies cannot be supported by market forces alone.
although i was able to join the european parliament's calls for greater transparency of state aid and information on the monitoring of aid approved by the commission, i argued for the maintenance of state aid to develop social cohesion, research and innovation or environmental protection, to address market failures, to promote european competitiveness vis-à-vis the rest of the world and to counter fraudulent practices by competing countries (such as korea in shipbuilding).
jacques chirac has spoken to us, here and now, lyrically, of the europe of men and women, but the draft budget of the fifteen provides for an absolute reduction in appropriations for such important chapters as social action, employment, education, training, youth, culture, the audiovisual sector and the environment.
this is the case with employment, the environment and transeuropean networks, and the problem is even more crucial with regard to external action, as we have seen.
mr tobin himself was opposed to the principle of using this tax to finance development other than as a secondary objective, because a tax designed to limit or even prohibit certain types of transactions cannot at the same time aim at ensuring sustainable financing of development actions.
people did not stop working because there were income taxes, they did not stop polluting because there were pollution taxes, and they will not stop transferring funds from one country to another because there will be a tobin tax.
in addition, the port state control directive requires member states to control foreign ships entering their ports to verify that they comply with community and international legislation on maritime safety, protection of the marine environment and living and working conditions.
however, while respecting this right to safe passage, coastal states are allowed to impose certain requirements to ensure the safety of navigation and the protection of the environment.
these two projects, which are currently being examined by parliament under the codecision procedure, are additional elements contributing to reducing the risks of pollution.
however, the coastal state may adopt, in accordance with the provisions of the convention and other rules of international law, laws and regulations relating to the safe passage of persons through its territorial waters which may relate to the following matters: safety of navigation, regulation of maritime traffic, protection of the environment of the coastal state, prevention, reduction and control of pollution.
until now, we have had a war over compulsory and non-compulsory spending, or over the maximum rate of increase; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the success of the new community strategy for the outermost regions requires action geared to the strategic areas of global competition: transport, energy, the environment, the information society, research and technological development.
the european union is also trying to protect biodiversity and safeguard ecosystems through the habitats and birds directives, without calling into question agricultural productivity, which is well known to be the main cause, along with urbanisation, of imbalances in ecosystems.
in order to respect the principle of transparency, it should also be possible for trade unions and other associations to bring cases before the agency, both in consumer and environmental matters.
over the next five years, the focus will be on creating quality jobs, anticipating and managing change in the new social environment, exploiting the opportunities of the knowledge-based economy, modernising and improving social protection, promoting social inclusion, promoting gender equality, strengthening fundamental rights and tackling discrimination.
the greens/efa are disappointed that the report has not seized the opportunity to establish ecologically, socially and culturally sustainable development in these areas and that the amendments adopted in the vote are not likely to improve the text in this respect.
we also regret that there is no mention of the need to protect biodiversity, which is one of the most important assets of the outermost regions.
these areas could be a great laboratory for sustainable development.
on the other hand, we welcome the paragraphs in the report on the promotion of renewable energy and the control of polluting industrial activities.
- mr president, the climate change caused by our consumption patterns is beginning.
we can welcome the lucid and cold assessment made in the report by our colleague, mr moreira da silva, of the challenges and hopes, as well as the sacrifices and disappointments that have been made in the fight to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the ratification of the kyoto protocol is essential, as is the introduction of domestic measures that will make a real contribution to combating greenhouse gas emissions.
the union must refuse to integrate nuclear energy, even if there will be strong pressure for clean development mechanisms.
nuclear energy is neither sustainable nor clean.
it would be equally intolerable to accept carbon sinks in the flexibility measures.
i would like to say again, first of all, that if the emissions trading system is to be recognised as one of the provisions of our international agreements, which is not to be reviewed, the commission seems to forget that this mechanism is only one of the systems described as flexible by the kyoto protocol.
the mechanism should therefore not be seen as a first-rate tool but rather as a complementary instrument to other measures to reduce greenhouse gases.
on this point, i think we should support one of the amendments tabled by our colleagues in the gue/ngl group, who believe that it is necessary to postpone the implementation of a polluter-pays system until the council and the member states have drawn up and ratified an operational plan of measures to reduce greenhouse gases covering all the sectors concerned, and in particular transport and agriculture.
finally, where are our environmental objectives in this kind of international exchange of pollution rights and what can we expect from this system which only opens up a large market of rights to the benefit of countries like russia, which may have a margin of manoeuvre today, not because of the standardisation of their factories, but simply because of the dramatic decline in their industrial production?
i therefore think that we should demand the establishment of a framework agreement on cooperation between russia and the european union so that it can be put into effect...
- the next item is the report (a5-0197/2000) by mr lund, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on a community strategy on endocrine disruptors - a series of substances suspected of affecting the hormonal system of humans and animals.
i also hope that the opinion of the scientific committee on toxicity, ecotoxicity and the environment, delivered on 5 september, will be taken into account.
a5-0298/2000 by mr clegg, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the unbundling of access to the local loop;
- madam commissioner, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, behind the somewhat barbarous name of the draft regulation we are debating tonight, the local loop unbundling, an expression which is perfectly hermetic for any average citizen, there is a simple and serious decision to open up the local voice telephony network and data telecommunications services to competition.
it must be, it can be, an objective in itself and for us europeans, a value and an asset for balanced and sustainable development.
such a budget would be responsible for harmonizing social protection systems and implementing coordinated public policies in the fields of energy and transport; it would be fuelled by a unified tax on capital.
to prevent pollution, we need to take binding measures, including confiscation of the polluting company, and no company should be able to escape this.
but beyond the one-off measures, the problem of air pollution is a global problem affecting all human society, which can be satisfactorily solved only by a society that controls its economy and does not operate with the pursuit of private profit as its sole engine.
- it is important that our parliament has once again considered and expressed its views on the causes of climate change on our planet.
- the fight against the greenhouse effect is a major challenge for the industrialized countries, a duty especially towards the peoples of the third world who are already paying with their lives for the consequences of global warming.
pollution is not a commodity; to turn it into a source of profit is to open the door to all kinds of abuse.
furthermore, the development of nuclear energy and carbon sinks must be excluded from the calculation of emission reductions.
the european union must, without further delay, equip itself to meet its commitments by adopting an ambitious european programme to combat the greenhouse effect - of a very different scale from the proposed resolution on policies and measures; the commission is responsible for the transport sector in particular.
it would seem, however, to be good policy to prefer a pragmatic and pro-active approach, which puts small businesses at the heart of the system, rather than a proposal which, under the pretext of avoiding waste, would only serve to produce accurate statistics which would be completely impossible to use in practice.
i know that i can count on your energy and determination to implement this programme.
for my part, with my friends, i wanted to focus on craft and micro-enterprises, i asked that due account be taken of environmental and sustainable development objectives and that access to new communication and information technologies be promoted for smes.
these companies must be strengthened in their environment, whether geographical or technological.
they will be easily found, in particular, in the information society, in the sustainable development of which so much is being said, in the fields of the environment, clean technologies, ecotechnologies, new energies and new materials.
moroccans have the right to sustainable development and to important crafts, just as they have the right to create an agro-food industry based on their fishing and fish.
turkey will also have to integrate the concept of the environment, particularly in projects such as the creation of large dams, which will inevitably have an influence on the water supply in neighbouring countries.
secondly, we must increase the regional envelope to enable cross-border relations, trade, but also environmental protection, the fight against terrorism and drug trafficking, emigration and integration, and progress towards human rights, as we have asked for.
the council is prepared to help and seek to establish a climate of confidence between the parties.
- mr president, i share at least one certainty with the rapporteur, our colleague mr blokland: incineration may be a major source of pollution, but it is indeed necessary today, given the very low rate of waste recycling.
the proposal, which aims to replace three directives on waste incineration, aims to improve air, water, soil and human health by reducing emissions of pollutants from incineration and co-incineration, in particular dioxins, furans and heavy metals.
the merger of these two incineration processes for hazardous and non-hazardous waste is regrettable.
our group, which wished to avoid confusion between hazardous and non-hazardous waste, notes that the current text clearly provides for different reception and treatment procedures, adapted to the types of waste concerned, and additional precautions to be taken with regard to hazardous waste.
in order to ensure the sustainability of this sector, it seems to me essential to give mutual societies a legal basis in the field of supplementary cover.
the meat and bone meal which is largely - if only temporarily - converted into new waste can be burned in cement kilns or used for the production of biogas.
they have contributed to over-intensive production, which is harmful to the environment and the quality of products.
where are the programmes to reduce the union's protein deficit that were mentioned a few minutes ago, the incineration of animal flour and waste, the introduction of compulsory testing in the union?
we have the land, we have the climate, we have the know-how to immediately replace animal flour with non-genetically modified vegetable protein, and yet we have, while financing poachers, renounced ourselves the right to grow on our own land the vegetable protein that we so desperately need to feed our animals and feed our population.
i believe that they are in line with the proposals made by the high level group on social protection - proposals made to the employment council for the nice summit - particularly on the idea of promoting access to sustainable and quality employment and access to social protection and care, as well as access for everyone to decent and safe housing and essential services - the high level group mentions in this respect electricity, water, heating, but also effective access to education, justice and public services.
- madam commissioner, our debate this evening is timed - as many of us have said - to coincide with the hague conference on global warming.
we are already experiencing the negative consequences of the greenhouse effect, climate change, global warming, in short, a whole series of problems which are really on our doorstep today and which require urgent, firm and strong measures.
the good proposal you have made to us, madam commissioner - and i want to commend your realism on energy matters - and the excellent report by our colleague mr rothe, go in the right direction by allowing the promotion of renewable energies.
free competition does not solve all problems, and in particular it does not solve the problem of combating the greenhouse effect or the problem of combating waste.
the first is peat, which is an important energy source, but for me it is not renewable.
the second problem is that of household waste: it is not really a renewable energy source, but we must be careful not to send a negative signal about the incineration of household waste.
provided we create specialized factories to control the impact on the environment.
- we are at the end of a long process aimed at the adoption of a directive on the incineration of waste.
i would remind you that the directive covers the incineration and co-incineration of waste.
these are two waste treatment methods which must be part of a comprehensive strategy including waste prevention, reuse and recycling, a strategy coordinated at european level.
i have expressed my doubts and fears during the debates between the two readings of the european parliament about the treatment of hazardous and non-hazardous waste within the framework of the same directive.
however, if more than 40% of the waste incinerated in such facilities is hazardous waste or untreated mixed municipal waste, the facilities will have to meet the more stringent standards of another annex on incineration.
the european commission wanted to exclude vegetable waste from agriculture, forestry and the food industry.
at second reading, parliament added fibre waste from pulp, virgin and pulp paper production where this waste is intended for co-incineration.
the parliament has also successfully insisted on another point: installations where radioactive waste is incinerated must be expressly excluded from the scope of the directive.
i would like to conclude by stressing once again that the widespread exploitation of hazardous waste must not lead us to accept the production of such waste.
our priority is and must remain the prevention of waste generation in line with the axis adopted in the european union's waste strategy.
- we certainly do not dispute the usefulness of 'promoting electricity produced from renewable energy sources'.
- last night in the plenary debate many of us spoke about the need to promote renewable energy sources at the time of the hague conference on global warming.
more and more, scientists and climate scientists are speaking out about the consequences of greenhouse gases: citizens themselves are beginning to realise this.
these dramatic forecasts in the very short term must impress upon us the need to adopt clear and voluntary measures at european and world level to curb this process of deterioration in the quality of the environment.
it follows the commission's announcements and the european parliament's call for a major step forward towards the white paper target of doubling the share of renewable energy in energy consumption by 2020. member states must now embark on this path in order to meet the environmental objectives they have agreed to at both european and international level, but also to ensure their energy independence and security of supply.
the dependence, which is around 50% for the union as a whole, is likely to rise to 70% by 2020 in the absence of renewable energy development.
the european union is now at the forefront of the construction of installations in the various fields of energy production.
- (de) we all know that our energy supply in the future will no longer be able to rely on the current sources of energy.
the commission also recognizes this, and the rapporteur even more so, by calling for greater priority to be given to alternative energy sources, or even alternative energy production, than in the past.
the experience gained so far with traditional energy sources, such as the effects on climate, nature, the immense security risks and the foreseeable shortage of resources, should logically lead to a significant increase in aid for the development and use of new energies.
the first step in this direction is the substantial reduction of certain barriers to the use of renewable energy.
the aim of any energy and economic policy - and this is the second point - must be to reduce or optimise energy consumption, because only the conservative use of resources - whatever they may be - helps to minimise the costs involved.
in this connection, we call for more focused research on the external costs of renewable energy production and use.
finally, the restructuring of energy supply can only be carried out by taking account of the particular conditions in which alternative energies are situated.
the decentralisation of energy supply is not only a structural policy issue but also a social issue.
this is why the liberalisation of the energy sector cannot be achieved without the establishment of minimum social standards.
the preparations for asem 4 should be an opportunity to affirm the democratic requirement, on the one hand, by ensuring the information and intervention of elected assemblies and civil society - including the establishment of a social forum - and, on the other hand, by taking full account of social, environmental and human rights.
this is the anti-model of true sustainable development, the future policy that we greens advocate.
i am convinced that this project will help to strengthen security in the area of freedom, security and justice, since there is no freedom and no justice unless it is lived in an environment of effective security.
i would like to congratulate the commission, and through the commission, mrs wallström, for not having let go of the commitments it has always made to reduce emissions, including greenhouse gases.
the united states' position, which uses the idea of carbon sinks in forests, is unacceptable, because in that case no effort is made.
we sometimes discuss the climate change issue as if its effects will only be felt in the long term by our children and grandchildren.
however, climate change has already happened, it is already there.
even though the experts are very careful not to say that any particular storm or extreme weather condition is due to climate change, we will see more extreme weather as climate change continues.
of course we need some clear operational rules to regulate an emissions trading market worth twelve billion dollars.
however, for the environment ministers present at the hague, and you know we have also set the tone here, the main objectives were to defend the credibility and integrity of the kyoto protocol.
all ministers know that they cannot escape this huge task of combating climate change; this was also clear from the meeting in the hague.
we can start emissions trading earlier.
the interests of agriculture itself are at stake, when health and the environment are areas covered by co-decision.
its voice would be stronger, and the voice of the ministers who defend agriculture, the voice which is at the service of sustainable development, would also be stronger in the council if it were based on decisions taken here in codecision.
the european union through its common position on afghanistan of 14 january earlier this year is committed among other things to the objective of bringing about a sustainable peace in afghanistan.
these are the problems that must be addressed if peace is to be restored and to be sustainable.
- the next item is the joint debate on the council and commission statements on maritime safety and the following reports: - (a5-0343/2000) by mr watts, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 95/21/ec on the application to vessels calling at community ports or in waters under the jurisdiction of member states of international standards for maritime safety, pollution prevention and shipboard living conditions (port state control) (com (2000) 0142 - c5-0174/2000 - 2000/0065 (cod)) by mr hatzidakis, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 94/21/ec on the application to vessels calling at community ports or in waters under the jurisdiction of member states of international standards for maritime safety, pollution prevention and shipboard living conditions (port state control) (com (2000) 0142 - c5-0174/2000) by mr larondo, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the introduction of a european parliament and council directive on the establishment of community design standards for maritime pollution prevention and environmental protection of ships (com (2000) - 2000/0342/c01/c01/2000-017/c02/2000) by mr mckenna, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and council directive on the establishment of standards for maritime safety standards for ships calling at community ports or in community ports or in community ports or in ports or in waters or in the waters under the jurisdiction of member states or in the waters under the jurisdiction of member states (commission of the juris
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal.
however, it must be borne in mind that these proposals, which, as the committee on industry and foreign trade, research and energy points out, essentially meet the legal needs identified in the areas defined by their respective objectives, will only be effective if they are properly implemented by the member states and monitored by the commission.
and let us not forget, as mrs mckenna said, that a large part of pollution at sea is due to what can be described as 'operational' practices, i.e.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
i will support this report, the commission's amendments, but i would also ask members to support the amendments of the committee on the environment concerning social standards.
ecological first, with a marine heritage, a flora, a fauna destroyed or contaminated forever.
by responding favourably to this acceleration of the timetable, our group has not, however, given up on the fundamental requirements for increased safety of the marine environment.
in the context of increased competition, the primary objective is the fastest transport at the lowest cost, at the expense of safety, the environment and crews.
in the context of the second package of proposals, i think it is important to push forward our thinking on promoting the sustainable development of maritime transport.
a few weeks ago, western france was hit by another ecological disaster, the sinking of the chemical tanker ievoli sun.
this is a line of thinking that the member states and the commission should explore, because if the overcrowding of the channel-north sea area is not addressed, it will inevitably become a veritable highway of marine pollution, a permanent threat to the safety of our seafarers, the attractiveness of our coastlines and the quality of our marine resources.
and knowing the finistère well, i knew from the start that we were going to experience catastrophic marine pollution, which would leave long-lasting traces on our french coasts.
the mckenna report, at its third reading, recalls a number of key principles concerning accidental and intentional pollution, the so-called 'wild emissions', which are based on the polluter pays principle.
in the meantime, mr minister, let us strengthen technological research into marine pollution abatement.
it is important that exchanges of know-how and cooperation be encouraged and supported in this highly technological field, so that we can finally preserve our marine natural heritage, in the hope that the measures we will put in place together will finally make it possible to stop experiencing this marine pollution and protect our marine heritage.
we can no longer simply respond to the people affected by these ecological and economic disasters, which we have mentioned, are considering and will avoid next time.
it is necessary to recall that maritime safety is a matter of international law all the more so since pollution never stops at the limits of national territorial waters and most often begins in these international waters.
our political action must be strong, like the ecological emergency.
in conclusion, i would remind you that the americans did not wait for us to vote on the oil pollution act in 1990 in order to react to the sinking of the exxon valdez in 1989, whereas the sinking of the amoco cadiz in france dates back to 1978. so let us finally have the political courage to pursue our ecological ambitions.
but the real problem is the political will to take and enforce binding measures against all those who, for profit, endanger the community and the environment.
following pressure by member states on the international maritime organisation, there is a proposed phase-out schedule which meets the main concerns of europe and at the same time aligns with the american oil pollution act 90 and which is to be fully supported.
firstly there is a directive on waste reception facilities recently approved by the european parliament and council.
all ships are obliged to discharge waste in european union ports.
it is a curious coincidence that parliament is considering the final stage of the adoption of the european parliament and council decision on accidental or deliberate marine pollution, at the same time as the first set of measures proposed by the commission following the erika disaster.
it creates the conditions that will allow the sharing of experience gathered by member states to better protect our marine environment against the risk of accidental or deliberate pollution.
the risks of accidents and pollution are too great, not to mention the working conditions and salary of the sailors!
this will be to our credit, will preserve our environment and therefore give us a better quality of life.
europe cannot be below the regulations of the united states which, thanks to the oil pollution act of 1990, aims to eliminate monocoques between 2000 and 2015. we must at least follow the united states in this direction and take steps to ensure that the fleet of garbage vessels is not diverted to third world countries.
will europe, which is usually so quick to legislate on environmental matters, continue to ignore maritime safety for a long time to come, because huge financial interests are at stake and the interests of its members are divergent?
we shall therefore vote in favour of this report, which is in the right direction, but we regret that it does not provide for: preventive and enforcement measures to combat intensive emissions of greenhouse gases, which are the main cause of marine pollution; dto take inventory of waste vessels; to prohibit any vessel of any age presenting a clear danger from entering its territorial waters.
the quality of our environment is also a concern.
the amount of the compensation will also have to be increased to take account of the material, economic, social and environmental damage.
i will support this report, the commission's amendments, but i would ask members to support the amendments of the committee on the environment, in particular those aimed at harmonising the rules for classification societies and the statutes of inspectors.
let us compare them with the liveliness, energy and relevance of the debates in national parliaments: the members of the bourbon, westminster and cortes palaces can compare their ideas because they are expressed in the same cultural context, in the same languages.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0348/00) by mr maaten, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products (com (94) 0188 - c5-0431/2000 - 1999/0244 (cod))
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 80 deaths from the new variant of creutzfeldt-jakob disease in europe and europe, its council of ministers, the commission and parliament have decided to ban animal meal and the non-entry of bovines over 30 months of age into the food chain without prior testing.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0349/2000) by mr liese, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to the application of good clinical practice in the conduct of clinical trials on medicinal products for human use (8878/1/2000 - c5-0424/2000 - 1997/0197 (cod)).
so even if there are still some points of disagreement with the council, i would like to point out that the result we are seeking to achieve by adopting this directive is the result of a long and fruitful compromise work carried out by mr liese, our rapporteur, whom i thank and congratulate for his participatory and constructive approach, and by the council, which has declared itself cooperative and open to the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment at second reading.
a5-0377/2000 by mr trakatellis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision extending certain community action programmes in the field of public health adopted by decisions 645/96/ec, 646/96/ec, 647/96/ec, 102/97/ec, 1400/97/ec and 1296/1999/ec and amending those decisions (com (2000) 0448 - c5-0400/2000 - 2000/0192 (cod)).
it is now up to the swedish presidency - whose environmental policy is one of its priorities - to bring the second set of proposals to a successful conclusion, including the creation of a european maritime safety agency.
among the threats, as everyone knows, is global warming.
we must reach an agreement next year that finally commits to the necessary reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
- should the summertime change introduced at the time of the oil shocks be continued, in order to save energy, and extended until 2001?
first of all, the reason for this device has lost much of its interest and value: the energy savings it is supposed to allow are no longer established at all and are limited to the symbolic.
on the other hand, in addition to the problems of air pollution, the profoundly disturbing nature for living beings, especially for children, of this double change of time, occurring in march and then in october, is well established and keenly felt by our populations, many of whom ask that this disruptive arrangement of the rhythms of life be reversed.
the nice summit has certainly made it possible to make important progress on all the issues which directly affect the lives of our citizens, whether it be the preservation of health, the protection of the environment, social policy or the adoption of a statute for european enterprises.
instead of the planned redeployments at the expense of traditional priorities, we were calling for a multiannual revision of the financial perspective, particularly for external actions, although a similar problem arose for expenditure on employment and environmental protection.
chapter 3, internal measures, also deserves attention, since the 'employment' initiative, renamed the 'entrepreneurship' programme, was cut by eur 87 million, the trans-european networks by eur 23 million and the protection of the environment by eur 42 million.
it would be more in line with the expectations of the citizens to restore the balance in the public service by making any further extension of the commercial sphere conditional on respect for the fundamental objective of the sustainable development of european society.
the amendments by the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, the taking into account of the opinions of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy and the committee on employment and social affairs, do indeed abolish the notion of special services.
justified, because it is in line with the logic of the treaties establishing the european union, which emphasise the completion of the internal market through the free movement of goods and services in a competitive environment.
it is not a question here of protecting a product of a certain origin in a protectionist way, but of defending the sustainability of a certain way of producing.
we must stand firm, because if we give in today on bananas, why should we not give in tomorrow on the other common market organizations, on the cap, on the european agricultural model which advocates sustainable development?
on the other hand, taxation must be chosen in such a way as not to encourage consumers to choose the technologies which are worst for the environment.
the proposal for a european parliament and council decision, adopted by the european commission on 22 november 1999, on a community framework for sustainable urban development follows on from the 'european sustainable cities' project launched in 1992. the state of the urban environment, which is home to about 80% of the european population, is a matter of fundamental concern with repercussions at local, european and global levels.
it is clear that the most acute environmental problems at european level are mainly urban.
they are often closely linked to global environmental challenges and have such an impact that they directly affect the quality of life of millions of citizens.
a coherent and sustainable approach to urban development policies can, however, significantly improve the quality of life in cities.
the concept of sustainable development, especially in the case of cities, is not and cannot be limited to the environmental aspect alone, but also encompasses social and economic aspects.
they can also pose a major threat to our natural environment and the challenge now is to facilitate balanced urban development that enables cities to continue to play an important role in society today and in the future.
a major challenge in the creation of urban policy is to find ways of pursuing sustainable urban development objectives within the city's management structure.
that is why mrs lienemann, our rapporteur, has proposed a slight increase in the budgetary envelope to eur 14 million, in agreement with the other institutions, to promote cooperation in this area between 2001 and 2004. the appropriations will be mainly intended for networks of cities organised at european level for their activities in the field of development and dissemination of good practice in sustainable urban development.
the court of justice of the european communities and even the wto dispute settlement bodies consider that the precautionary principle can be applied in environmental or public health matters, and sometimes even against europeans, as the pending raw milk cheese case shows.
the union must promote a unified conception of the precautionary principle so that it can be present in all the policies implemented by the union within its competence, but also so that this european approach can be invoked against our partners who often have a less ambitious approach to the environment and health than we do.
the text of the resolution, which we have reached after several debates in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, is largely in line with the council resolution annexed to the conclusions of the nice summit, and we welcome it.
the text of the committee on the environment is the result of the continuous search for a compromise or rather a balance between the maximalist and minimalist tendencies which have been expressed in our debates and which both lead to excesses.
maximalists seek to block innovation and progress, while minimalists advise that the precautionary principle should be used only in the event of a significant danger to health and the environment, that is to say, above a threshold to be defined, but it is not clear how!
the european union has the ambition to guarantee its citizens a high level of protection of their health and the environment.
this capitulation is unworthy of our european project and of the social and environmental model we say we want to build!
the second point, which you mention in your report, is our common concern to integrate innovative actions into a regional policy which keeps economic and social cohesion and sustainable development as priorities.
this is why we have chosen these three strategic priorities: technological innovation, the information society, but also regional identity and sustainable development.
first, the energy efficiency.
don't forget, i have an old commitment to environmental issues.
i have had the honour of being the minister for the environment in my country and i keep this concern in mind and as a priority in the actions we are taking under the structural funds.
energy efficiency and environmental policy aspects are not forgotten in these guidelines.
they may give rise to innovative actions under the third theme, which concerns regional identity and sustainable development.
i would add that, as you know, the european commission is already supporting energy efficiency through the save programme and through one of the thematic programmes of the fifth research framework programme 1998-2002. in addition, the alterner programme is devoted to supporting renewable energies.
a5-0371/2000 by mr langen, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the second report from the commission to the council on the state of shipbuilding in the world (com (2000) 0371 - c5-0370/2000)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists, i would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the commission and the council have finally recognized what we have been saying for several years and more intensively for several months: firstly, europe has imposed on itself greater and faster constraints and obligations in the field of shipbuilding than its main competitors and, secondly, south korea has outrageously violated the rules of competition, with shameless financial dumping.
increasing the employment rate of all persons of working age, is the key instrument for sustainable pensions in an ageing society.
my colleagues in the committees on agriculture, budgets and the environment have done the same and the text is strengthened by the amendments which have been accepted; i'll mention a few.