we naturally accept this amendment, which is quite justified, and i think that we must introduce concrete circumstances which show the diversity of the climate in the european union, which sometimes translates into specificities and concrete requirements when it comes to considering technical standardisation or characterisation.
the aim is to provide a framework and a tool to support and stimulate economic regeneration, to achieve the best use of resources within the broadest possible partnership, and to re-engage these regions on the path of recovery and sustainable development so that they can finally disconnect from the regional respirator.
if parliament supports these amendments to the report today, i think they will move us to the next phase in pursuing the historic objectives for which these funds were set up, namely to help - which must be financially sustainable - the poor regions of the european union, which we must bring to a decent standard of living, not by giving them alms but by stimulating them.
- i would first like to thank my environment colleagues in my group for having addressed this particular problem jointly with their transport team.
this disaster affects both transport and the environment and is not confined to one area.
it is high time that the member states, but also that paper tiger known as the international maritime organization and, last but not least, the oil companies and tankers owners, shoulder their responsibilities and act to put an end to these ecological and human tragedies that have been repeated over the years.
how much pollution must we still endure before industry builds tankers with separate tanks and double hulls?
how many seabirds must die before shipping companies stop cleaning up their tanks at sea, an activity which causes far more pollution than any disaster of the erika type, as our resolution points out?
it is absolutely certain that these three ships have disappeared leaving behind an ecological catastrophe.
unfortunately, i fear that once again the council will not act and that we will have to discuss yet another maritime and ecological disaster in the future.
the erika disaster highlights the fact that when there are no strict transport regulations at european and international level, nature and the environment always suffer.
the resulting damage, particularly from an ecological point of view, is not measured in money.
that is why the debate is being held jointly with the colleagues from the transport and environment sectors.
the sinking was an ecological disaster and a deplorable waste of resources.
it should be noted that the oil industry, through the international fund for oil pollution, considers that it must bear, in accordance with the 1969 convention and its 1992 protocol, more than 90% of the estimated costs of this accident, namely some $170 million.
the environmental disaster caused by the sinking of the erika off the coast of brittany and the spill of 10,000 tonnes of oil has been widely covered by the british media.
in addition, our work must be based on the council directive on the application of international standards for ship safety and pollution prevention by ensuring that the target of inspecting 25% of ships calling at eu ports is met and that high standards of inspection are established.
i have noted in particular the proposals concerning objective 2. finally, the hypothesis that such disasters are linked to climate change due to the consequences of human activities on the environment is indeed advanced.
there are some extremely competent and knowledgeable members among you on these subjects, although i have written several books on ecological and environmental subjects in the past.
mr kronberger, mr messner and mrs gonzález álvarez have alluded to the major climate issues and i would like to say that there is probably a link somewhere between the consequences of these natural disasters and the policies which must remain one of the driving forces behind europe's prevention of major environmental issues.
president of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
the european commission has been monitoring the environmental impacts of the conflict since the beginning of nato action.
in june the commission funded a first study by the regional environmental centre for central and eastern europe which concluded that there was no major ecological disaster.
the commission was also closely involved in the drafting of a recent report published by the united nations environment programme - the task force on the balkans (btf).
it is the most detailed and comprehensive report to date on the environmental impacts of the kosovo conflict and i recommend it to anyone who has not yet studied it.
a special regional plan for environmental reconstruction is also being developed.
i would therefore ask the commission whether it intends to consider continuing monitoring and for how long it might consider monitoring in the future, with a view to ascertaining the long-term effects, not only of depleted uranium weapons but also of other environmental impacts which have occurred, as we know, at least locally within kosovo.
this is a real ecological disaster.
for eight years we have been negotiating with industry and energy experts to find ways of saving electricity in the lighting sector.
there are many reasons for this - installing energy efficient lighting is one of the most sensitive investments for businesses in the european union.
as the commission reminds us, electricity accounts for 35% of our total primary energy consumption and produces 30% of man-made carbon dioxide emissions.
let me quote a passage from the findings of a survey carried out in the uk on the premises of our building research centre: "the production of efficiency standards, particularly for ballasts for fluorescent lighting", the study reveals, "is one of the most effective measures the ec can take to reduce the energy consumption used for lighting in commercial buildings.
i hope the commissioner will tell us that this is just one aspect of her overall objective to improve energy efficiency in the european union and that, thanks to her, our promises will not remain political headlines.
as for the oil companies themselves, why do they want the lifting of environmental protection requirements, the abandonment of development controls, and to have full freedom of action, in case of a civil emergency, which would give them "carte blanche to act as a paramilitary power"?
we need to extend the dialogue to include associations which play an active role in the fields of environment and development and we need to allow specialist research institutes to play a greater role.
this would promote the objective of conserving fish stocks through sustainable fishing and provide long-term viability for fishing-dependent communities in europe.
the introduction of appropriate consultation with civil society as well - in particular with fisheries and environmental ngos - will ensure that the community fisheries policy truly reflects the conservation and sustainable development objectives in the fisheries sector.
it would therefore be a good thing if this report could achieve a much better representation of fishermen, environmental interests and other civil society interests.
you have to choose: either you put citizens at risk, for example, or you want to protect the environment, and you have to take into account the science that's available.
it was raised just recently in the committee on the environment by some ministers who want the commission to look at what it is based on and what it should do.
the best way to achieve our environmental goals is to make the manufacturers our instrument for both collecting money and disposing of it, as well as recycling the cars.
there is already a thriving industry which destroys cars, recovers metals and energy by incinerating non-metallic elements.
from an environmental point of view, this is a very reasonable approach.
burning used plastics is as environmentally friendly as burning new gasoline to recover energy.
i want to oppose this directive because it is too normative, it ignores what is really happening in the car recycling market at the moment and it floats in the lap of methods which are not necessarily the best from an environmental point of view and certainly very harmful from an economic point of view.
there are few things in life more certain than taxes, death and pollution.
however, nothing is more certain than that the eu environmental directives are intended to be laudable but actually miss the stated objectives.
we are all against pollution, as we are all against sin, but from this to believing that a proposed measure against this scourge is necessarily good, there is a long way to go.
in fact, this directive, like so many other directives on environmental matters, is not good.
therefore, a more appropriate way to encourage recycling is to tax manufacturers who do not increase the amount of recoverable materials in their vehicles, to encourage private sector recycling companies through a package of measures including tax incentives and aid to comply with environmental requirements, and to encourage the use of recycled materials through incentives.
we need to harness the energy of the unemployed, the under-utilized skills of the young and the experience of the elderly to solve these problems.
i am particularly pleased that he has recognised the virtuous circle of sustained growth: the information society within an expanding european market with, moreover, a genuine single currency will give us the opportunity to really develop prosperity, the spirit of innovation, the spirit of enterprise and, yes - the most important element - sustainable jobs with very high added value for european citizens.
there is no doubt that mr böge and the rapporteur from the committee on the environment are now real experts in this field.
- mr president, the ecological disaster in the danube reminds us of the close link between all the countries of europe and the importance of water for all of us.
we are certainly able to accept the main principles - that of our desire to reduce the infiltration of hazardous waste into groundwater, and our obligation to ensure that the chemicals we all need at any given moment do not end up in our water systems.
many of us now believe that we should have an environmental tax to encourage conservation, to use the carrot and the stick to make the best use of our resources and not to add to the pollution and loss of a precious resource like water.
the measures have been taken by the environment committee.
our attempt to improve the european environment has failed.
we will have to negotiate an allocation in the 2001 budget, because we want to pursue this idea and to pursue it, not just in an experimental way, but in a fairly sustainable way in 2000 and 2001, that is, for the entire duration of the negotiations on the intergovernmental conference and the ratification process.
will the commission consider sending instructions to all member states stating that if in the future it discovers that european environmental directives have been violated or that adequate environmental assessments have not been carried out, it will not only stop all future funding but also withdraw funds already allocated?
it is judiciously focused on achieving quality water for human consumption, wildlife, the environment and economic purposes.
prevention of water pollution and degradation must be judicious and the ability to manage water in times of drought and flood must be developed.
the areas that are really affected by the lack of coherence are in areas such as agriculture, trade, the environment and biodiversity, but that is where the real problem lies.
it is not surprising to me that the commission is having difficulty in producing a basic document for the discussion on sustainable and social development.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation.
we voted against amendments nos 25 and 72 which would require that minimum anthropogenic pollution be achieved in all groundwater.
they see a beautiful planet teeming with life, but its atmosphere is polluted and suffering from global warming.
now is the time to devote our time and energy to helping the cypriots on both sides of the 'green line' to find a solution to the conflict that has lasted far too long.
we are implementing an energy for democracy programme to promote aid to yugoslav municipalities led by democratic forces, we reacted positively at the general affairs council last monday to the request of the serbian democratic forces to lift the air embargo, both for international flights and for yugoslav airline flights.
as far as the g8 is concerned, and in accordance with paragraph 32 of the cologne summit communiqué of june 1999, it is stated that we will work together with the oecd towards common environmental guidelines for export aid institutions.
our aim is to complete this work before the g8 summit in 2001. the g8 therefore recognises the importance of the issue of export credits, the environment and the work being done in the oecd on this subject.
in 1999, the oecd ministerial council, in which i participated, welcomed the progress made in the development of an oecd pact on the exchange of environmental information on major projects concerning officially supported export credits.
as regards the ilisu dam itself, discussions are taking place between the turkish authorities and the authorities whose export credit institutions are potential suppliers of export credit guarantees, the project suppliers and those who wanted to protect the environmental, social and cultural aspects of this project.
- although the process of setting these common standards began in 1978, it is clear that the fact that the uk government seems to continue to promote projects which are highly damaging to the environment suggests that it has not been very productive so far.
on the one hand we ask the applicant countries to take account of the environmental acquis and yet, at the same time, eu member states support and encourage investment in these countries, which in itself is very damaging to the environment.
i also thank the working groups on small island states and climate change and the fisheries monitoring group for their excellent reports.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat corruption and waste.
thirdly, the resolution talks about sustainable jobs.
it is clear that the promotion of this idea is desirable and that sustainable jobs do not necessarily have to mean full-time employment.
we must recognise this sector, which is mainly engaged in cross-border activity and therefore deserves a european policy with a stimulating, innovative and proactive approach to the development of sustainable enterprises.
the scottish parliament also recently held a debate on the role of post offices, especially in rural areas, in service provision and the sustainability of rural communities.
if a rural post office closes, usually at the same time as the only local store adjoining, this can result in a serious threat to community sustainability and social inclusion.
it is important that the commission never loses sight of the fact that the reform process will be a real waste of time unless contact is re-established with the european citizens.
perhaps i should also address mr patten and ask, in the context of the work we are about to undertake on conflict prevention, to what extent we will be able to look at situations which cause long-term conflict such as environmental degradation and water scarcity and then introduce them into eu policies which are in line with the mainstream, especially in development, because there is no point in trying to solve something quickly when we have had years to do so.
secondly, as regards environmental data, the original proposal deals only with biological and economic information.
the commission has, however, made it clear that it intends to carry out wider environmental studies and pilot projects.
this will certainly facilitate the introduction of a new regulation on environmental data and may even render it unnecessary.
i fully understand the idea expressed in the proposed amendment to incorporate ecological data as well.
this comprehensive document takes into account a wide range of potential risks and recommends actions to address them in areas such as site-to-site transmission, safety measures to reduce leakage, waste and effluent treatment, detection and diagnosis methods, spawning and rotation, disinfection of equipment and many other measures.
wild salmon, trout and eels have been found to be carriers of the virus, which now appears to be endemic even in the wider marine environment.
however, i do not deny the importance of environmental considerations in fish farms.
it called on the commission and the member states to speed up the adoption of measures to combat any negative effects of aquaculture on the marine environment.
thirdly - and i refer to the debate we had earlier on the collection of fisheries data - i sincerely hope that the commission will commit itself to carrying out projects and studies which look at aquaculture in the environmental context but i believe that this is the way we will move forward in environmental matters and not in the way suggested in amendments 7 to 13 and i therefore hope that the honourable members will reject them.
similarly, there is no denying the enormous environmental and financial importance of bluefin tuna.
i therefore support the conclusions of the iccat and the principle of intergovernmental cooperation on environmental matters.
despite the great leaps forward on conservation, the reality is that the quota system is leading us straight to environmental disaster.
the second point concerns the future and the publication of the commission's white paper on environmental responsibility, which is intended to ensure the application of the polluter-pays principle in the future and to improve our ability to enforce european environmental legislation.
the proposal for a directive provides for no-fault liability for damage caused by dangerous activities regulated at community level and i wonder - and the commissioner may be able to answer this question - whether or not the white paper on environmental liability will be able to address problems such as the erika, whether it will really be able to address this concern or whether, in practice, in the case of maritime accidents involving vessels on the high seas, polluters will once again escape the obligation to pay compensation to repair the damage they have caused.
these black tides, in addition to irreparable ecological damage, have wiped out local industries.
the erika oil spill has severely affected the local fisheries and aquaculture industries and it is important to look beyond the harmful effects apparent today and to take a long-term view of the harmful effects of oil pollution.
finally, i would like to say to the honourable members that we believe that this position is faithful to the principles and values of the agreement, which is sufficiently clear to us in legal terms, and that we are also convinced that we have taken a great step towards a climate of mutual trust, which must serve as a basis for peace building, because in the middle east the only alternative to survival is peace and coexistence between the peoples living in that region.
in 1994 the green group was the first group in this parliament to have a majority of women, it was the first to have a female secretary-general, dominique voynet, now the french minister for the environment, and the german greens were the first political party to apply gender equality to correct the overall under-representation of women in political institutions.
- mr president, five million pieces of solid waste are dumped into the sea every day.
this waste is drifting and washing up on beaches, causing serious damage to the environment and marine life.
the polmar convention aims to prevent pollution from ships but legislation is clearly needed to ensure that the convention is applied.
that is why this directive is so important and why i welcome the progress made tonight in the council towards a common position which will oblige ships to dispose of their waste in port reception facilities.
i also commend the work of the rapporteur, whose commitment reflects our desire to tackle this particular problem in our committee and the strong desire of members from all sides to put an end to this disastrous practice for the environment.
i am particularly pleased that it has supported the proposal to apply environmental requirements to all ships, regardless of their flag, and to provide appropriate waste reception facilities in all community ports, with the aim of improving pollution prevention and avoiding distortions of competition.
for example, the british system which forces a ship to pay the waste collector every time it uses the reception facilities, without the port being involved, works well.
this system is based on an agreement between all stakeholders, including ports and environmental groups such as the rspb (royal society for the protection of birds) and the world wide fund for nature.
we share the rapporteur's concern, however, that different collection systems could lead to an increased risk of marine pollution.
thirdly, the environmental benefits - the possibility of ensuring that vehicles are less noisy and less polluting.
this proposal will undoubtedly be bad news for the unserious operator, but good news for all other road users, including most drivers, owners and operators of lorries who are attentive to the quality, safety and environmental standards of their vehicles.
seattle failed because the united states, in particular, proved incapable of understanding the legitimacy of policies such as environmental protection, the preservation of rural communities through the common agricultural policy, animal welfare, health issues and social rights.
another shocking waste of resources, commissioner, is women in technical, scientific and information technology fields, who squander their skills.
the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment were disastrous amendments, except for those which were adopted.
but whenever necessary, this convention should be innovative in that it should update the text of the 1950 rome convention and give it the opportunity to meet new challenges to human rights in areas such as information technology, bioethics, equality between men and women, the fight against all forms of discrimination and, above all, environmental protection.
as regards indirect taxation, in order to combat fraud, modernise and simplify the acquis in the face of economic developments, and to take account of the treaty's environmental objectives, we propose to act by qualified majority decisions.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0054/00) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a revised community eco-label award system (10656/2/1999 - c5-0223/1999 - 1996/0312 (cod)).
- (sv) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, and especially the two rapporteurs, mr schnellhardt and mr poggiolini, for the very constructive work they have done in revising this directive on the eco-label.
in particular, the proposal gives the relevant organisations and various interest groups a significant responsibility for defining the ecological criteria to be applied.
i am thinking in particular of the environmental organizations which are devoting their efforts to labelling, and of the various interest groups.
their participation is crucial if we are to encourage the development of this non-compulsory instrument for the sake of the environment and ensure that it is properly disseminated.
this is one of the few means available to europe which can play a key role in supporting a sustainable pattern of consumption in the long term.
as regards amendments nos 1, 4 and 8, which call for the active participation of environmental ngos and consumer organizations, the commission agrees that their support and cooperation will be essential to make this programme a balanced and credible project.
after all, applying for the eco-label is a voluntary process, and the fees should not reach such a level that it becomes impossible for companies that invest the maximum for the good of the environment to apply for the label.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0056/2000) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a european parliament and council directive on the incineration of waste (1142/1/1999 - c5-0274/1999 - 1998/0289 (cod)).
- mr president, i would like to congratulate mr blokland on his report which will set european standards for incineration, including for the first time emission standards for dioxins and furans; this should increase competition between the various waste disposal methods by finding the cheapest waste operator and thus help to put an end to the transport of hazardous substances throughout europe.
in view of the projected increase in incineration, it is vital that overall eu legislation on waste disposal and air quality is consistent and comprehensive.
incineration may be increasing because of stricter controls on landfills, but this does not go hand in hand with recycling and environmentally friendly waste disposal methods.
the construction of new incinerators is a costly and long-term undertaking which, in turn, must benefit long-term investors so that it is in their interest to continue incinerating waste.
this means that there is a danger of overcapacity which will lead to incineration being encouraged for profit, rather than encouraging the reduction, recycling and safe treatment of waste, which is the aim we are pursuing.
there is no safe threshold for dioxin emissions and more research is being done on the effects of microparticles on human health and the environment.
measuring emissions twice a year can provide an early indication of what is happening in an incinerator and the quality of the air that people in the local community are breathing, which would not be the case if measurements were taken once every two years.
unfortunately, this is damaging the reputation of environmental policy.
the objectives of the parliament in terms of waste management strategy are not to constantly strengthen the existing incinerator regulations, but to change the role of waste management, to change the type of waste management we carry out.
we would do much better to concentrate our efforts in the coming years on recycling, reuse and other methods of reducing the mass of waste.
although the common position sets strict controls on the permitted emissions from waste incinerators, i know that in my country, whenever a proposal to build such an incinerator is put forward, it causes a backlash, there is distrust of the operators' statements and, in a way, i understand this attitude.
many of us believe that any government in our country would encourage the construction of waste incinerators as an alternative to supporting different solutions.
we need to focus on reducing waste, recycling what is left and using incinerators as a last resort.
president of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
such incinerators typically treat animal waste from the agricultural sector and dispose of empty pesticide containers at a rate of less than 50 kg per hour.
both processes meet the criteria of the applicable best environmental option and are accepted by all environmental inspectors within the uk.
no exception was introduced for these incinerators in article 2 (2) and their closure following the entry into force of the directive would cause enormous cost and animal waste disposal problems for farmers in the united kingdom.
can the commissioner say when an opportunity might arise for a revision of this directive to introduce these exceptions - assuming that parliament ever agrees to it - and does she think that such an exception for animal waste and the incineration of empty pesticide containers in incinerators on the site is likely to be accepted?
the first point concerns the impact of this directive on the specialised industry of toxic waste incineration.
i am concerned that high calorific waste will be selected for co-incineration, increasing the cost of specialised toxic waste incinerators, which will mean that in many cases it will actually be necessary to buy fuel to reach the high temperatures required to destroy substances such as dioxin.
we need specialized incinerators for toxic waste.
if we had fewer such facilities, it would mean that toxic waste might have to be transported over long distances, which would be unacceptable for both political and practical reasons from an environmental point of view.
in addition, it would increase the cost of incinerating such toxic waste.
if these incinerators are not used, the operators may again have to bury the waste.
i think this confusion was caused by a misunderstanding between the department of the environment and the department of agriculture in britain who thought there were only 60 of these incinerators, when in fact there are several thousand.
this problem also affects hunting dog farms fed with dead animals and slaughterhouses and - oddly enough - animal crematoria, although i understand that crematoria for humans are not covered, since dead people are not classified as waste.
i would ask you to take into account in the conciliation procedure those operators who have invested in respect for the environment by installing incinerators and for whom the costs would become excessive if they were unable to continue.
the proposed directive on waste incineration touches on the heart of our environmental legislation - the protection of public health.
the proposal will reduce emissions of dioxins from incineration by 90%.
from 2005, when the directive will start to apply to existing installations, emissions of dioxins from waste incineration will be negligible.
in conjunction with the waste storage directive, this text will put an end to waste disposal methods which do not take into account the needs and interests of future generations.
the two directives provide a solid basis for the treatment of different types of waste, with improved preventive measures, increased recycling and safe storage.
i would remind you that there is already a directive on the waste hierarchy.
the commission cannot accept the first part of amendment no 14. if the term untreated were to be removed, it would no longer be possible to use mixed household waste or waste which has undergone significant pre-treatment in incineration plants.
amendments nos 1, 2 and 7 tabled by the european parliament, which seek to introduce provisions on waste treatment into the directive, cannot be accepted for reasons of principle.
the commission proposal aims to set threshold values for the quantities of waste to be disposed of and to define the practical conditions under which waste is incinerated or co-incinerated.
it must not have any impact on legislation on waste treatment.
legislation in this area already exists or is currently being developed, for example the directive on air quality and the coordination of pollution prevention and control measures, or the draft framework directive on water.
the commission will examine the possibility of extending the exemption for radioactive waste to other cases such as the case of diseased animal carcasses.
it is clear that the directive does not prescribe the incineration of this kind of waste, which would appear to be dangerous.
it deals with vegetable waste and vegetable waste does not include dead animals.
commission - sick animal waste does not fall within the scope of this directive in its common position form, because it is covered by directive 90/667.
the adoption of amendment no 4 to article 2 (2) could give the commission the opportunity to revise the text with a view to adding a specific exclusion with regard to sick animal waste.
as it stands, all other animal waste is covered by article 2 (2) (a) (v) of the directive and directive 90/667.
- the next item is the report (a5-0062/2000) by mr davies, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on ozone in ambient air (com (99) 125 - c5-0048/1999 - 1999/0068 (cod)).
- mr president, given the importance of the directive on national emission ceilings for this report on a daughter directive proposal, it is somewhat surprising that the order of the debates is as it is, because without reductions in transboundary pollutants we will not reduce ozone.
this report sets national targets for ozone levels and proposes action plans to deal with local problems of ozone over-absorption.
to save time, i will assume that the respiratory and other health problems associated with ozone are understood and that every member of this house will want to reduce them.
let me turn now to the commission's central proposal, namely the setting of a target for 2010 of 120 μg per cubic metre of ozone, not to exceed 20 days per year.
the commission's proposals for environmental improvements must be both ambitious and realistic.
it seems that many have overlooked the fact that these amendments, if adopted, would place the european union in a much weaker position on ozone targets than the united states of america.
we are aware of the growing ozone problems throughout europe, but if we are not even prepared to meet the standards being set in the usa, one of our major commercial rivals, that would be a great pity and would undermine our commitment to improving the environment.
- (sv) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection for their support for the commission's proposal and the draft report.
however, ozone is still one of our most serious environmental problems.
for more than 60 days in almost every summer, in several parts of southern and central europe, ozone levels exceed the indicative thresholds set by the world health organization.
the fifth community environment action programme set the long-term objective of not exceeding the critical levels set by the who.
the commission proposal therefore sets clear threshold values for ozone for the first time, which will have to be respected as far as possible by 2010 at the latest.
the directive on national emission ceilings, which is the next item on the agenda, will bring about improvements in ozone levels, and therefore compliance with the threshold values will be achieved in the majority of cases.
the commission agrees that the issue of climate change needs to be emphasised.
- the next item is the report (a5-0063/2000) by mrs myller, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the fixing of national emission ceilings for certain atmospheric pollutants (com (99) 125 - c5-0047/1999 - 1999/0067 (cod)).
i understand that the groups, parliament as a whole, are divided on this issue, between those who support the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy on the one hand and those who support the line of the committee on industry on the other.
i admit that the commission and some environmental groups believe that in practice we can achieve more.
however, some member states have committed to significant reductions in air pollution - although this is certainly not true for all member states.
i do not know what more the commissioner can do, but we should try to get reductions in air pollution and support her in her efforts to negotiate them.
- mr president, clearly i welcome this report and i have given it broad support in the committee on the environment.
it creates a suitable framework within which we can work, in the long term, to reduce emissions.
i have some doubts about either of the amendments that have been accepted, in particular amendment no 7, which i cannot in any way consider to be environmentally friendly or to contribute to the overall effort to reduce ozone-depleting substances at ground level, anywhere in the european union.
i do not think that is the right starting point, but it is the right starting point and that is why i was convinced when i took part in the debate in the committee on industry, when none of my colleagues from the committee on the environment took part, that this is the right starting point.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have made considerable progress in the fight against acidification and pollution in recent years.
the commission can also accept part of amendment no 11, which makes further amendments to article 9. we agree that the revision of the legislation should take into account emissions from aircraft, further emission reductions in regions bordering the community, measures taken in the applicant countries and factors in the field of transport.
the commission accepts the principles of amendment no 23. reference to countries not participating in the unece process should be limited to those that have provided data and whose emissions are related to pollution within the community.
however, we are dealing here with crossborder pollution, and the commission considers that adjustments to the ceilings for a member state can only be made in the context of a general revision of the ceilings.
the commission is committed to pursuing long-term objectives for the protection of the environment and human health, but to date we simply do not have enough information to predict when the long-term objectives might be achieved.
the commission must reject amendment no 6. emissions from international maritime traffic and civil aviation cannot be fully controlled by individual member states, or even by community action, and therefore cannot be included in national emission ceilings.
the commission will consider whether further such proposals should be made to the imo and whether international action is needed on aircraft emissions.
non-volatile organic compounds are automatically excluded from the definition of 'volatile organic compounds' contained in these proposals, as they do not end up in the air under ambient conditions and do not contribute to ozone formation.
- the agenda calls for two oral questions for joint discussion on member states' programmes under the structural funds and the national application of eu environmental legislation (b5-0014/2000 and b5-0208/2000).
the committee on the environment is very interested in finding ways of incorporating environmental considerations into other policies.
we must ask to what extent the european commission is prepared to use the provisions of articles 12 and 41 of the general regulation on the structural funds to delay the granting of funds in areas where there is inadequate information on the environmental impact of projects applying for funding.
- mr president, what is at stake in this debate is whether the eu's commitment to sustainable development in theory means anything in practice, whether, when it comes to taking action, we are prepared to take some very difficult decisions.
sustainable development is supposed to mean integrating economic development with environmental concerns.
the question of the telescoping between economic development and environmental constraints is at the heart of the debate.
this will be a test to see what our commitment to sustainable development really means.
that is why the greens strongly support the resolution of the committee on the environment.
may it, in the 21st century, use the power, genius and enthusiasm of humanity to build a more just, peaceful and sustainable world.
however, there is progress, albeit uneven, in some european regions and cities adapting to a multi-racial and multicultural environment.
- madam president, can the commission confirm that it has accepted amendment no 1 tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy?
this measure is further evidence of the eu's commitment to mainstreaming the environmental dimension in its legislation.
in kyoto, for example, deputy prime minister john prescott, against all odds, secured an agreement on global emissions cuts.
britain is already close to meeting its target of reducing its carbon dioxide emissions by 20% by 2010. not content with this, the government has just raised the target to 60-70% by 2050. this assembly should challenge other member states to follow britain's example.
the european ecolabel is just one element of the wider environmental protection strategy we need to save our planet.
but these proposals will at least have the merit of allowing the anti-european nonsense peddled by mr blokland and ukip to be eliminated in an ecological way.
it is therefore vital to manage by-products from the incineration process and prevent them from being released into the environment.
i fear that cleaning up the environment is a piece of cake compared to the task of persuading ukip to repeal its law.
do you accept that, when it comes to legislation in a democratic environment, such as the european union, the public, who are the ones the laws are about, can see and hear what their representatives are doing to vote the laws?
in any event, i would suggest, for economic and ecological reasons, that parliament should reconsider, or ask its services to reconsider, the question of the interpretation to be given to the term 'distribution'.
the results of roll-call votes could perhaps be distributed via the intranet or made available to members who need them, so as to avoid this waste and the unnecessary distribution of a 113-page roll-call document to all members.
if i may explain briefly the procedure followed, i will say that the committee on employment and social affairs voted on monday evening, together with the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, and with the agreement of its rapporteur for opinion, i have taken over some of his amendments which i tabled on behalf of my political group.
the measures you propose will help to create this climate of trust.
- my group voted in favour of mrs jackson's resolution on the structural funds and the enforcement of environmental legislation, because we believe in the need to ensure effective enforcement of environmental legislation, in this case the habitats and wild birds directives.
the members of the committee on the environment clearly have no idea of the unnecessary delays which would result from the non-approval of the structural fund programmes, nor what a new budgetary procedure would entail with not only delays but also the loss of millions for, in the case of the united kingdom, merseyside, south yorkshire, the highlands and islands, northern ireland, cornwall and the isle of wight.
the commission's policy is based on the principles of conservation and sustainable consumption, two principles according to which people and states are the best protectors of their own wild fauna and flora.
we should not waste so much time voting on amendments tabled by members whose positions have already been rejected for the first time.
commission - i fully agree that there are concerns about hazardous waste and that is why i will be putting forward proposals on the withdrawal of specified hazardous materials.
b5-0018/2000 by mr hatzidakis, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on hushkitted aircraft; - b5-0020/2000 by mrs jackson, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the need for soundproofing.
president of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
the committee on the environment is the committee in the european parliament responsible for the original aircraft noise regulation, and we have seen with some dismay that the united states was reluctant to accept that the european union was in its right when it insisted that the regulation should come into force on the date that was set.
the committee on the environment insists that we are perfectly entitled, given the large number of european airports close to population centres, to try to reduce the noise levels of aircraft landing in europe, wherever they come from and by whatever operator.
we are anxious to hear what the commissioner has to say, and i stressed that it was very important that she satisfy the environment committee and parliament, if only because if she asks us to suspend the application of any part of the regulation, the codecision procedure will have to go through this parliament.
it is about how we put into practice the amsterdam treaty on mainstreaming sustainability into all policies, even the most difficult ones.
i wonder if we can use this conflict and these negotiations with the usa to start broader discussions on a comprehensive proactive environmental policy for air transport in general.
the noise is important, but noise pollution is only one aspect of the environmental damage caused by the aviation industry.
it's the fastest growing source of greenhouse gas emissions, and we know it's absolutely not sustainable.
and in this sense we must tackle two points: from an internal point of view we must tackle the subject of air transport and the environment which was mentioned by minister coelho, which we discussed yesterday in the council and in which there is much more than just noise, there are emissions and a whole series of other points; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
however, ladies and gentlemen, if we could reach an agreement with the united states to act together to achieve better levels and higher requirements for aircraft noise emissions, i would be prepared to propose to this parliament and to the council that the effects of the current regulation be suspended as regards third countries.
- i have received a motion for a resolution from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
i would like to begin by saying that the committee on the environment would like to reiterate the demands it made last year with regard to the budget.
in addition, we are spending large sums of money on our external policies, particularly through the phare and tacis programmes, with a view to increasing the important role of the environment and sustainable development in these regions so close to our own borders.
i would like to take up the point made by my colleague, mr wuermeling, that we must pay particular attention to the risks of development in the environment in which we operate.
- mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur again for the extremely cooperative way in which he has handled this important report and i am pleased to be part of this intimate gathering of ardent supporters of renewable energy so late at night.
in order to give renewable energies the vital space and impetus they deserve, it seems to us essential and sensible to try to achieve and aim at a standardisation of the rules of the game.
this requires, first and foremost, applying downward vertical pressure on the intolerably high and legally dubious levels of subsidies that continue to flow to fossil energy sources within the european union, including - but not excusing - the coal industry in some large member states.
we were not very happy with the first versions of the report because we felt that the targets existed almost only to 'micromanage' the market for renewable energy sources.
we believe that the combination of target pressures and competition between efficient renewable energy industries should be the long-term approach.
paragraph 22 of that report calls for the creation of a european agency for sustainable energy sources.
- mr president, i am interested in this issue not from a financial point of view, in the sense that i am the chairman of the northern energy initiative, a company operating in the north east of england and which has within it a renewable energy agency whose objective is to promote the development of renewable energy.
the rate of electricity generation from renewable sources is low in the uk, i think it is among the lowest.
however, studies have shown that in my home region there is a huge potential for renewable energy projects: wind energy, including offshore installations, small hydroelectric power stations, gas from landfills, waste incineration, biofuels and photovoltaic energy.
more proactive planning assistance, preferably linked to regional renewable energy targets, and feasibility studies would be useful additions to the directive.
i urge support for the amendment to promote renewable energy in the outlying islands of the community.
i should say that the british labour members will vote against the exclusion of waste incineration from the definition of renewable energy, on the understanding that this refers to materials which cannot be recycled.
this is despite the fact that the engines in question are said to be largely compliant with all noise and pollution standards.
the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include a new provision on the protection of the environment, which would allow the member states to exempt certain limited electronic payment systems from the application of some or all of the provisions of the directive.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0084/00) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 95/53/ec laying down the principles governing the organization of official controls in the field of animal nutrition 10804/1/1999 - c5-0273/1999 - 1998/0301 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr staes)
commission - mr president, i would like to thank mr staes for his report on the organization of controls in the field of animal feed and for the broad support given to the commission's position by mr olsson, mrs klaß and mrs roth-behrendt.
in the light of the support of the house for the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, i will reiterate the arguments in favour of the original provisions of the proposal to the council.
- the next item is the report (a5-0072/00) by mr lannoye, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 95/2 concerning food additives other than colours and sweeteners (com (99) 329 - c5-0068/1999 - 1999/0158 (cod)).
we need to hear the commission on two questions of principle: firstly, do the procedures themselves need to be revised, as the commission spokesman suggested during the debate in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy; secondly, is there a more efficient way to remove additives, just like adding them to the list?
in my committee, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, we are determined to take our responsibilities as meps very seriously.
it is a challenge for parliament to play its role in helping europe to become the dynamic centre of sustainable job creation, innovation, competitiveness and modernised social welfare.
we also need new sustainable technologies.
however, you will have noticed that i did not come here to celebrate the results of the lisbon european council, because that had already been done and it would have been a waste of time.
when the lisbon european council sets very clear objectives for tax policies, to steer them in the direction of employment, or when it sets objectives for the commission for the analysis of the sustainability of social security policies up to the year 2020, it also creates a social agenda in europe and even allows the next european council to have as its theme what has never been able to be included in it for years: a social agenda.
this is a new element in the ferment of the european intellectual climate which, if it is adopted, will be a real giant leap forward for european productivity and mindsets.
other important themes such as education, aids and the environment have been addressed in the development framework, because they are essential elements of the challenge for sustainable development in africa and poverty eradication.
natural disasters, including climate change, have exacerbated the problem.
they have no water, sanitation, energy, access to healthcare and education, and no reliable shelter.
in conclusion, i am convinced that this instrument will help us both materially - i wish it had been ready when we launched the energy for democracy programme last autumn - and institutionally by providing a concrete contribution from the community to the esdp.
i have no doubt that the success of our energy for democracy programme, which i mentioned in my remarks, has been extraordinary.
as you know, mr. deputy, because you've been dealing with these matters longer than i have, we're putting a lot of energy into trying to develop an intellectually sound preventive diplomacy strategy, trying to structure the various non-military, headline-making goals that we think are necessary.
for example, you can easily tell the difference between the humanitarian aid provided by echo in serbia and the aid we have provided under the energy for democracy programme.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0083/2000) by mr bowe, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms (11216/1/1999 - c5-0012/2000 - 1998/0072 (cod)).
- mr president, i think that the european parliament is today faced with one of the most important debates of recent years, since it concerns the dangers of the spread of genetically modified organisms in our environment.
we hope that it will provide us with a set of rules to ensure the safe and prudent use of genetically modified products and organisms, with a view to ensuring the protection of the environment and public health.
in other words, under the terms of the amendments, companies would be required to take out insurance covering any damage caused to human health or the environment by gmos and could be sued if their products spread and create super-blends, if they contaminate biological products or if they prove harmful to human health.
we must ensure that when these products are grown, whether they are plants or animals, they do not contaminate others, which would cause an environmental imbalance.
many people are expressing fears about the possibility of genetic pollution and we must respond to them.
i hope that our governments will be able to assure their consumers and citizens that gmos in europe are in compliance with the strict standards we will be setting tomorrow and that public concerns about the protection of human health and the environment will be allayed.
it will create an atmosphere, an environment in which she can work carefully, conscientiously and, i hope, successfully, to make positive use of this new technology, technology that we all need to support, with the necessary precautions.
these risks cannot be eliminated; they're part of our natural environment.
but we must address public concerns about the environment, the food chain and health.
in return, we will have to ask environmental action groups to exercise restraint and responsibility in relation to this information.
fourthly, as several colleagues have pointed out, we must define responsibilities for gmos; but we need to determine whether this responsibility should be greater than for other environmental risks.
i suppose not, as long as the legislation already defines criminal, civil, environmental and product liability.
the reduction in spraying, due to the use of gmos requiring less of them, is an example of a positive point for the environment.
- mr president, i urge my colleagues to reinforce the scope of this report by emphasizing environmental responsibility.
the producers of gmos should be obliged to take out insurance to cover any damage to human health or the environment caused by the release of their products.
thousands of people in europe have chosen to boycott products containing gmos because of the real risks to health and the environment.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr bowe, and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection for their important and rapid contribution.
we need a regulatory framework, based on safety and the precautionary principle, which ensures a high level of protection for human health and the environment.
in my hearing before parliament in the autumn, i promised that i would make a special reference to gmos in the white paper on environmental responsibility.
the commission considers that the horizontal approach is the most effective way of ensuring a comprehensive liability regime for environmental damage.
at present there is no scientific evidence that all such gmos have adverse effects on human health and the environment.
it must ensure a high level of protection for human health and the environment while allowing society to benefit from these new technologies.
that is why we cannot accept amendment no 42. as you know, we have published a white paper on environmental responsibility.
we welcome any comments or opinions and are ready to discuss them because i want to make sure that this environmental responsibility book covers the issue of gmos.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report by mr papayannakis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation establishing a system for the identification and registration of bovine animals and concerning the labelling of beef and beef products and repealing regulation (ec) no 820/97 (com (99) 487 - c5-0240/1999 - 1999/0204 (cod)).
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection supported most of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur, among others, and it is doing so today.
as regards the commission's proposal, a whole series of amendments were tabled, 44 of which were accepted on 22 march by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
as for the optional system introduced alongside the new compulsory system to record all data which is not made compulsory, the commission can accept two of the four amendments accepted by the environment committee, namely proposals 33 and 35. the vote in committee showed that parliament was clearly not in favour of the amendment in principle proposed by the commission, which aims to simplify the approval procedure.
i note, however, that nine new amendments which were not accepted by the committee on the environment have been tabled for the plenary.
- i welcome mr bowe's report as a balanced and thoughtful approach to the important subject of the spread of gmos in the environment.
the three key issues addressed in mr bowe's report are environmental responsibility, antibiotics and gene transfer.
a strong directive that takes into account environmental concerns and health risks associated with gmos could go a long way towards ensuring that we realise the potential benefits of gmos and avoid the pitfalls.
- madam president, i warmly welcome the efforts of my colleague from the labour party, mr david bowe, to propose measures to control the spread of gmos in the environment.
in the context of rapidly changing science and a multitude of unknown potential effects, it is important to protect europe's citizens and our environment.
in addition, those responsible for the dissemination of gmos should bear full financial responsibility for any damage caused to human health or the environment.
the labour members of the european parliament have been at the forefront of protecting our citizens and the environment.
it will also improve the quality of life of citizens and the environment.
i fear that history will repeat itself in a disastrous way: military conflicts, environmental degradation, drought and, sometimes - this was particularly true in the past - extremely badly thought-out policies.
it is extremely frustrating that while millions of people are starving, governments spend small fortunes on weapons to wage war against each other, when the only war they should be waging is the war against hunger, the war for food security, the war against poverty and environmental degradation, a war in which we are morally obliged to help them.
this would be a disaster, not only for the health of students - our future citizens - but for the sustainability of communities as well.
in the 21st century, i fear it may be a symbol of waste and inefficiency.
however, one of the remarkable things about this communication is that it does not seem to admit that one of these global challenges must be how the air transport sector will respond to growing environmental concern and eventual environmental legislation.
as rapporteur for an excellent commission communication on air transport and the environment, i know that the issue of the environment and competitiveness is a very sensitive one and one which generates heightened feelings among all those involved in the debate.
the communication first says that the growth of the air transport sector is unsustainable and must be reversed because of its impact on the climate and on the quality of life and health of european citizens and then states very clearly that we cannot continue as if nothing had happened.
it is clear that the response of air transport to environmental concerns will have positive and negative effects on competitiveness.
let us not underestimate the environmental impact of air travel.
a report just launched yesterday in the uk by several environmental ngos, including friends of the earth, argues that a round trip flight to the us pollutes more than the average motorist in the uk for a year.
i would therefore ask that environmental mainstreaming be given a little more consideration.
rather than confining the environmental aspects of aviation to a report devoted solely to this subject, ecology should be associated with all approaches in this field, in particular the one presented as addressing competitiveness issues.
there is no doubt that air transport has made considerable progress, but i also believe that air transport has a responsibility to its passengers, its workforce and the environment.
- mr president, allow me to join in the very warm welcome given to my colleague, the approach of mrs palacio vallelersundi, and to congratulate her on the energy and tenacity with which she has defended this directive and the approach we have adopted.
there are now many areas in sub-saharan africa where, unless there is a dramatic improvement in the climate, it is unlikely that food will grow again.
parliament has particularly helped to strengthen the following points of the regulation: the reinforcement of references to environmental aspects, complementary assistance and cooperation with local host populations, the targeting of support programmes for refugee women, especially those who have been victims of rape, and a clear provision in favour of maintaining the principle of non-refoulement (protection against forced return).
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the next item is the report (a5-0118/2000) by mr carraro, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreements between the european community, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other part (7260/2000 - com (99) 229 - c5-0204/2000): i. the free movement of persons (9748/1999 - c5-0197/2000-1999/0103 (avc)); the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the common agricultural policy.
on scientific and technical cooperation between the ec and the atomic energy community, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other part (9751/1999 - c5-0200/2000 - 1999/0106 (avc)) the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the agenda calls for the report (a5-0082/2000) by mrs matikainen-kallström, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the granting of additional macrofinancial assistance to moldova (com (99) 516 - c5-0261/1999 - 1999/0213 (cns)).
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. (the sitting was closed at 10.55 p.m.)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
for that reason, the environment and consumer policy committee takes much the same line as the economic and monetary affairs committee in supporting and endorsing this report.
they also produce renewable raw materials that can replace synthetic fibres derived from petroleum and other mineral resources.
only by rapidly improving living standards, especially in health, education and employment, will stability be sustainable.
the approach taken is quite correct, not only when we make sure that we do not waste the money that is left, if any, in our budget, but also when we ask the secretary-general of parliament to provide a number of reports, for example in paragraph 6 of the resolution where we asked the secretary-general to look at the need for posts in the same way as the commission, so that we can match the need and the staff available in the long term.
sitting in three different places is the most incredible waste of time, money, travel and transportation.
the revitalization of the railway is crucial for the future of europe's transport system, our environment and our economy.
there should be no more closures and we should find more funds to improve the current rail system so that more goods are transported by rail instead of road, which is totally unacceptable from an environmental point of view.
finally, as regards the idea of proposing a euratom directive with a view to harmonizing minimum standards for nuclear safety within the european union and the importance to be attached to it in the context of nuclear safety discussions with the candidate countries, the safety requirements in each member state are more precise and stricter than those of the international atomic energy agency.
i do not see what could prevent future harmonization of the rules on the safe management of radioactive waste and the decommissioning of nuclear installations.
for example, the environment dg is developing guidelines for the periodic safety checks of soviet-designed light water nuclear reactors.
both allow waste to be reduced and concentrated efficiently and, in the case of mox production, are currently the best known answer to the problem of the safe disposal of military plutonium.
the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community is inadequate and needs to be amended to introduce the necessary directives.
but the decision by british energy, which was responsible for one third of the reprocessing process at sellafield, to switch to waste storage was mainly due to economic considerations.
waste storage was cheaper for them and evidence recently published by the nfla (local authorities against nuclear power) confirms this.
so, given the environmental pollution problems, the health impacts and the costs and the cost debate, what else can justify nuclear reprocessing?
british nuclear fuels is required to handle the levels of waste mentioned by mrs ahern earlier in the safest possible way.
i am also concerned about this because part of wales has been mentioned as a possible site for low-level radioactive waste storage.
she spoke of the pollution of the seas of ireland and denmark.
i regret that the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy did not give an opinion on mr katiforis' report - it should have done so.
i would be happy to invite mr lipietz to speak to the workers in the united kingdom who could lose their jobs as a result of decisions taken by a french owner of energy companies based in the united kingdom, whereas british companies are not allowed to enter the french market because the french have not applied the policies agreed at european level.
within three years of the dollar's crash, the mark had returned to a parity of 1.57 in december 1987. the truth is that the history of exchange rates is a history of gross mismatches, overvaluations and undervaluations, each leading to either painful depression or inflation, and, as greece rightly recognized, the euro is a means of regaining control over a vital element of our economic environment.
i would remind you that the interim and development committees of the imf and the world bank adopted an initiative on the debt of the heavily indebted poor countries at their respective annual meetings in 1996. the community and the member states have committed themselves to participate in this initiative by providing exceptional assistance to the acp countries, on the basis of the commitment made by the international financial community to bring the debt of these countries down to a sustainable level and subject to the countries concerned implementing programmes of economic reform.
the european union considers that the improvement of this initiative will have to be based on integrated programmes linking debt relief more closely to the objectives of sustainable development and poverty reduction.
- (pt) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current pre-election campaign in zimbabwe continues to be marked by a climate of intimidation of the opposition and disregard for the law and the rights of citizens.
what a waste in a country that depends on agricultural exports!
the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european space strategy, which is a matter for all of us and should serve as a basis for the decisions expected by the end of 2000 concerning the galileo programme in particular, and for the discussions already under way on the environment and security, which should lead to initiatives whose importance is highlighted in parliament's motion for a resolution.
i am extremely grateful to mrs plooij-van gorsel for the way in which she has incorporated into the report of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy almost all the points contained in the draft report of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market for which i was responsible and which is the reason for my speech this evening.
the amendments tabled by mr pietrasanta and mrs maes, which add the sustainability, environmental and health aspects to the other economic aspects we have developed, are important and should be adopted.
- mr president, i have the great pleasure of answering on behalf of the epp and de group and on behalf of my colleague, mrs quisthoudt-rowohl, who was the fictitious rapporteur on the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy and who unfortunately cannot be here tonight.
apart from industrial competitiveness, of course, we have, as mr desama has pointed out, serious environmental and social problems which need research to solve.
my own committee, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, thought it was particularly important to ensure that the applicant countries were informed of the legislation and were able to apply it as soon as possible.
given the bias in this legislation in favor of the accuser and the current climate of political correctness that we all seem to be obsessed with, many innocent employers will frequently lose their business, incurring fines, court costs and a waste of time.
this is a terrible waste for one of the most beautiful countries in the world, with a talented population.
we all know that sustainable development is a learning process and we must be able to update and adapt existing legislation to protect our fish stocks.
it is not just the management of the stock of lances that is concerned, but the preservation of the whole ecosystem of the areas where they live.
we cannot afford to make mistakes if we want to preserve our fish stocks in the long term and thus ensure the sustainability of our fishing communities.
this is a very good approach to fisheries, which takes the ecosystem into account and gives greater priority to environmental aspects than strict management of fish stock levels.
in 1998, a report by the international council for the exploration of the sea's working group on the ecosystem effects of fishing activities acknowledged for the first time that seabirds, and in particular the three-tailed gulls, which had experienced reproduction problems in the previous few years, were in fact competing with industrial fleets, and mainly with danish operators fishing for spears off the east coast of scotland and england.
i think it is unnecessary to go on and waste your precious time.
the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
the agenda calls for the report (a5-0156/2000) by mr maaten, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products (com (99) 594 - c5-0016/2000 - 1999/0244 (cod)).
it requires a balanced judgment: on the one hand, it is strange to say that what is not good for our citizens is good for export to other countries; on the other hand, it is not good for the environment.
- mr president, this report has been very controversial in the committee on industry, which approved its opinion by only 29 votes to 26. the dispute within the committee on the environment has been settled, with the main groups having reached a compromise.
we believe that nicotine and tar levels should be more strictly controlled and that further limits on carbon monoxide levels should be imposed.
i also hope that the non-eu countries will follow our example in limiting the nicotine, tar and carbon monoxide content.
this directive will save lives because it will change the content of cigarettes by reducing tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide and remove misleading descriptions such as light and mild.
in this area, we really need to be aware of the speed at which technology is evolving and how this technology is starting to change our own pattern of thinking and, of course, the whole competitive environment in which digital television and other media are developing.
i would also like to congratulate all the members of the committee on industry, foreign trade and energy on the quality of their work.
- i warmly welcome the recommendation by my colleague anneli hulthén for stricter controls on substances that deplete the ozone layer.
it will introduce new controls in the 1987 montreal agreement and provide for a higher degree of control of trade in ozone-depleting substances.
there will be a measure to prevent the hole in the ozone layer from widening.
this will protect people from sunburn and blindness from looking at sunlight through an ever-diminishing ozone layer.
stricter controls on ozone-depleting substances are only one element of a wider environmental strategy needed to safeguard our planet.
in kyoto, deputy prime minister john prescott reached an agreement to limit global emissions.
the uk is already on track to meet its target of reducing carbon emissions by 20% by 2010. the aim is now to reduce emissions by 60 to 70% by 2050. strong and coherent action is urgently needed at local, national and european level to clean up our air, soil and seas.
i have seen in particular the need to open up stocks of waste that were considered compliant a few decades ago and met the requirements of the time but no longer meet our strict standards today.
i note that the procedure proposed by the commission for financing the dismantling and waste management of research reactors has something familiar.
i am sorry to hear some colleagues propagating old myths such as 'no solution has been found for nuclear waste management'.
however, it seems to me that if we are to make any serious progress in simplifying legislation and improving the environment for smes (which, after all, is what we saw at the lisbon summit), we must improve our approach to this type of project.
this further demonstrates labour's commitment to creating an environment where entrepreneurs and businesses can flourish across europe.
however, i have chosen to speak in today's debate because some of the issues discussed in the report are at the heart of what needs to be addressed if the european institutions are to dispel the cloud of waste and waste that has been hanging over them for some time.
until we have a clearly defined, planned and effective system for assessing the success or failure of a subsidised programme, it will be all too easy to waste precious resources on ill-conceived and poorly managed projects and to continue to throw money out the window.
this is why it is called for a simple evaluation of projects to compare their effectiveness, which may need to be done by a private auditor and used with a clear and well-planned final programme that will allow mismanaged projects to be completed and end perpetual waste - in essence, integrating private sector disciplines into this system.
i shall confine myself, finally, to two comments on subjects which were raised by two members of the european parliament, in particular mrs isler béguin, who referred to environmental problems.
we should not underestimate our commitment to stronger action by the union on the environment and our willingness to follow up on the kyoto summit.
i also want to say that the french presidency will be making a full contribution to the importance of the environment in all policies during this six-month period, in liaison with the swedish presidency, which will follow, so that there is always continuity.
the commission's original proposal was made in december 1998. although the life regulation has already been the subject of two debates in plenary, i would nevertheless like to stress the importance of this programme for the protection of the environment.
it is far from the only instrument for promoting environmental objectives from the eu budget.
in this connection, i would like to mention in particular the large sums available under the structural funds, for which the environmental objective is taken into account in the context of mainstreaming, that is to say, in general.
i will also report on expenditure on the promotion of rural development, research expenditure which is available for environmental research, expenditure on the protection of tropical forests and on the promotion of environmentally friendly energy sources.
it is involved in the creation of the natura 2000 network - a measure which you also support - and it promotes the integration of environmental interests into spatial planning and encourages environmental projects in the mediterranean and baltic sea regions.
on the whole, however, the common points outweigh the differences and i would like to thank the committee on the environment, its chairman, mrs jackson, and especially the rapporteur, on behalf of the commission and in particular my colleague mrs wallström.
i would like to take this opportunity to say, as the commissioner responsible for the budget, that i would be delighted to discuss the eu budget and environmental protection with the environment committee.
the commission has worked very hard, so hard, i fear, that it has only had time for a courtesy visit to our committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
i therefore wish to express our support for the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy in this regard.
i admit that this time research is not in the budget, but we must not ignore the changes we are seeing in the energy sector with save and altener.
the figures given for save, showing a significant reduction in appropriations for energy efficiency projects, are a consequence of last year's budgetary procedure.
of course, energy is not a commodity or a service like any other.
the two directives were carefully designed to avoid a massive and sudden loss of jobs (some 250 000 jobs have been lost in this sector, and more are to follow) and to allow member states which have made considerable investments in nuclear energy, for example, to draw up strategic plans without being held back by exorbitant costs.
the socialist group tabled an amendment calling for a framework directive guaranteeing the protection of services of general interest in sectors such as energy.
the environmental consequences, however, are real and have not been seriously considered.
i am concerned about whether renewable energy will receive support in the context of a liberalised market.
we believe that greece, ireland and northern ireland should be granted a limited five-year derogation because of their specific geographical and geopolitical environment.
if we are to adopt a truly sustainable transport policy, it is essential that this trend be reversed.
this is why it is important that there is a comprehensive discussion on what the potentially sustainable wage growth rates are in each of the parts of the euro area economy, and why it can be argued that this will actually help to contain inflation with low unemployment.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has taken the logical step which the commission has avoided.
- mr president, this report, which calls for the ban on phthalates in soft pvc toys, is full of flaws and is based on a dubious legal basis, as the chairman of the scientific committee on toxicity, ecotoxicity and the environment, professor bridges, said in his speech to the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy on 23 may: 'it is difficult to see how the ban would be scientifically interpreted as a serious and immediate risk', which is the criterion for the ban imposed in december.
as chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, i would just like to emphasize that the rapporteur's task is to present the committee's report.
we have a new french presidency at the moment - i do not know if anyone is representing it here - but i recommend to the council the amendments adopted by a large majority in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
as rapporteur, he had to tell this parliament, very correctly, that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection had voted by a substantial majority - by 33 votes to 13, i think - in favour of abolishing the provisions relating to the category of animal.
now, to our surprise, the animal category has returned, and once again the environmental committee voted to abolish it.
the amendment by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy states that they could be provided on an optional basis, on request.
i very much hope that parliament will follow the example of the committee on the environment and remove these categories from the compulsory plan and that the commission and the council will also not agree to impose this additional and unnecessary burden on producers and consumers.
as the committee on the environment has said, not everything has been resolved politically.
in this case, the invention is the result of the isolation of a particular gene from its natural environment or from production by an engineering process.
the commission is actively involved in the initiative which is concerned with the influence of livestock farming on the environment and development.
this work has established the proximity and complexity of interactions between government policies and the environmental impact of livestock production and has identified a large number of technologies that can mitigate the negative effects of different production modes, provided the appropriate policy framework is in place.
on the other hand, it has supported policies to intensify agricultural systems for the benefit of smallholders, while always taking carefully into account environmental protection.
it uses and takes seriously environmental impact assessments of these activities wherever it supports agriculture.
- mr president, the main idea of the report i am presenting today is that the commission's proposal for a recommendation should be converted into a directive and, as you will see, this idea has received the almost unanimous support of the members of the committee on the environment.
if the guidelines on environmental inspections - guidelines which the commission is so anxious to preserve - were to be incorporated into a recommendation, my committee believes they would simply be ignored.
we want a directive which obliges the member states to introduce similar environmental inspections.
i must stress that what we do not want - and i say this to avoid any lawsuits of intent - is the establishment of a supranational european environmental inspection body: small officials in blue uniforms with golden stars going around the member states, reporting to brussels cases of infringement of community legislation or, in the case of germany, cases of compliance with these provisions.
i share the view of the other members of the committee that the responsibility for enforcing european environmental legislation is clearly a responsibility of the member states.
our proposal is based on an alarming finding: the non-compliance with community environmental laws.
it was also the day of the first fine imposed on greece by the court of justice, amounting to eur 20 000 per day, for non-compliance with an eu environmental directive.
because they do not have the environmental inspection systems which are the foundations on which the whole edifice of compliance with community legislation rests.
we need a directive such as the one proposed by the members of the committee on the environment.
the first problem is that we want the equal and effective application of environmental legislation throughout the union and the fact is that we all have to adopt this principle.
why have they ratified environmental legislation if, in reality, they do not have the means to properly monitor its application and if they do not intend to check whether this legislation has been applied correctly?
i believe that the activities of the european ombudsman have reached the level that one can rightly expect from a new body of 25 people working in a rather complex legal environment.
the second case concerns a petition by a spanish citizen who is a member of an environmental association which has given rise to an infringement procedure against the spanish authorities under the habitats directive, a common cause of complaint - the directive, not the authorities - with lasting national repercussions.
we would like to be involved in the preparation of joint reports in areas of particular concern such as the environment, social security, consumer protection, etc.
this causes major congestion problems but it also causes environmental problems - not only noise and pollution for people living around airports, but also impacts on the global climate.
air transport is already the fastest growing source of greenhouse gas emissions in the world and could account for up to 15% of emissions by 2050. unfortunately, this report fails to establish the vital link between congestion and reduced air traffic and therefore misses a unique opportunity to address these problems in a sustainable way.
in 1998, the international atomic energy agency declared that iraq no longer had nuclear capability.
my group therefore supports amendments nos 1 and 4. i would add, however, that it would be desirable, for reasons of ecological sustainability, to consider connections between peninsulas in the same way.
- mr president, since i am speaking on behalf of the socialist group on the danish initiative for a framework decision on the fight against environmental crime, i must say that i support the principle of this initiative.
environmental crime, whether it be illegal trade in endangered species of flora and fauna or their products, or the illegal export and dumping of toxic waste in other countries, whether inside or outside the european union, is a problem that is increasingly transnational.
it is important to have legislation in place to protect us from serious environmental offences, and this before the enlargement of the union.
we must impose significant prison sentences and financial penalties when people are guilty of crimes against the environment.
we must identify the culprits, not the victims who drive the trucks full of toxic waste or who transport the products that threaten certain species, but those who make the decisions and supply the goods, namely the big fish not the small ones.
- mr president, i have come to this house to reject this report in protest at the inaccurate and untrue comments made by mrs mckenna concerning the management of the sellafield nuclear waste reprocessing plant in the united kingdom.
we cannot accept amendment no 21 which seeks the removal of direct budgetary support, nor amendment no 27 on direct industrial cooperation and i should point out that the new enterprise policy of the commission focuses on the improvement of the business climate rather than on direct tools of cooperation.
it did the same for the appropriations requested for improving the financial environment of smes and the start-up of the life 3 programme.
of these 1254 new posts, a large proportion can be created by redeployment, so that we are requesting a total of 717 new posts 400 in 2001 and 317 in 2002 , in particular to strengthen the areas of external aid, health, consumer protection and environmental policy, and justice and home affairs.
i hope that we will all have the energy and patience to agree on a budgetary agreement.
i believe that the introduction of european citizenship has created a new legal and political environment for the commission, and we intend to draw all the practical consequences from this, both in the legislative field and in the field of day-to-day administrative action.
mr president, this is a small but significant measure to extend the duties of member states to carry out strategic environmental assessments on the planning framework as well as on the actual plans where the implementation would or could have a significant impact on the environment.
we agree that there should be adequate reporting back, not only on the environmental risks identified by the assessment, but on the action it is proposed to take to mitigate or remove them.
these governments are giving environmental assessment and europe a bad name for what are entirely excesses of their own making and they need to look carefully at their domestic policies.
it does, however, ensure that particularly at our respective borders our planning takes account of the environment quality within and across our borders when planning frameworks are being agreed.
mr president, first of all i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr bouwman, for his efforts over quite a long period of time in negotiating this very satisfactory proposal which will – as all colleagues have said so far – significantly reduce the amount of pollution dumped illegally into the seas around europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of waste from ships and cargoes.
i should say, for example, that this summer one of the news stories in the country i know best, spain, was that the southern coasts were being affected by pollution from the cleaning of the bottom of oil tankers in international waters.
i think we have reached a point which represents a great advance and will considerably improve the marine environment in the face of deliberate pollution by some vessels - because not all of them do this kind of thing - on our coasts.
with the support of those sectors most sensitive to the problem of waste and the fight for sustainable development.
we believe that issues such as waste management planning, ship delivery obligations, prior notification, controls - 25% of controls - a charging incentive for the use of port facilities to clean up the bottom of ships, will necessarily contribute to reducing marine pollution.
i would like to thank the house again for its firm stand on the need for a strengthened mechanism for reviewing the charging system, which will undoubtedly allow us to go ahead and make a detailed study of the development of the current system we have put in place and of the consequences for the environment.
as referred to in the minutes of the plenary meeting of the scientific steering committee of 10 december 1999 the chairman of the scientific committee on toxicity, ecotoxicity and the environment informed the ssc about the sctee's intention at its plenary meeting of 25 november 1999 to attach a statement to the minutes of the meeting, clarifying the interpretation of its opinion on phthalates in toys.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
my information is that they are being pushed into project funding and 18 environmental ngos, for instance, are receiving from the commission funding towards their running costs.
– mr president, i would like to start by congratulating the commission on a very timely and far-reaching communication which explicitly acknowledges the rapidly growing environmental impact of air transport and clearly recognises that this growth is unsustainable.
it is a serious environmental threat and not only is it a problem, but we are actually subsidising that sector, which is making the situation very much worse.
when you think what that means in terms of congestion and environmental impact, then clearly that is a nightmare.
obviously the environmental consequences of such expansion would be totally unacceptable and these projections only serve to show the nonsense of assuming the possibility of continuous exponential growth.
what are the environmental impacts of this growth?
on the emission side, air travel is the world's fastest growing sources of greenhouse gases which cause climate change.
that may only count for 3% of total emissions today, but by 2050 it is projected it could account for up to 15% of total global emissions or even more.
you would think that litany of environmental problems, coupled with a projected growth that is clearly unsustainable, might have produced some measures to discourage the exponential growth of this sector, but not a bit of it.
i am recommending that the eu uses the world health organisation's own guidelines for community noise to develop new guidelines for daytime and night-time exposure by 2003. on emissions, a perfectly feasible target for the developed countries would be to reduce all greenhouse gas emissions from aviation by 5% on 1992 levels by 2012, which is the first budget period according to the kyoto protocol.
in the light of those political difficulties, we are proposing instead an environmental charge based on the polluter-pays principle.
an environmental charge along the lines i have described would not have adverse effects on competition because it is levied on all airlines using eu airports regardless of their origin.
mr president, i should like to begin by saying that all members of this house care deeply about the environment despite the fact that the rapporteur and members of the greens would have you believe otherwise.
environmental concerns must, however, be balanced against the needs of the aviation industry to ensure its success in the future.
in terms of environmental impact, aviation uses less than 8% of the land required for rail and less than 1% required for road use.
over the past 15 years co2 emissions have declined by 70% and unburned hydrocarbons by 85%.
aviation is responsible for just 2.5% of co2 emissions.
the industry already pays all its infrastructure charges, some of which go towards environmental improvements.
i do not think there is a good environmental argument for trying to drive most of the population of the united kingdom into the bottom south-east corner.
that said, it is also clearly absurd to exempt aviation from the duty to diminish greenhouse gases and ozone depletion and it is also a good thing to look towards an equality of taxation across the european union, as mrs lucas has done, rather than grossly distorting differentials between different parts.
it has come up with a proposal that sets challenging, but achievable, targets which protect the environment whilst also recognising the interests of road users and tyre makers.
we now have a legally enforceable directive which means that the environment of the community over the next twenty years really has the opportunity of improving.
what i would like the commission to confirm, if possible, is if the work at temelín follows the recommendations of twelve inspections by the international atomic energy agency and that it will, in fact, create safety standards equivalent to those in our member states.
it is as much a taxpayer’s crisis as an energy crisis.
energy supply is more elastic than demand.
nevertheless, the price increases and the tax protests are timely, to remind us both about our dependence in europe on imported energy and about the difficulties we face in achieving environmental objectives such as co2 emission reduction.
if taxation of energy is to be used for pursuing environmental aids, then the policy has to be transparent and consistent so as to carry public opinion with us.
to put fuel taxes up so much as to make industry uncompetitive while reducing taxes on domestic household energy consumption, is crazy politics and bad economics.
we cannot avoid the other choice and the real question which is: how do we use a finite resource when demand is increasing and we have environmental promises?
we have the opportunity to tell our people that we do care about the big issues that they care about, that we can help deliver a better peace, security, prosperity, environment and quality of life – issues that can genuinely be helped best at a european level.
a common and uniform and centralised standard on how you climb a ladder is not necessary and it is an undesirable interference with the way people run their work environment.
in order to achieve this, we need to create a regulatory environment conducive to risk capital.
in order to unlock this potential we need to make changes, not only to the regulatory environment but also to the culture.
however, these two specific issues should not make us forget other aspects which the honourable members have highlighted, such as the improvement of the economic, regulatory and normative environment, which is essential if venture capital is to have the same dynamism as it has in the united states.
the special european council in lisbon stressed that 'the efficiency of private capital markets is essential for innovative and high-growth smes and for the creation of new and sustainable jobs'.
this is nowhere more true than in the case of nuclear power, where legitimate concerns over nuclear and environmental safety are in danger of being hijacked by the anti-nuclear power lobby.
in recent weeks we have all been reminded of the perils of over-dependence on oil and the need for diversity in energy provision.
safety considerations must of course remain paramount but other factors must also be taken into account in determining the country's most suitable long-term energy strategy.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
we are building a compendium of directives and regulations on matters wholly germane to health, such as pollution, emissions of radioactive and other dangerous substances, waste disposal, water, air, soil quality, food safety and novel foods and product liability.
in addition to the financial support being given by the eu for the closure programme, we must also provide support to develop a genuinely sustainable energy strategy.
certainly the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy was the correct committee to bring these proposals forward in view of what we have heard.
these three conditions are firstly that the commission makes a success of its own pre-accession strategy, particularly in the areas of regional policy, agricultural policy and environmental policy.
for those of us comfortable and secure enough to fashion our own working and social environment, we can only begin to imagine the appalling, and sometimes life-threatening, discrimination which people face daily.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
i welcome your reference to this question in amendment no 37. i can also agree to the idea of extending the wording of article 4(2) to include organisations providing services in a religious environment, as we realise that the wording of the commission's proposal was very rigid.
i shall have the opportunity to present these guidelines in detail and to discuss them in depth at the meeting of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy on 12 october.
many of the ideas that we discussed in the report from the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy have been taken on board.
one may, of course, expand on his wish – which i deduce from his words – to comply with the undertakings which we entered into in kyoto, by saying that other forms of energy may also help us attain that aim.
for example, nuclear energy is a very clear case in point.
it is not part of my portfolio to deal with energy, and particularly not with nuclear energy, but since mr martin has embarked upon an economic line of reasoning then i feel free to make this remark.
is it not the case that there should be at least as much consideration given to the safety of people in the latter environment, particularly since, in the time since the 1999 directive came in we know a great deal more about the possible harmful effects of ionising and non-ionising radiation on young people?
was that, i ask, not a waste of commission and parliament time and indeed money, then and now.
these ships provide transport for passengers and goods and ensure the sustainability of some of europe's most remote and fragile communities.
you can count on my full energy to get it done and to support the financial commitment of 50 million euros.
i have also seen a strong demand for a genuine community strategy on the working environment, with particular reference to health and safety.
finally, a word about the spirit or climate of biarritz: mr dupuis must have misunderstood me earlier.
i may have a difference of opinion on the climate or the weather in biarritz with mr moscovici, who knows this region of the pyrenees probably better than i do, there were clouds, there was wind, but i mainly emphasised the tone of the debates, their tonic and voluntarist character.
i would reassure her and tell her that we are determined, together with the presidency, to push for the extension of the qualified majority to the environment, on the basis of the proposals made by mrs de palacio on european energy policy in terms of supply, economy, support for renewable energies, including in the negotiations we have just discussed for the igc.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
last year when we were discussing the budget, we had politicians in the member state governments who were posturing on the issue of renewable energy, whilst at the same time proposing major cuts to the save programme in this parliament.
the priorities should be clean technology, environmental protection and remediation and safety for the future.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
– mr president, as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment on this year’s budget, i want to acknowledge the difficult framework in which it has been constructed and the serious pressures upon all of us.
it demonstrated that those bodies did not recognise the importance of this programme to the environment.
a similar injustice has been done to the environment agency, given its increased workload as a result of enlargement.
they are the main objectives of the environment committee.
it is the duty of the house to give those points their support in the vote this week, to demonstrate its continued commitment to protecting the environment and improving public health.
if we are looking for waste and fraud, it is not just found within the european union.
over the last few weeks in britain alone i have monitored what the press has been saying about cases of fraud, waste and mismanagement in britain: social security fraud – gbp 4.5 billion; serious fraud offices investigating 81 cases covering gbp 1.4 billion; housing benefit fraud – gbp 185 million; giro cheque fraud – gbp 240 million.
mr president, will the president-in-office join me in expressing regret at the killings on 9 july 2000 of two of the young men of the atlantis ecological group: tristan james, grandson of the founder of the group, jenny james, who lives in colombia, and javier nova, the boyfriend of one of jenny’s young daughters, who were brutally murdered by a renegade group of farc rebels when they returned to the area they had both lived in for most of their 18 years to visit relatives there.
in the uk at least, the commission is synonymous with fraud and waste.
without wishing to give offence to our host city here in strasbourg, our monthly part-sessions in this city are a manifest waste of time, money and parliament’s ability to be effective and efficient.
we accept that there is waste and inefficiency in the development budget.
his appointment must be by the commission, but after a hearing by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, probably involving other committees such as the committee on agriculture and rural development.
we want an annual report to this house and we want the director, when he or she is appointed, to be available to the committee on the environment and indeed the agriculture committee and to this house in general to report back.
we already seem to have devastating evidence of the impact of climate change, yet, when members of the committee on the environment had a recent meeting with members of the united states congress, fortunately via a video link, the impression they gained was that congress will not agree to the ratification of kyoto.
now, if the united states cannot agree such pro-environment measures when its economy is prospering to such a great extent, what chance will we have another time, when things may not look so good?
we would also like to hear from the commission a clear timetable of its plans for climate change measures next year.
i realise that this may mean lifting the veil on the 6th environment action programme, but this would be an opportune moment to clarify the broad lines of what we may expect.
finally, given that we know the causes of climate change, or are fairly clear that we know the causes of climate change, future generations will hardly forgive us for being so slow to deal with it.
but we could at least devote more resources to developing alternative, renewable energy sources, and to making them into real alternative options soon.
the chairman of the health science committee spelt out, from the american point of view, that this was an economic issue, not an environmental one.
there was no recognition of the need to make sacrifices or to accept that we have historic responsibilities on both sides of the atlantic as the largest emitters of greenhouse gases.
for all our good intentions, however, it looks as though in the european union far from cutting co2 emissions by the end of this decade we shall end up increasing them.
if we are serious about the environment, these must be resisted.
i say "yes" to emissions trading – let us get on with it.
let us also hurry up with the measures we need to take in each member state cutting traffic emissions, increasing energy efficiency, promoting renewables and chp.
the sad truth is we will not succeed in preventing climate change anyway, but if we do not start taking action now, the problems will become all the worse.
mr president, the commission and others have predicted that most member states will not achieve their targets for limiting greenhouse gas emissions in line with the commitments under the kyoto protocol, so it is essential that effective measures are implemented now.
one estimate says that 10,000 people have been killed in the past two years because of the effects of climate change, the majority of them in the developing countries.
we can, and must, adopt effective and innovative solutions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and at the same time protect our society and our jobs.
because the uk is introducing a climate change levy next april, i commissioned research on the effects of this on industry in my own constituency.
the evidence suggests that not only could it keep britain on track to meet its emissions target, but the levy could actually encourage a small increase in employment.
the debate has moved on and we need to look at reducing emissions, not as a threat, but as a challenge and an opportunity.
yet my trees, and those of many others, clean up co2 emissions discharged by some of the wealthiest companies in the land.
no woodland owner gets a penny piece directly from this important social function and monetary payments for environmental permits and their trading must, it seems to me, have to work their way through to those who actually grow and manage the trees and not be expropriated by exchequers and others on the way.
given the potential of biomass and other crops for energy generation and for the production of hydrogen, if one contrasts the quantity of money supporting the production of unwanted food, and compares that with support for these alternative outputs and their utilising technologies, the disparity is self-evident.
there is a very strong case for rebalancing the figures because unless new, sustainable agricultural outputs are devised, farming and the countryside's problems can only get worse.
this is as much a matter of cap reform as it is of environmental policy and it is only by drawing together the two that sensible progress can be made.
mr president, the issue of global warming, although not yet proven beyond doubt, is of the greatest concern for the world at large and knows no respect for national boundaries.
as a supporter of free markets and the huge prosperity and freedom which they have brought to countless millions, i welcome the harnessing of market mechanisms wherever possible to facilitate environmentally-desirable goals such as the reduction of co2 emissions, as proposed by the commission's green paper and mr moreira da silva's report, which i welcome broadly, and will help, no doubt, achieve the kyoto targets.
i put down two amendments, one calling for further research into the other greenhouse gases such as methane, soot, cfcs, etc.
the second amendment i put down was for the granting of credits to national quotas for the planting of forests, which, as my colleague lord inglewood pointed out before, act as carbon sinks.
one is the issue of an eu-wide carbon tax, which i reject both because it encroaches on prerogatives on taxation and because it would drive jobs offshore to non-eu jurisdictions, in my view, and be damaging to our economies.
i personally support grandfathering along us lines to prevent penalisation of existing heavy energy using industries and doubly rewarding those industries which have made energy savings in the past and hence savings on their electricity costs.
lastly, i too, like my colleague mrs kauppi, support nuclear energy as the only long-term solution to reducing co2.
there must be very great concern about the long-term effects of putting thousands of chemicals into the natural environment, but it is difficult to identify exactly which chemicals to target.
there is no waste in cod.
sustainable fisheries, where fishermen and their families can survive alongside conservation measures, are mutually beneficial.
that will allow cod stocks time to replenish in order to ensure sustainable fisheries again.
i particularly want to mention the innovation in the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, which held a hearing on the issues raised in mrs montfort's report.
it is, however, also true that there are some public goods that can be pursued only at the most general level and there are, indeed, aspects of environment protection, aspects of species protection, for example, aspects also of single market law, aspects of law against protectionism, aspects of law to govern the internet, which can only be approached at a level at least as general as the european level.
there is over-fishing, pollution of our seas, the climate is changing – we see that at the conference at the hague at the moment – and the physical alteration of the environment puts increasing pressure on these finite resources.
it will truly make for sustainable fisheries.
in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, under the wise guidance of our rapporteur, we passed a series of amendments which, again, my group would commend en bloc to the house today.
with the toughening of legislation on landfill there has been significant increase in waste incineration, and i know from my own experience in my constituency in wales that incineration of hazardous and non-hazardous waste is as much a concern, in terms of its effects on health and the environment, as is landfill.
it is essential that we do not replace one unhealthy and unsustainable form of waste disposal with another.
it is not a clean and safe method of waste disposal.
genuinely sustainable alternatives must be funded and promoted and far more must be invested in research and in developing waste prevention, re-use and recycling.
that is why i welcome these standards for co-incineration of municipal waste and the transportation of waste, which should help bring an end to the present trade in waste where areas with the cheapest operators and the lowest standards become the co-incineration capitals of europe.
in particular, i welcome the commitment to improving public access to information on incineration plants and the obligation on plant operators to publish an annual report on emissions.
the introduction of much stricter nitrogen oxide limits for new co-incineration plants such as cement kilns is also a step forward which will be an incentive for reducing emissions even though the standards proposed do not reflect the best available techniques.
overall, this much needed legislation will put in place safeguards to limit the worst effects of incineration on health and the environment and, i hope, discourage incineration-for-profit, which depends on the creation of more and more waste.
but above all he draws attention, for example in paragraph 3, to the significant problems regarding the long-term sustainability of public health care systems throughout the eu because of the increasing cost of advances in treatment possibilities, as well as the growing demand from an increasingly elderly population.
waste products could be sold to processors for £25 a ton.
renewable energy is by far the largest source of energy currently in use in the world.
but tonight we are talking of extending the use of renewable energy.
we want: binding targets, not indicative cut targets; a rational definition of renewable energy – energy from waste, which is to be incinerated anyway, is a good idea.
but mixed household waste; old paint brushes, polystyrene packaging and discarded plastic toys are not renewable energy.
another directive is needed for energy from waste, as mrs rothe suggests.
thirdly, we want a reasonable and therefore a longer period of certainty in which renewable energy can continue to receive compensation for the external costs to society which its use avoids.
mr president, commissioner, we warmly support the draft directive for electricity from renewable energy sources.
we see it as building on the work of our colleague, mr mombaur, in advocating a greater share of electricity and energy in the european union from these sources.
clearly, the issues that divide the house are quite stark: the issue of the definition of renewable energy, for instance.
many of us feel that energy from waste should be included.
it seems a pity to exclude any category which can contribute to the overall achievement of energy from waste – whether it is for small-scale projects or part of the overall calculation.
also, we will need europe's assistance in establishing and resolving the great ecological problems caused by the use of depleted uranium in the bombing of yugoslavia.
as we sit here in our climate-controlled comfort, the democratically elected parliamentarians of burma are under house arrest, in hiding and under the gravest possible threat.
we can change our pattern of agricultural production and we can use strategic environmental impact assessment to enable us to work with nature rather than assuming we can conquer it.
in global terms, we know our use of fossil fuel is profligate and we have not taken sufficient steps to reduce the climate-change gases we produce.
we have to implement the agreements we have already reached, but we also have to do as the treaty states and integrate the environmental perspective into all areas of union policy and practice, and member states must be prepared to do this as well.
we have to pay the full price for these fuels and we have to shift to a low-carbon economy.
the eu has a wonderful opportunity to really take a lead in this change to an ecologically sustainable society where we will not have to deal with floods partly caused by our own inability to face up to the consequences of our own actions.
there was a destruction of homes, of energy, communication and transport networks.
the resolution calls on the commission and the member states to waste no time in expressing their support in practical ways by marshalling workers and equipment under the five-year plan establishing a community action programme in the field of civil protection which was adopted on 9 december 1999. we also call on the commission to make use of all existing funding: erdf, eaggf, guarantee section, which have already been assigned for use in dealing with disasters of this nature to provide financial aid to smes, to farmers, to households, the elderly and others affected, particularly those living in exposed areas who have limited protection as recompense and as assistance towards a speedy recovery.
they are meeting to discuss progress on climate change.
last monday jan pronk, holland's environment minister, stated that the effect of climate change is irreversible for ecosystems, agriculture, water supply and health.
we must take stock and take serious action to cut carbon dioxide emissions.
i further ask, in addition to the resolution that we have tabled, that we here in parliament hold a public hearing on climate change in the near future and i now ask the committee of presidents to consider this.
– madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for inviting me to share with you my impressions of the sixth conference of the parties, the so-called cop6, to the united nations framework convention on climate change, that took place the past two weeks in the hague.
the european union negotiating position concentrated on safeguarding the environmental integrity of the kyoto protocol in the areas of land-use change and forestry, the “sinks” issue, the relation between the kyoto mechanism and domestic action, known as “supplementarity”, and compliance.
nevertheless, there was sufficient evidence that the environmental integrity would be seriously compromised.
for example, a set of proposals responding to developing countries’ needs and concerns was drawn up, including new funding and new institutions, but also a more focused approach on climate change within the global environment facility – the so-called gef.
also progress was made at the technical level on other issues, such as policies and measures to reduce emissions, capacity building, technology transfer, emissions trading, joint implementation and compliance.
however, the internal preparation for ratification through the european climate change programme and the development of a european union emissions trading scheme will continue.
(applause)
chairman of the committee of the environment, public health and consumer policy.
given the – surprise – glowing report by mr prescott on the deal which he had himself brokered, why was it that not only madam voynet but, i believe, and this is my last question to the commissioner, most of the other environment ministers in europe all rejected that?
in conclusion i regret that this has happened, but i hope that we will in the end share mrs wallström’s optimism and get the kind of agreement on climate change which we need.
the disagreement within europe is all the more regrettable because my overriding impression of the convention was of a european union negotiating as a closely-knit team, from a position which crossed party lines and united member states behind shared principles, a shared outlook and a shared sense of anger at the refusal of the americans to face up to their responsibilities as the world’s largest emitters of greenhouse gases.
therefore, we must give greater priority to bringing in and gaining the support of nations elsewhere, to getting emissions trading up and running, and to taking real action to reduce global warming gases in this union.
many of us believe that any shift of competence from member states to the commission can only be contemplated after a complete restructuring of the eu’s trade policies and processes as a whole, to infuse them with far greater democracy and transparency, and to ensure that they are based on true social and environmental sustainability.
we held a very successful public hearing on the reforms where we brought in people from private and public industry to give us the environment, the organisational and human resource changes that are going on around us, in which the commission is going to have to move forward with these reforms.
how can we accept that the development of maritime transport, which is so necessary for our trade and commerce, is at the expense of human safety and the environment?
this determination is beginning to pay off here in brussels, in the european parliament, so that only safe and sound ships, with trained crews and in normal living and working conditions, are allowed to circulate, so that responsibility finally rests with each of the actors in maritime transport, so that the rules of maritime transport finally evolve taking into account the law of the coastal state and its aspiration to protect its environment.
– madam president, i believe it is beyond doubt that the commission, like the french presidency considers the question of maritime safety and environmental protection to be of extreme importance.
the european public no longer tolerates oil spills or other environmental disasters caused by industrial accidents in shipping or otherwise.
this set of measures will propose the creation of a european maritime safety agency, a new european system for the adequate compensation of oil pollution victims and a new traffic surveillance system for eu waters.
we must protect our environment and, ultimately, we must save lives at sea.
these disasters, in addition to irreparable ecological damage, have also had a devastating effect on local industries.
in the case of erika, the local fisheries and aquaculture industries have been hit hard, and it is important not only to consider the tragic consequences that can be observed immediately after the disaster, but also to look beyond and consider the long-term harmful effects of oil pollution.
one of the principal improvements concerns a new lower tar ceiling and, for the first time, a carbon monoxide and nicotine ceiling in cigarettes.
tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide levels.
these arguments include less energy consumption; transport; hotels and restaurants, which have found planning easier; leisure activities; increasing the quality of life; and helping to prevent disruption of people's bio-rhythms.
there are other issues we would still like to look at, issues like energy consumption and health and safety, as they relate to summer time; but the strongest argument is undoubtedly that we want to allow new member states the opportunity to come into line with the arrangements.
– i thank parliament, particularly the members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and, above all, the rapporteur, mr trakatellis, for the great efforts made to ensure that this proposal can be adopted in one reading and in record time.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m. (the sitting was closed at 8.46 p.m.)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
secondly, we must take great care to ensure diversity of production and supply in terms of energy.
could the president-in-office agree that there can be substantial benefits for the environment, human health, developing countries and european science and business from gmo crops?
there will also need to be serious reform of the media, with a real effort to create a genuinely open and pluralistic media environment, living up to the highest professional standards of impartiality and independence, especially in television.
it matters because of its size – the world's fourth largest country in terms of population; it matters because of its economic scale; it matters because of its regional role; it matters because of its environmental impact.
when i was the minister for the environment in britain i was responsible for producing a rural white paper, which dealt with some of the problems relating to rural post offices, so i do not take messages from the labour party, however nicely spoken by mr simpson.
mr president, it is a waste of time: there are none so deaf as those who will not listen.
i am sure there will be discussion too of other areas where the united states and the european union do not quite see eye-to-eye, for example, on the environment where we must make every effort to support work to salvage a deal on climate change.
the tabd, the business dialogue was very successful in its last meeting in cincinatti, but we note that since then the environment dialogue has closed down in the last couple of weeks.
mr president, there seem to be many issues which this summit should address on its agenda, and one that i would like to see there is follow-up to the disappointing breakdown of the climate change talks in the hague and how to get the us to take its responsibilities more seriously.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
mr president, i would like to warmly welcome the report on aviation fuel tax because it addresses head-on the fact that aviation is the fastest-growing source of greenhouse gas emissions and that far from discouraging these emissions, the current exemption of aviation from a fuel tax actually promotes and artificially stimulates the aviation sector and the environmental damage that goes with it.
i particularly welcome the fact that the report reinforces one of the key points that i made in my report for the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism which this parliament voted on a few months ago, namely, that since it is undoubtedly politically difficult to achieve international agreement on an aviation tax, at least in a short term, we should look at alternative tools to achieve the same effect, including an emissions charge.
it could be agreed very swiftly without requiring international consensus, and could help make significant progress towards internalising environmental costs.
so, instead of trying to meet projected demand we need to try to manage and reduce that demand by ensuring that the price of aviation more accurately reflects its environmental cost.
it makes no sense at all that i can travel from london to brussels return for just £89 by virgin airways, for example, yet when i use eurostar, which produces far fewer greenhouse gases and is a much more pleasant way to travel, i have to pay the equivalent of around £250 for a similar journey.
so to conclude, action in this area is overdue and if we do not do something about it very swiftly then our efforts to try to reduce the impacts of climate change are going to be stymied.
in addition, to impose this tax would bring little benefit to the environment, as was proven by the introduction of the air passenger duty tax in the united kingdom.
aviation is in fact responsible for 2.5% of co2 emissions world wide.
while the expansion of air traffic and the environmental problems of global warming and pollution are serious and important issues, i feel that a more effective approach would be to tackle this within an international framework.
by focusing our attention too narrowly on only the activities which take place within the eu, we risk harming our industry without achieving much-needed progress in lowering emissions.
however, it should also be noted that the current climate, in which conditions are not favourable for further vat rate harmonisation to be achieved rapidly, makes any significant progress in the near future very unlikely.
the commission's communication on taxation of aviation fuel was in response to the council's request in its resolution of 9 june 1997. in that letter, the council asked the commission to provide further information on all aspects of the introduction of such a tax and in particular on the environmental impact, the competitiveness and profitability of the aviation industry in the european union in relation to its competitors outside the union and the possibility of using other instruments with similar effects.
this communication took account of the conclusions of an extensive study which concluded that the environmental effects and the effects on tax revenues and other effects depend mainly on two factors, namely the amount and the scope of the tax.
nevertheless, the community can strongly urge that the revision of the existing icao provisions on the taxation of aviation fuel be included in the work programme of that organisation and highlight the expected positive environmental effects of such a measure to other members of icao.
the european parliament considers that in a fast-growing sector such as aviation, the environmental impact of relatively minor measures can never be considered negligible.
this would be possible after the council had adopted the commission proposal on the restructuring of the taxation of energy products, which has been before the council since march 1997 and which, as this house knows, has not yet been implemented.
secondly, i would say to the honourable member that it is the french judiciary which could have the power to confiscate or freeze the funds of a particular company in order to compensate for damage or otherwise, and which could establish liability beyond what is provided for under the objective criteria of the current international regulations on oil pollution.
however, in order to ensure effective political control by parliament, i have endeavoured to keep the european parliament informed as far as possible, and i informed your committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy in particular of this initiative on 11 october last, and i am of course prepared to go back to the committee responsible in your parliament to discuss this proposal.
the commission has already taken the initiative in the field of the environment, and i would like to reassure you that this initiative is not intended to solve this problem, since the additional quantities that could be imported into the community market are small.
we need your help to be able to persuade our constituents and our farming community that the claims made by the anti-european wing in our political environment, and indeed others, are wrong.
seeing that the americans are not yet out of our sight, europe can meet this challenge by focusing on this sector: let us not forget the potential for job creation and economic growth in such a huge and rapidly developing sector, provided we create the right environment for growth.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
we also called for measures in the world trade organisation, perhaps a regulation, which would ensure that it is possible, in the context of the wto, to invoke other obligations, such as those we have under multilateral environmental agreements, to extend the scope of the precautionary principle.
we must ensure for example that the burden of defending precautionary measures, especially for developing countries, does not reduce their capacity to protect health and the environment through precautionary action.
mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating my colleague, mr langen, on his excellent report which, as he says, was carried through the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, unanimously.
i have had some experience of dealing with terrorism myself in another environment and i very strongly support those who resist terrorism.
she regrets that she cannot be here to answer the questions in person because she is engaged in meetings in brussels to prepare for next week's important ministerial meeting on climate change.
chapter iii of the euratom treaty headed "health and safety" is the legal basis for the three directives that are potentially relevant, directive 89/618/euratom on informing the public in the event of radiological emergency, directive 96/29/euratom on basic safety standards and directive 92/3/euratom on the supervision and control of shipments of radioactive waste.
article 37 of chapter iii concerns plans for the disposal of radioactive waste.
the procedure under article 37 of the euratom treaty relates to the submission of plans for the disposal of radioactive waste so as to enable the commission to determine whether the implementation of such a plan is liable to result in the radioactive contamination of the water, soil or airspace of another member state.
a letter was sent by the commission to the british authorities on 10 october 2000. this requested information on: firstly, the existence of an intervention plan for the area of gibraltar and for the port of gibraltar under the terms of article 50 of directive 96/29/euratom; secondly, measures taken to inform the public in the event of a radiological emergency in connection with the repairs being carried out to the submarine in the port of gibraltar; thirdly, whether these measures take into account the possible impact on spanish territory; fourthly, whether there are any plans for shipment of radioactive waste resulting from the repair of the submarine from gibraltar to the united kingdom.
the british authorities state that there will be no shipment of radioactive waste that will transit through any other member state; they also state that they are in regular contact with the spanish authorities.
it is clear, however, that article 37 relates to the disposal of radioactive waste in general.
there is one aspect of the euratom treaty which is the transport of contaminated waste between member states of the european union; but, of course, gibraltar is part of the united kingdom and any contaminated waste will go from one part of the united kingdom to another part of the united kingdom, without passing through any other member state in the european union.
mr president, obviously the best way to avoid the threat of radioactive pollution is to do without nuclear installations entirely.
are military matters going to take precedence over our responsibility to our common environment and the threats to the health of our citizens?
third, the supervision and control of shipments of radioactive waste.
this competence enables the commission to ensure that member states first inform the public of potential risks and the steps that should be taken should a radiological emergency occur; and second, adequately control and supervise shipments of radioactive waste.
an additional point which has been raised, it came up both before i spoke previously and since – an additional point in this context is the applicability of article 37 of the euratom treaty concerning the submission of general data relating to plans for the disposal of radioactive waste.
speaking, finally, not as a commissioner but as a politician who was once also an environment minister, it seems to me that the important thing in cases like this is to make as much information public as possible.
on social protection policies: in its work programme for 1999, the commission paid particular attention to ways to reverse the trend towards early retirement, to explore new forms of gradual retirement and to make pension schemes more sustainable and flexible.