they are a great help to the member states, and i would particularly like to stress the importance which the commission attaches to the issues of sustainable development, the increase in the number of jobs - with emphasis on equal opportunities - and transport.
until now, little or no attention has been paid to the enormous problems of the union's island regions, where deficiencies in infrastructure, transport, communications and energy invariably lead to desertification.
- (el) mr president, it is important that the guidelines make it possible to give a good direction and to increase the effectiveness of the programmes for the crucial seven-year period 2002-06, so that sustainable development, support for employment, particularly for women and young people, finally become a reality, and that the balance between economic, social and environmental policies is ensured.
the union's cohesion policy must be further strengthened, because a europe with regions with huge disparities in living standards cannot be credible or sustainable.
secondly, in addition to the responsibilities of the shipowners, it would be useful to examine, in such cases, those of the charterers, for example oil companies, which are also involved in the occurrence of an ecological disaster such as this, as well as in the reparation of damage.
from this point of view, the reactions to the ecological catastrophe are fully justified.
the commission acknowledges that turkey has signed and ratified the nuclear safety convention and accepts that the responsibility for licensing and regulating the location, construction, commissioning, operation and decommissioning of nuclear power plants lies entirely with the turkish atomic energy authorities.
the commission is not mandated to impose limits on the decisions taken by any country in terms of energy production, including nuclear power.
according to information provided by the international atomic energy agency, the design of the plant takes into account the possibility of earthquakes more violent than any recorded in the region and, in particular, ten times more powerful than the one recorded in adana in june 1998. significant design margins are provided to ensure safe operation of the plant in accordance with the environmental conditions of the site.
it notes that turkey has signed and ratified the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and has subsequently concluded a comprehensive safeguards agreement with the international atomic energy agency.
with this project, it aims to increase its energy potential by 2%.
it also aims to establish and maintain protection of nuclear installations against potential radiological risks in order to protect people, society and the environment from the harmful effects of ionising radiation that may be emitted by such installations.
with this plant, turkey is seeking to increase its energy potential by only 2%.
such a tax, at a low but gradual rate, must be designed so as not to have an adverse effect on the real economy - trade and investment - and to free up funds for education, the environment or development.
the society in which we live has created a hostile environment for women.
for example, health, energy, culture, transport, even tourism.
we will thus create a favourable climate for cooperation in quality reform.
- would you allow me to extend the reply that margot wallström has just given to president david martin, to say to him that since it was a joint letter between our two predecessors, whom i regard as the successor of mrs wulf-mathies, that letter is still valid and that i am working with margot wallström in good faith to verify the compatibility of projects financed by the structural funds with the union's environmental directives and policies.
it is also a former minister for the environment who answers to you, mr president martin.
- (el) mr president, first of all we would like to denounce the immense hypocrisy of those who, while claiming to be defenders of the environment and water, cause, by means of criminal actions such as the aggression perpetrated against yugoslavia, not only thousands of deaths and injuries, but also enormous ecological disasters which also affect water resources by making them not only unusable but also extremely harmful.
in recent years, due to climate change, mediterranean countries have been facing serious problems of flooding or drought.
i believe, mr president, that even with these observations, the common objective of a sustainable use of water resources is maintained.
- (el) mr president, life has been the community's principal instrument since 1992 to support and develop its environmental policy, both within the european union and in its periphery with third countries.
based on the experience gained over the last eight years, the aim is to increase the effectiveness of environmental actions in phase iii of the implementation of this financial instrument.
the financing of actions for the implementation, adjustment and development of community policy in the field of the environment, but also for the integration of the environment into other policies, as well as the contribution to sustainable development, is an essential element of the proposed regulation.
in the life-nature theme, which is mainly aimed at establishing the natura 2000 network, it is important to introduce the multinational approach in the development of international actions and projects in order to avoid the fragmentation of biotopes and to strengthen the protection of biodiversity.
the integration of the environment into other policies is clearly part of the second theme, life-environment, which is more concerned with demonstration projects for the industrial sector of smes and local authorities.
if the means necessary for protecting the environment are not guaranteed, the growing importance attached to it in recent years, as well as the integration of the 'environment' dimension into other policies, will remain a dead letter.
in addition, the growing challenges facing the union and the very serious problems facing the applicant countries in the field of environmental protection cannot leave us indifferent.
the pollution of a tributary of the danube and of the river itself, which has occurred in recent days, is instructive in this respect, mr president.
i therefore consider that the strengthening of environmental actions through the life financial instrument guarantees the promotion of community policy in this field and contributes to a large extent to the achievement by the community of its mission of a high level of protection and improvement of the environment.
the following issues are of particular importance: - the new water indices must be mandatory; - provision must be made for the protection of groundwater against pollution; - provisions must be made for the purification of polluted groundwater; - the release into water of some 400 dangerous substances must be prohibited, whereas these are not currently subject to any effective control; - a system for determining pollutants in water must be set up as a matter of urgency; - the environmental cost must be included in the cost of water supply services; - if it is appropriate, in general terms, to take the cost of water supply into account in the price of water, special derogations must be provided for regions suffering from a permanent drought and for regions with a more disadvantaged social or economic situation, for example, in relation to the short-term implementation of the directive;
in writing.
the broad guidelines of the economic policy implemented; the stability pact and rigorous convergence programmes which have a severe impact on employment and promote employability and flexibility in labour relations and organisation; decisions of the commission and the ecb aimed at controlling wage and salary increases; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good example of the need to ensure that the environment is protected.
the situation was not idyllic before the bombing, but it has deteriorated considerably since the nato intervention in terms of the natural and human environment.
in addition, in order to combat multiethnic violence and create the necessary security environment to prevent non-albanian ethnic kosovars from leaving the province, the european union continues to support the efforts of the unmik to rebuild the kosovo police force.
from this point of view, the fact that it has so far resisted any influence from a wider environment is an extremely positive element and none of us, no state, no policy, no point of view can in any case, in an attempt to solve other problems, encourage the disintegration of this small republic which, it must be stressed, has institutions that it could better structure to become a true democracy.
i hope, i hope and i am now convinced that the european union, by showing maturity and by means of the measures it has begun to take, will gradually establish in the region, in the broad sense, the necessary environment which it itself needs.
how can there be criminal cooperation in an environment like this?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - (el) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, before i elaborate on the positions of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, i would like to share with you three basic elements which, in my view, determine the present and future of european tourism in an international environment.
they must also be aimed at the rational use of natural and cultural resources and tourist infrastructure, thus contributing to the sustainable and balanced development of tourism.
the whole life of women is intimately linked to the gift of life, to the protection of life and the environment, to dialogue, to reconciliation, to understanding different points of view, to settling disputes by peaceful means.
the rapporteur has already addressed the problems of resource management and environmental protection on several occasions.
this commission communication is part of the commission's overall strategy to improve the integration of environmental considerations into other community policies.
the commission's overall strategy is to ensure that fishing activities reach economically and environmentally sustainable levels through the management of scarce fish stocks, in order to avoid their depletion due to overexploitation and/or environmental degradation.
in particular, the communication calls for the reduction of fishing pressure in order to preserve commercial stocks and the marine ecosystem, improved measures for the conservation of the marine environment in integrated coastal zone management, improved training, transparency of information and an increased contribution of scientific research to fisheries management.
thirdly, the european union should commit itself to improving the monitoring and prevention of the significant pollution of community waters which is degrading marine fauna and flora, including fisheries resources.
more controls should be put in place to prevent accidental oil spills like the erika in the bay of biscay, as well as deliberate spills of waste oils.
the pressures that urbanisation of coastal areas places on the fragile marine ecosystem should also be recognised.
today, ladies and gentlemen, we can never be fully informed about the vast ecosystem of the sea or the many factors that influence the stocks of marine aquatic resources.
i understand the concern of the members who speak of the dumping of waste at sea by many irresponsible captains in order not to pay fees, but i would point out that there is another aspect of the matter, namely that the ports of mediterranean member states, such as my country - greece - will face serious problems of competitiveness with the ports of neighbouring non-community countries, since there is obviously nothing to prevent the captains of ships transiting the mediterranean from calling at ports in turkey or north africa in order not to pay the high fees, established on the basis of objective criteria and not on the basis of use, which will be in force in community ports.
i do not think, mr president, that the sudden convergence of systems, apart from the problem of the principle of subsidiarity, will have the desired results, because there are still ways of circumventing the system, with the detrimental effects on the environment.
commission - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question by mrs karamanou concerns the urgent problem of pollution of the danube as much as, in its second part and more generally, the persistent threat to the environment throughout the community.
in this connection, my colleague, mrs wallström, announced, following the cyanide spill in the danube, that the situation in all the applicant countries should now also be examined in the context of the commission's study on the potential environmental threats caused by mining.
in addition, existing community environmental law should be reviewed to determine whether its extension to environmental risks associated with mining should be encouraged.
as regards the general problems raised in the second part of the question, the commission is fully aware of the report presented by the european environment agency.
this report formed the basis for the overall evaluation of the fifth environmental action programme.
the evaluation shows that, as a result of community policy, positive results have recently been achieved in certain areas, such as the fight against acidification, the improvement of water quality and the protection of the ozone layer.
in many cases, this is because the rapid growth of certain economic sectors is undermining efforts to reduce environmental impacts.
the commission intends to focus on the most serious of these problems in its draft sixth environmental action programme.
this applies in particular to more vigorous implementation of community law in the member states and to more effective integration of environmental interests into other policies, so as to be able to decouple the environmental impact from economic growth.
the commission is awaiting the opinion of the european parliament on its overall assessment and will present its proposals for the sixth environmental action programme before the end of the year, revised on the basis of the opinions submitted.
the european parliament certainly appreciates the efforts of the european commission to promote community policy in the field of environmental protection, and above all to integrate the environmental dimension into all policies - mainstreaming.
however, commissioner, since you have mentioned the problem of the pollution of the danube, i would like to ask you a supplementary question: you are certainly not unaware of the accusations made by mrs liliane mara, the romanian minister for the environment, who supports the view that many of us share, namely that the ecological disaster suffered by the danube as a result of nato bombing is much greater than that suffered as a result of the recent cyanide leak.
as we know, the bombing destroyed bridges, oil refineries and chemical industries, which in ecological terms caused enormous damage in all the danube-river regions.
i would like to know your position, commissioner: are you planning to take measures for the economic, ecological and cultural rehabilitation of the affected regions?
the working group agreed to draw up a work plan on the closure of units 1 and 2 by may or june 2000 and to present a policy framework and potential projects in the energy sector to be financed through the aid package.
however, i am somewhat perplexed because, at your hearing before the environment committee of the parliament, and again today, you spoke of stopping the operation of the reactors, which, as we know, are extremely dangerous, as soon as possible.
- (el) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is commendable that efforts are being made to set limit values for pollutants resulting from the incineration of waste and to put in place precise control procedures.
in fact, it is intolerable for pollution to be transferred from the atmosphere to water and soil.
this is especially true of household waste, which, before being incinerated, contains negligible amounts of toxic substances.
thus, applying the same treatment to hazardous and non-hazardous waste only aggravates the problem.
in summary, the legislative proposal under consideration does not solve the problems inherent in incineration as a waste management method.
- (el) mr president, the first report i drew up as a member of parliament dealt with exactly the same subject as the one we are discussing today: the environment and the structural funds.
and i came, of course, to the essential conclusion that actions financed by the structural funds should in no way harm the environment of the member states and that, to this end, greater importance should be given to the environmental dimension at all levels of programming and implementation of the relevant union policies.
this is what i am saying again today, that our main objective must always be sustainable development - development that respects and promotes the environment.
i therefore believe that in this direction the european parliament, in its resolution, should call on the commission to implement the structural funds programmes in a way which takes account of community environmental legislation, particularly as regards the directives on the conservation of natural habitats and wild birds.
and we must also remember, mr president, that the structural funds often make it possible to promote measures to protect the environment.
if we stop all programmes without exception for the reasons that many colleagues in this house have given, we will ultimately do more harm than good to the environment.
- (el) mr president, i believe that ensuring the full and correct implementation of community environmental policy is perhaps the greatest challenge facing the member states today.
but unfortunately, environmental policy requirements are not being respected and are not being integrated, as they should be, into the development and approval of programmes and projects in the member states.
the problem is further aggravated by the fact that, apart from violations of environmental legislation for works and programmes carried out with community funds and approval, fraud also occurs in the course of the implementation of works and programmes which are the subject of private and national funding.
it is inconceivable that the application and compliance by the member states with the european union's environmental legislation should not cover all projects, whether or not they require community or other funding.
therefore, countries which violate environmental legislation must be well aware that the commission, as the guardian of community primary and secondary law, will ensure that the environment is not degraded by the construction of works.
the continued flagrant violation of key environmental legislation is unacceptable.
i therefore urge that we urge the commission to ensure that community environmental legislation is applied effectively and respected for all projects and, if necessary, to refer matters to the european court of justice, as a colleague has said, to recommend large fines and to demonstrate rigour.
we have seen a huge influx of refugees and at the same time we have seen bombings of hospitals and embassies, civilians being targeted, and for many years to come the balkans will pay the price and suffer the painful consequences of the ecological disaster caused by the bombings.
- (el) mr president, it is undeniable that in recent years, along with the increase in immigration, a climate of prejudice has begun to take hold and cases of racial violence have multiplied, while political parties have been created on the basis of a racist ideology.
in other words, a social climate is being created, as was shown this morning in some parts of our parliament, which shows that the protection of human dignity, respect for differences, democratic values and social solidarity have not yet been fully achieved.
- (pt) as everyone knows, mr president, in the context of the energy sanctions against the federal republic of yugoslavia, it was decided, on a proposal which was discussed in the council, to promote certain exceptional measures for the benefit of municipalities represented by democratic forces.
we deeply regret that we have to maintain the energy sanctions regime applied to yugoslavia, but it is part of the package of measures identified as being able to exert a form of pressure on the regime and, especially, a form of pressure on the way in which mr milosevic is running that country.
it is clear that this regulation was adopted to protect the environment and citizens.
then one day it appeared that a little progress was being made, although it was certainly far from being considered satisfactory, but this little progress itself was short-lived because, in recent days, the american side, under article 84 of the chicago convention, brought an action against the european union before the icao because of this regulation, which, as i said, is intended to protect the environment.
our position is as follows: - one, our strategy must be to achieve a global agreement in the sense of much higher standards for aircraft noise; - two, if no agreement is reached, it becomes clear that the european union is obliged to act unilaterally; - three, we consider the us position on withdrawal of the regulation or postponement of its entry into force to an indefinite date totally unacceptable; - four, we welcome the progress made in the aviation environment protection committee towards the phasing out of noisy aircraft in circulation today; - five, we are opposed to a further postponement of the entry into force of the regulation for aircraft of member states, because we consider this to be an internal matter and we do not believe that the americans have the competence to take measures concerning our own aircraft; - sixthly, we are prepared to review regulation 925/99 for aircraft from third countries, but only if, in the meantime, agreement is reached within the icao on new standards.
in any case, we believe that the americans must abandon the action they have brought before the icao under article 84 of the chicago convention, because this action is destroying the climate of cooperation.
but that doesn't mean we're going to neglect the security that has to surround all these innovative applications - public health security and environmental protection.
for this directive, parliament had requested amendments at first reading which met the two objectives mentioned above, namely a useful set of rules for the deliberate liberalisation and trade of genetically modified organisms, accompanied by safety measures for the protection of public health and the environment, and provisions providing for information for the public and consumers.
in conclusion, mr president, i would like to return to a point which i stressed in the committee on the environment and which deserves our special attention: it concerns the question of safety.
prosperity is reserved for big capital, which is faced with a magnificent field of glory, since, in order to satisfy its demand for a "fully functioning internal market" and greater competitiveness vis-à-vis the united states, efforts are being made to fully reflect the pressures of international competition on the labour market, to accelerate the liberalization of the so-called "structural transformations" (privatizations, market liberalization) of vital sectors such as energy, telecommunications, post offices, transport, water supply, etc.
i hope that the very strong support for the lagendijk report in the committee on foreign affairs will be reflected in parliament, thus expressing our unanimous desire for a positive and sustainable development.
not only as greeks but above all as europeans, we can only see it as a serious way of strengthening economic and social cohesion, employment, sustainable development, the struggle for european integration, and naturally i disagree with what mrs schroedter said.
in conclusion, i would like to congratulate and thank mr böge, rapporteur for the committee on agriculture, and mrs roth-behrendt, rapporteur for the committee on the environment, because i really believe that we have a much better regulation, thanks also to the cooperation and assistance of all the other members, and that the text thus revised far surpasses the one which the commission had originally submitted to parliament.
the commission also welcomes the fact that the european council has adopted a new strategy for the fight against poverty, which aims to promote the development of a more inclusive and sustainable society.
how do we know that it is not sustainable in greece and that it is, for example, in so many other countries of the european union?
for greece and the other members of emu, the issue of sustainability is vital.
these are the directions that need to be supported without delay if sustainability is to have a future.
the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, after welcoming the work done by the european commission, makes a number of observations and formulates certain principles.
in its resolution, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy strongly expresses the wish that space be used for peaceful purposes for the benefit of all mankind.
it called on the commission to take, in collaboration with the member states, all the necessary measures to ensure the effective use of space systems to monitor the environment and ensure safety, to protect people's lives and natural resources, to detect at an early stage - and even prevent - natural or man-made disasters, and to help combat fraud.
the progressive and leftist forces in the emu countries must extend their cooperation in order to achieve a radical reform of the way in which emu is built, to assert the priority of social criteria and the fight against unemployment, to encourage truly convergent policies, sustainable and fair development policies.
moreover, the voices that arise in favour of the need to ensure the sustainability of the maintenance of the criteria are aimed precisely at facilitating the hardening of the policy pursued so far and at supporting the particularly anti-popular measures that are on the horizon.
this is often the case in the work environment, as problems arise with regard to the possibility of praying, of granting leave for religious reasons, of having specific food available at the workplace.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
- (el) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we can only point out in the report by the committee on the environment that there is a confusion - we hope it is unintentional - which turns the campaign against tobacco into a campaign against tobacco cultivation.
i shall focus on three points: firstly, we are categorically opposed to amendment no 17 by the committee on the environment, which provides for the gradual reduction of tobacco growing aid.
we also strongly support the reduction of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide levels and the removal of the terms 'light' and 'ultra light', which give smokers the false impression that they are at a lower risk.
this is an important point and i would also like to say that in terms of bilateral relations, the greek and turkish foreign ministers have put forward, on the sidelines of the nato summit in florence, a proposal to include on the agenda of the greek-turkish negotiations, in addition to confidence-building measures in the aegean sea, a package of good-neighbourly measures between greece and turkey, the aim of which will be to consolidate the climate of security and rapprochement between the two countries.
the same resolution stresses the importance of developing regional cooperation, establishing friendly relations between states and the sustainable development of their economies.
in addition, the european union has shown its willingness to use its assistance instruments to create an enabling environment for the resolution of the conflicts in the caucasus.
i would like to recall that the european union is the main partner in rehabilitation projects in south ossetia and is ready to support measures to create a climate of confidence, especially through the reconstruction of the north-south infrastructure linking russia and georgia.
it gives them the confidence that they too have the capacity to act in a fair competitive environment.
after the feira decision, they will continue to bear the cost of 'sustainability', in other words, of our continuing to be part of emu, while the big companies and monopolies will continue to exploit them and increase their profits.
it should of course be noted that aid allocated in the field of the environment continues to be primarily focused on the water issue, while in many cases there is a need for other interventions to conserve, protect and improve the quality of the environment and the rational use of natural resources, in accordance with article 174 of the treaty which refers to afforestation, land rehabilitation, etc.
it is also responsible for making major investments to tackle the serious problem of solid waste treatment and for creating incentives for the uptake of the latest environmentally friendly technologies.
the treatment centres are used by young people who can access them, whether they are helped by their family or by the wider social environment.
in substance, the lisbon council on employment and competition, environmental policies and public health represent a slight shift towards the citizen, but are insufficient in relation to his real needs.
the commitment of the countries of the region to implement reforms and create an environment conducive to sustainable economic progress is at the very heart of the pact.
the congestion of the road infrastructure, which is becoming more and more threatening for transport safety and the environment, makes it essential to strengthen the railway.
this conception does not constitute a guarantee, but, on the contrary, an intolerable threat to the future of society and of man: uncertainty, insecurity, rupture with his own needs, categorization of citizens and workers who will no longer shape their environment, but will be shaped by it, so that they put themselves, in the most efficient, fastest and cheapest way, at the service of those who determine this environment.
it cannot be conceived nor can there be any appeal to good intentions in a climate of abhorrent competition and the absolute sovereignty of profit.
i now turn to the environment committee, for which i have the honour of being rapporteur.
the committee on the environment decided, by a satisfactory majority, to insist on the amendment of the text.
the negotiations for the establishment of this community support framework have strengthened certain aspects of the regional development plan strategy, particularly as regards education, vocational training and environmental protection.
- (el) mr president, despite mr barnier's very precise and very detailed reply and his remark on the shortcomings of the greek public administration, weaknesses which are common to all and which are acknowledged by all, including the government, there is another problem: the decentralized territorial community, which manages these funds and in which the central public administration can hardly intervene, leads to stagnation or waste, or to the use of funds for other purposes.
the commission has not yet received any information on the implementation of the waste management directive, and it is therefore not possible to conclude that the commission has received any information on the implementation of the waste management directive.
the commission has very little information on waste management in greece.
the country did not report on the application of legislation in this area between 1989 and 1997. however, at the end of last year greece replied to four questionnaires concerning four waste directives.
the responses obtained show that 280 000 tonnes of hazardous waste were produced in the country - no year is given - of which 95 760 tonnes were not recycled, while greece indicates that it has no hazardous waste treatment or disposal infrastructure.
it also states that such waste is either stored temporarily or exported abroad for disposal.
as such, it brought proceedings under article 226. the most serious aspects concern the absence of management plans, as required by article 7 of directive 75/442 on waste, article 6 of directive 91/689 on hazardous waste and article 14 of directive 94/62 on packaging and packaging waste; the non-transposition of directive 94/62 and the non-transmission of the information required under article 12 concerning the packaging waste industry; the absence of a programme in accordance with article 6 of directive 91/157 on batteries and accumulators containing dangerous substances; the commission has not yet received any information on the extent of the infringement.
directive 94/67 on the incineration of hazardous waste requires a first report for the period 1998-2000 to be submitted by the end of september 2001.
is there no other way of finding out where this enormous amount of waste has gone?
the commission has already taken action in response to the failure of greece to properly transpose and apply community legislation on waste.
it noted that there was a general problem in greece with the application of community legislation on waste.
of course we would like to know what has happened to this waste, but the only thing we can do is to ask greece to provide us with the relevant statistics.
you have told us in essence that we do not know, that the greek government does not know, that nobody knows what has happened to more than half of the toxic waste.
the problem of toxic waste is particularly serious.
the second question is: given the condemnation of greece in this waste case, the waste management in chania in crete, can you tell us, in general, where the problem lies in the application of environmental legislation in greece?
-the importance of forests for maintaining the basic ecological balances of the ecosystem of life itself is enormous.
the enormous disasters that have hit forests in recent years, together with the weakness of the responses to these disasters, are seriously endangering the ecological balance as well as the health, safety and many of the cultural and social values that are inextricably linked to the forest heritage.
the commission is now proposing to reduce even further the already minimal funds for protecting forests against fires and air pollution.
it is essential, in collaboration with the national and local authorities and the competent bodies, that appropriate initiatives be taken to define an effective forestry policy and to develop immediate and coordinated action which will enable the regeneration and reforestation of devastated forest areas, in accordance with the bioclimatic and ecological conditions of each region and on the basis of current scientific data and methods.
in this way we will contribute to the protection, development, ecological preservation and productive development of the forests of these countries.
- (el) the objective of this report is to justify the liberalisation of the energy sector, mainly electricity but also natural gas.
the report, in an effort to embellish the liberalisation of the energy sector, contains a number of inaccuracies.
energy is not just a consumer product.
the energy sector is particularly important for the economic development of a country and vital for its defence.
therefore, the liberalisation of energy markets not only jeopardises a country's security but also its development.
- (el) mr president, the harmonization of the criminal law of the member states in the fight against serious environmental offences is a key element of the policy of creating a common area of freedom, security and justice; it is also the necessary complement to an effective environmental policy.
however, despite its shortcomings and contradictions, this initiative is positive since it encourages the creation of a legislative framework that will allow the development of joint and concerted actions, through a strengthened europol, aimed above all at combating serious crossborder crime against the environment.
the initiative also contains an agreement including some criminal sanctions, in particular for offences where the environment is sacrificed on the altar of profit.
i fully support this approach, as it is well known that there is a very large disproportion between the penalties for environmental offences and the effects of these offences on society as a whole.
in any case, i agree with the reference to the liability of legal persons because by definition and nature the majority of environmental offences are committed by companies and industries.
in addition, i feel i must stress the need to educate and train the staff responsible for the investigation and prosecution of environmental offences, the importance of preventive measures and the need for all member states to ratify the 1998 council of europe convention, as no state has ratified it so far.
even if the greek minority was not the target of the attack in question, it still contributed to creating a climate of insecurity in the region.
i think we are doing a better job of protecting the environment than we have done so far, and i do not, of course, exclude the possibility that we could do better.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a way that is compatible with the environment.
the essence of the matter is that by adopting the joint project under discussion we will have the directive in force to protect our seas and coasts from pollution caused by ships, while also improving the image of the european union as a model for its environmental policy, as an example for the rest of the world, always with a sense of proportion.
- (el) the european parliament should insist on the three amendments: - on the exclusion of nuclear energy from the earthquake-prone areas of turkey, as regards the production system; - on the protection of cultural identity and the abolition of the death penalty; - on the contribution to the solution of the kurdish problem.
the commission's policy focuses on the various dimensions of the water question in the middle east, the security as well as the economic, environmental and social dimensions.
the commission's policy aims at helping the region to achieve a sustainable management of the scarce water resources in combination with assistance to explore new resources.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has accepted the principle on which this directive is based.
the committee on the environment is of the opinion that the list of products in which the use of azo dyes will be prohibited, which is contained in the annex to the directive, should not be indicative.
- the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the most effective way.
air traffic, which accounts for 15% of air pollution, is just one of many causes and certainly not the biggest.
these measures must address the full range of nuisances, including emissions, noise, poor air traffic management and land-use planning, and take due account of the economic interests of airlines.
therefore, we are also in favour of the eu taking its own measures to reduce pollution in the event that the icao meeting does not produce satisfactory results.
- (el) we believe that there is an urgent need to take targeted and radical measures to protect the environment against the negative effects of the ever-increasing volume of air transport use.
in doing so, it fails to address - as it should - issues that are of immediate priority: the issue of permitted levels of greenhouse gas emissions, the establishment of new and - at least - better models and rules to be applied at local and regional level and promoted at international level.
a number of issues, such as land use planning around airports, improving air traffic, etc., remain largely unanswered, although they are an important element in combating the environmental effects of air transport.
any effort to reduce the number and hours of flights by means of higher ticket prices and continuing attempts to reduce the wage burden and safety standards are conducive to the preservation or even the increase of the profits of the aviation industry; these are not measures to mitigate the negative environmental impact of air transport.
it is typical that no reference is made to the liberalisation of the air transport market, which multiplies the harmful effects on the environment due to the limited number of checks carried out on aircraft, their age, their defective maintenance, etc., all factors which influence not only the environment but also the very safety of flights and passengers.
climate change is occurring at a rapid pace and is having an impact on the entire ecosystem.
the introduction of forest registers will also be very important and will help to protect and restore ecological wealth and combat land speculation.
of course, we're going to have fires in general, and with the climate change we're seeing, unfortunately, we're going to have worse and worse.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in cases where the bus is full, it is preferable, also for environmental reasons, to use larger buses.
the climate of the reports is overwhelmingly positive and, in this respect, any complaining voices should be put aside.
it rightly stresses that improving the situation of the roma, reforms of the judicial system, sanctions against corruption and the re-evaluation of environmental policies will facilitate the promotion of the accession process.
– under the current council directive 92/20 on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms, products containing or consisting of gmos may not be placed on the market unless consent has been given under the provisions of this particular directive.
can it be that those who used their weapons in yugoslavia to murder civilians, to destroy buildings and bridges, to cause irreparable damage to the environment, those who murdered and are murdering children in iraq, are really interested in gun control?
more specifically, it has not been scientifically established that genetically modified grape varieties are completely safe for consumer health and the environment, and the fact that authorisation is granted only after all appropriate risk prevention measures have been taken does not constitute a guarantee.
as research into genetically modified organisms has developed under the control of large multinational companies, which are only interested in increasing their super profits without concern for the protection of health and the environment, fears about the seriousness and honesty of these so-called authorisations and controls are reinforced.
- mr president, first of all we naturally support all the compromise and synthetic amendments which we agreed in the committee on the environment and which i hope will be voted on here.
at best, he will stay close to the environment agency, which does an excellent job of providing information, but he also tells us that the state of the environment in europe is not improving.
- (el) the problem of the increase in the temperature of our planet, resulting from the accumulation in the atmosphere of gases that increase the greenhouse effect, such as carbon dioxide, is taking on catastrophic dimensions.
just three years after the kyoto conference, the european environment agency estimates that if emissions rates within the european union remain the same, not only will we fail to reduce co2 emissions by 8% between 1990 and 2010, but that they will increase by 6%, while in the united states the forecasts are even worse.
this problem is rooted in the sacrifice of everyone and everything, including the quality of the environment and the climate, on the altar of capitalist exploitation of resources and excessive profit.
the commission's statement is misleading, since it does not mention any specific policies or measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but merely presents, as the rapporteur rightly points out, a general chart and list of trivial policies and measures.
it reiterates that energy taxation or the tax on mineral fuels is the european union's basic strategy for reducing greenhouse gases.
we do not agree with this measure because, with the distorted application of the 'polluter pays' principle, the entire cost of reducing emissions will be paid directly by consumers, i.e.
under the considerable pressure created by the problem, one could at best envisage the imposition of an energy tax on mineral fuels, but only as a complementary measure to an integrated policy and measures to reduce co2 emissions, with the necessary condition that the revenue from this tax will only serve to relieve workers.
our firm view is that reductions in carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases will have to be achieved primarily at the cost of the real polluters (i.e.
we also agree with the rapporteur that priority should be given to renewable energy sources and to support for public transport.
we cannot conceive of creating an entire market in which pollution is traded like a commodity and in which some companies buy their excess quantities from others who have exceeded their threshold, instead of reducing their own co2 emissions.
- (el) in general terms, we, the meps of the communist party of greece, agree with the framework of elements to be included in the 6th framework programme for research, because all the initial objectives, such as the constitution of committees, the development of trials, the improvement of the control of endocrine disruptors (eds) in the environment, etc., are moving in the right direction.
however, we would like to draw attention to the determination of a generally acceptable definition of endocrine disruptors, in which, in our opinion, the effects of the emitted radioactivity (accidents, radioactive waste from peaceful or military activities, unimpeded and unconditional access of scientific groups responsible for industrial uses) should be included.
we all know that the environment is particularly difficult for these businesses today, and more specifically, my experience in the publishing and bookselling world does not allow me to be particularly optimistic because i know the great problems, sometimes insurmountable, faced by these businesses precisely because of their small size.
the acquisitions we have seen in recent years take enormous proportions in many industries are literally reaping the benefits of these efforts, interrupting their creative process and sterilizing the environment from the competitiveness of creation, in order to leave only conventional products that conform to stereotypes on the market.
the events may have created a climate of euphoria in the leading circles of imperialism, but they themselves know well that they have not subdued the spirit of resistance of the yugoslav and other peoples.
and a european union which, from what i have read in the newspapers, has recently changed its strategy for its energy problems and is more oriented towards the former soviet union - with all that this means for the wider region - clearly cannot remain passive to developments.
- the council is aware of the growing importance of the european union's overall energy dependence and reminds the honourable member of its conclusions of may 2000. in this context, the council gives the highest priority to the continuation of its work in the following areas: promotion of renewable energy sources, energy efficiency, security of energy supply and diversification of energy sources.
as regards renewable energy, a proposal on the promotion of electricity from renewable sources is currently being considered by the relevant council bodies with a view to reaching agreement at the next council meeting in december, provided that the european parliament has delivered its opinion in due time.
as regards energy efficiency, the commission presented an action plan at the council meeting in may.
in addition, the commission, in its communication of 4 october 2000 on the supply of oil to the european union, indicated that it intended to present to the gothenburg european council a plan for energy saving and diversification of energy sources which should contribute to improving energy efficiency, particularly in buildings and transport.
as regards the security of energy supply, the commission intends to present, in the course of november 2000, a green paper on the future and the place of the various sources of energy in the context of a better security of energy supply in the european union.
this communication will cover both nuclear energy and renewable energy.
you have presented them and i thank you for that, but it was also to see if you could give any information or estimates that the council could move, perhaps, towards enhanced cooperation, towards a kind of communitization of energy policy, given that, as we have seen recently during the recent crisis, the member countries are moving in dispersed ranks and competing with each other, both for supplies and for prices, and that the result is rather poor for the whole of europe.
the objective of the european union with regard to cuba, as set out in the common position on cuba adopted by the council on 2 december 1996, is to encourage a process of peaceful transition towards democratic pluralism, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and a sustainable raising and improvement of the living standards of the cuban people.
– first of all, directive 96/61 on integrated pollution prevention and control.
the ozone thresholds pursuant to directive 92/72 were not exceeded in the city of athens, but it should be noted that no measurements were made in mid-summer.
other monitoring data show ozone thresholds frequently being exceeded outside the athens agglomeration.
- mr president, the increase in the share of electricity produced from renewable sources is in principle a positive thing.
this means that the workers will, in addition to the costs, also pay the entrepreneurs' profit, which would not have happened if the energy production and distribution sector had, as the communist party of greece insists, been public and had not been forcibly privatized at the behest of big capital.
my belief is that if women, palestinian and israeli, had a say and a role in the peace process, in all likelihood a just and sustainable solution to the palestinian issue would have been found and we would not be facing the current crisis, which is the consequence of seven whole years of failed negotiations.
we are protecting the environment, we are ensuring safety of navigation, but on the other hand we are not undermining the competitiveness of shipping and the smooth supply of the market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the safety of ships, and therefore the safety of people and the protection of the environment, is a very serious matter.
- (el) behind the accidents at sea, the marine ecological disasters, the unacceptable conditions of hygiene and safety on board ships, the over-exploitation of crews, lies the criminal immunity enjoyed by the large shipowners and the policies that serve them at national, regional and international levels.
a genuine policy to protect the safety of ships, human life at sea and the environment must first of all tackle the impunity enjoyed by shipowners, apply strict measures and sanction infringements, set the number of persons on board ships in line with the increased needs of the latter, contribute to improving the living and working conditions of crews and ensure the effective involvement of the trade union movement in decision-making concerning the merchant marine, in particular in the field of safety.
- (el) the safety of ships, the protection of life at sea and the environment require first of all that the impunity enjoyed by shipowners be tackled, that very strict measures be taken to control the state of the ship and that severe sanctions be imposed on shipping companies that violate safety rules, that the conditions of seafarers be improved, that they be given appropriate training and that the number of seafarers on board be guaranteed to meet the increased needs of ships.
the introduction of double hulls for ships can contribute to safety and environmental protection, but it is not a panacea and cannot in itself guarantee navigability.
we believe that the proposal to raise the capacity ceiling for vessels which are exempted from the provisions of the commission regulation for vessels of less than the marpol ceiling from 600 to 3 000 tonnes will increase the number of vessels which pose risks to safety and environmental protection.
commission - madam president, i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr liese, for the excellent report he has presented, and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection for the work they have done.
- madam president, first of all i should like to point out that the programmes whose extension is being requested, four programmes for a two-year training course and two programmes for a one-year training course, are directly related to the programme currently being discussed in the committee on the environment, which is the new health programme.
it was therefore reasonable to ask for the extension of previous programmes, which were of course important programmes for cancer, for aids, for diseases such as pollution diseases, or even for the monitoring of infectious diseases, and in general programmes which are of great importance for public health.
what was agreed with the council and the commission and, of course, with the environment committee of parliament, in order to avoid a second reading and to be able to continue these programmes without any disruption so that there is no gap, was to extend the four programmes by two years, as the commission had requested, but to give the money annually, so that if in the interim the new health programme is approved and put into effect, then of course the extension will not be necessary and the money will be used for the second year.
i would like to thank my colleagues in the other parties, and of course my colleagues in the committee on the environment, because we really had this remarkable convergence of views and we were able to move quickly so that there was no gap in public health.
the member states and the commission also meet regularly to exchange information on experience gained in preventing risks from the release of gmos into the environment.
the council will examine the commission's proposals at the environment council on 18 and 19 december.
in particular, cultural content is in danger of being in a completely new environment where the old one has been literally destroyed.