the leader programme, at its core, offers an opportunity for public, private and voluntary groups to pool their common talents in order to create long-term and sustainable jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas.
our country has been plagued by human suffering with flooded homes and farms, the absence of sanitation, the lack of clean drinking water and the ecological disasters caused by water contamination by escherichia coli.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment against pollution, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of chemicals, and the protection of the environment.
however, we can continue to monitor and provide the assistance we can, and we can do so through this regional and environmental reconstruction plan.
monitoring is important and gives member states, as well as the un and the commission, something to think about when it comes to military secrets and their effects on the environment.
what we have found is that war affects the environment in the long term and is dangerous.
in the environmental field, we have just adopted a directive on marine pollution.
responsibility for environmental management, food safety, external trade, the internal market and many other responsibilities that we have given to the commission without providing it with the resources to do so.
in response to this demand, and to the changes in the legal and budgetary environment brought about by the new regulations, the commission has planned to adopt a communication before easter to present several proposals to streamline and improve its action in the field of observation and assistance to electoral processes.
let me say first of all, on enlargement, that we very sincerely welcome the change in what i would call the general climate and political ambitions surrounding the enlargement debate.
the activities of the altener programme will promote renewable energy sources and i believe that the development of such programmes deserves financial support because they offer enormous commercial potential for the future.
the internationally agreed targets for reducing emissions cannot be achieved by these programmes alone.
in this connection, it should be recalled that energy policy remains a matter for national competence.
it is imperative that national governments fully support the improvement of energy efficiency and the development of renewable energy.
i am pleased that ireland has recently announced that it will allocate £125 million to the development of an environmentally sustainable energy sector.
i support all efforts to close the gap in economic development and infrastructure provision, including in the energy sector.
in short, we have a major challenge: we must meet our commitments to limit greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector in accordance with the kyoto protocol, while encouraging the growth of our economies.
commission - (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my satisfaction at the agreement reached on the altener ii programme in the conciliation committee and to join the various speakers and, of course, to point out that thanks to this agreement, the altener programme will soon be integrated into the framework programme for the energy sector.
all this will improve the coordination, transparency and efficiency of our energy programmes, which will also need to be integrated into the save programme, which we will be discussing shortly.
compromise wordings were agreed on 5 other amendments, including legislative and non-legislative measures, and the inclusion of local energy centres, and very importantly energy audit systems in the review of progress on energy efficiency.
energy savings are mainly financed by the member states.
it would be unfortunate if our community achievements were more symbolic than real, because there is enthusiasm at local level for action, including community action, to promote energy savings.
save is the only community-wide programme to promote the rational use of energy.
it focuses on non-technical elements, helping to build energy-efficient infrastructure; the objective of this programme is to create an environment conducive to investment and energy efficiency.
we must also realise that there is a niche in industry for energy savings.
we have heard a lot about the competition problems with renewable energy, but energy efficiency is a financial saving at the corporate level, it is a financial saving everywhere in fact, and so it should not be a problem.
i have to say that, as with motherhood, although we offer our support, we sometimes do very little substantially and concretely to help mothers or people involved in energy savings.
we could do much more given the major commitments we have made to reduce co2 and greenhouse gases and to reduce dependence on energy imports.
we are not connecting so that citizens can actually do something tangible, whether it's at home or in the office or in industry, to support action to fight global climate change.
- mr president, i am very pleased that the protection of the environment is now a priority for this parliament, as it is for the citizens of europe.
there is no doubt that abandoned cars pose a serious threat to the visual and physical environment.
every year, between 8 and 9 million vehicles are scrapped in the european union, which in itself generates a huge amount of waste.
from an irish point of view, i know that the irish ministry of the environment is already consulting with representatives of the motor industry to ensure that appropriate collection centres are set up in ireland in the near future to treat end-of-life vehicles.
i believe that eu consumers will support the car manufacturers that incorporate the most environmental practices in the coming years.
the last point i would like to make is that regulations and legislation must take account of the particular situation of the historic car sector in the european community as a whole in terms of its social role and environmental and economic considerations.
but for the internal market to function effectively and for the single european currency to be a success, it is important that all of europe's more than 100 regions are able to compete economically in this challenging environment.
the commissioner is well aware that agriculture alone will not be enough to ensure the sustainability of rural communities.
in agenda 2000, i believe we have given priority to policies that directly affect citizens: food security, water quality, environmental protection and rural development.
however, i should now like to examine the areas of disagreement between the environment committee of our parliament and the council.
the council believes that the objective of satisfactory surface water status should be achieved within 16 years of the entry into force of this directive, whereas the parliament's committee on the environment would like to see this time limit reduced to 10 years.
a detailed study of the environmental consequences had been carried out.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
- mr president, by consolidating existing directives, this framework directive establishes the basic principles for a sustainable water policy in the european union.
of course, we have to pay for waste and expensive domestic use and the cost recovery can be balanced accordingly.
the aim of this directive is to promote sustainable water use within the eu.
this would make it possible to apply subsidiarity to a cost policy on water pricing, with each member state drawing up its own plan, provided that the principles of this directive relating to incentives for sustainable and efficient water use are fully protected.
- if the court of auditors were to receive additional resources, this would be a wise expenditure as it would ensure that eu funding would not benefit from something that would be in contradiction with environmental concerns.
it would be very important for the court of auditors to be able to assess on a regular basis potential conflicts between environmental concerns and structural development, because the court of auditors could do remarkable work.
at a more central level, there is a need to improve coordination between state donors, international and local ngos and private sector initiatives, so as not to waste scarce resources.
in addition, they will help to ensure a more sustainable fisheries, which will continue to provide jobs in regions of the union where there is no alternative source of jobs.
this is also a matter of environmental protection.
it was decided that the cprs should present a study during the 1998 session, highlighting various possible scenarios for stock regeneration, at levels which can produce maximum sustainable yield, taking into account the various variations in possible levels of recruitment and stock mixing.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
- the committee on the environment generally welcomes the commission's communication and also welcomes the fact that the committee on fisheries has adopted all our amendments.
it is now widely accepted that the effects of fishing on the marine environment go far beyond the simple capture of target species, accompanied by a few by-catches.
we welcome the commission's intention to integrate environmental protection into other eu policies, including the common fisheries policy.
after all, the treaties have provided since 1992 that the precautionary principle and environmental protection must be integrated into community policies.
the best policies and regulations in the world will not be enough to ensure the conservation of the marine environment without an effective system to ensure that they are respected.
it is by having a job-creating economy and sustainable social assistance models that we can best combat unemployment and promote social cohesion in europe.
as the convention states, 'the family as the fundamental group of society and the natural environment for the growth and well-being of its members, especially children, should be afforded the necessary protection and assistance to fulfil its full responsibility within the community'.
- mr president, waste treatment is now a central element in the development of the highest standards of environmental protection.
unfortunately, our consumer society is contributing to the increase in household waste and industrial waste is a growing concern.
fortunately, people are now aware of the importance of protecting the natural environment and i believe that the economic and social climate is conducive to achieving this objective.
in previous debates i have mentioned the need to reduce waste: in this respect, food and consumer goods producers have an important role to play, particularly with regard to packaging in its various forms and the importance of using products compatible with recycling, which is of course my preferred option.
we are all aware of the need to reduce the amount of waste that is currently being disposed of in landfills and every effort must be made to find solutions that are more environmentally friendly.
however, we must not only reduce the volume of waste going to landfill, but also be more selective about the materials that are disposed of.
while incineration is getting very bad press - and recent scheduling decisions in ireland have certainly raised the crucial question of the location of incinerators - it is difficult to envisage a complete waste disposal programme without incineration, particularly with regard to toxic waste, and in this respect consideration should be given to finding locations where the installations will not have a negative impact on the environment.
however, incineration should be considered as a last resort and - as noted earlier - waste reduction, reuse and recycling are the main measures we should strive to implement.
i simply wonder about mr bowe's statements about the need to reduce, reuse and recycle waste.
the only thing that incineration does, as mrs evans said, is encourage the need for more waste.
it will not be economically viable if we do not have enough waste to continue operating the incinerators.
we also have to remember that waste does not disappear.
in ireland, despite what my colleague mr hyland has said, we have a disastrous record in waste management.
he says: "we turn waste into energy - isn't that wonderful?"
it is crucial that we do our job properly and that we look first and foremost at waste management.
we must first look at the root causes of waste.
it was only in december last year that i raised the issue in the irish senate and mentioned the various directives - mainly environmental directives - that we had not transposed on time or had transposed years after the transposition deadline had been set.
- mr blokland rightly expresses serious concerns about waste disposal, including incineration.
i come from a country where 90% of waste is buried, and i come to the conclusion that well-managed incineration is both necessary and unavoidable.
the irish government's commitment to recycling and careful separation of waste is far from clear.
separation of waste, including the use of organic waste for compost, should be a priority in any waste management strategy.
- in recent years, the european union has been at the forefront of devising new waste management strategies.
in fact, the directive we are discussing today aims to mitigate the negative effects of waste incineration on the environment and human health by significantly reducing the levels of emissions of several major air pollutants.
this directive also seeks to monitor the discharge of waste into our water systems.
i take note of one of the european council recommendations: any non-hazardous waste incineration company intending to incinerate hazardous waste must apply for an integrated pollution prevention and control permit.
it is very important that the european union plays a very active role in the development of new waste management proposals.
the eu generates 2 billion tonnes of waste every year, or more than 1 kg per person per day.
on the issue of waste management, the european union agrees on one point: the future of waste disposal is not in the hands of the local authorities of the country seeking new landfills within its borders.
the environmental consequences of landfilling are a growing concern.
the only viable solution is to abandon landfills altogether in favour of more integrated waste management programmes.
the european union fully supports the strict, ambitious but achievable targets set by the irish government for recycling and recovery of waste.
the targets for the next 15 years are as follows: - 50% of all household waste currently sent to landfills is diverted from its intended destination; - a minimum of 65% reduction in biodegradable waste currently sent to landfills; - the installation of waste recovery infrastructure, using environmentally friendly technologies capable of treating up to 300 000 tonnes of biodegradable waste per year.
all these measures reflect the changing public opinion on the issue of waste management.
because of the economic sanctions imposed by the united nations, the iraqi people have no means left to rebuild the infrastructure, leaving the ground free for infectious diseases caused by water and air pollution.
this is particularly true in peripheral countries such as ireland, greece, spain and portugal, where communities facing extinction have been helped and sustained, if not permanently, at least certainly until a change in the economic environment occurs, until new technologies arrive.
given that we will gradually but inevitably reduce aid during the enlargement process and, at the same time, keep up the pressure to protect the environment and consumers, there will be friction between producers and the european administration.
in whose interest has this legislation departed from the established procedures and practice of using objective performance criteria for environmental standards?
we now have legislation that threatens to provoke a new transatlantic trade war - but that is another story - that does not respect best practice with performance criteria and, surprisingly, excludes aircraft using a modern us-made engine while still allowing the use of the rolls royce engine which, conveniently, has a dilution ratio of 3.1. yes, mr president, noise pollution affects 20% of our population, and 0.01% comes from aircraft.
the strictest possible criteria for reducing noise and emissions from aircraft engines can, however, only be achieved by using performance criteria rather than design criteria, which are too fast-tracked and commercially sponsored by anti-competitive legislation.
environmental legislation based on design criteria is unprecedented, ladies and gentlemen, and rightly so.
it should first and foremost serve the important environmental objectives it claims to achieve.
- mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his hard work and in particular on the excellent definition of renewable energy.
the directive, as some speakers have already stated, must have binding targets for member states and the eu as a whole to significantly increase the share of renewable energy in the overall energy market.
the directive should also include mechanisms to discourage member states, as we have heard before, from granting market-distorting subsidies to traditional forms of energy, in particular fossil and nuclear fuels.
the argument that support for renewable energy is a market distortion, in the context of the huge subsidies for nuclear and fossil fuels in the european union, is completely false.
the directive should explicitly propose a system of support and benefits for small and medium-sized enterprises in the decentralised production and distribution of renewable energy.
the directive should propose - and this is extremely important - mechanisms for internalising the external costs of traditional energy production.
in conclusion, i would like to stress that it is important that certain actions taken by member states to include renewable energy in the energy mix of the electricity sector are at least equivalent to the overall eu commitment in the white paper on renewable energy, as adopted by the council and parliament.
in this respect, we can clearly see from empirical studies that grid access is by far the best way to achieve high renewable energy percentages rather than the other methods applied in these countries.
- mr president, i think everyone agrees that the development of renewable energy sources is a step in the right direction.
in my own country, ireland, a total of €125 million has been spent on developing an environmentally sustainable energy sector.
i am glad that the rapporteur identifies the link between renewable energy sources and wider policy considerations.
while it is desirable to harmonise the rules of the game, it may also be necessary to grant subsidies to certain types of energy in order to promote other objectives.
the development of renewable energy is clearly linked to environmental objectives, as well as to employment, regional development and the promotion of local initiatives.
the report states that aid for renewable energy projects should not be considered as direct aid under the state aid regulation.
it is important that member states are allowed to continue to grant subsidies to renewable energy sources that are not yet economically viable.
beyond the obvious environmental and other benefits, this may in fact be justified in terms of competition.
we still have a major challenge: meeting our commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector, in line with the kyoto protocol, while promoting growth within our economies.
while member states must work towards a 12% share for renewable energy, i believe that the imposition of a single binding target would not be useful, due to the significant differences between the energy market structures of the member states.
the peat power stations are working very well in my country and are an important contribution to the energy supply of ireland.
the report also calls for the introduction of a european energy tax.
a patent for these techniques was granted in the uk in august 1995. while accepting the argument that good faith cloning experiments can contribute to scientific progress that could alleviate human suffering, i must point out that in regard to the totally unacceptable use of human embryos at the embryonic cell stage, cultures "outside their natural environment", there is a loophole.
while it is important to put things in their place and to build trust in people, it does not help them to have trust if the extent of fraud and waste is exaggerated.
- mr president, i should like to say that i would prefer that we refrain from disseminating gmos into the environment outright.
in the end, the gmo industry has nothing to offer consumers or the environment, even in the area of chemical use.
in the short time available to us, i call on the commission, and on parliament, to provide urgently the conclusions that will help to allay public fears about the health, environmental and ethical aspects of a technology which can make a considerable contribution to food production and public health.
it is time to hold those who are engaged in the deliberate dissemination of genetically modified organisms legally responsible for the damage caused to human health and the environment.
it should be noted, however, that this argument has been known to us since the discussions on directive 90/220/eec began in 1989. at that time the commission promised that civil liability for environmental damage caused by gmos would be covered by horizontal legislation, but we have been waiting for more than ten years for this promise to be fulfilled.
the common position states that antibiotic resistance marker genes would only be "gradually eliminated" in the future and only if "they are likely to have adverse effects on human health and the environment".
the committee on the environment has adopted two contradictory amendments: the first in favour of a total exemption and the second reinforcing the line of the common position consisting of a conditional exemption with all the usual provisions on environmental risks.
it is unacceptable that industry should be allowed to be exempted unless the provisions on environmental risks apply.
it is important to give particular emphasis to the promotion of sustainable links with these disadvantaged regions if we want them to share equally in the benefits of a single market.
due to the availability of employment outside the agricultural sector and the progress made by the eu and the member states in tackling unemployment, the sustainability of traditional european family farms is now seriously threatened.
let us look for a new method to better plan the long-term survival of farmers, who are responsible for food security, a method that takes into account the unique role farmers play in environmental management.
containers of highly radioactive waste in particular pose a serious and permanent threat to the east coast of ireland because of the risk of large amounts of radiation being released if the cooling tanks overheat.
the nuclear inspection report stressed that the growth in the quantity of highly radioactive liquid waste is too rapid for bnfl to cope with.
the thorp plant is constantly increasing its waste production.
the reprocessing process by its nature produces large quantities of liquid waste.
for over 40 years, highly radioactive liquid waste has been stored in containers at sellafield under constant cooling.
it is now urgent to end reprocessing and to convert containers of highly radioactive waste to passive containment, for example via vitrification.
the problem with the bnfl plant is that it is not able to cope with the rapid growth in the quantity of highly radioactive liquid waste produced by reprocessing.
the nuclear inspection agency would like to see a reduction in the amount of highly radioactive liquid waste stored to reduce the potential danger.
in a report published last september, lloyd's quality assurance stated that bnfl's management was of high quality in terms of health, safety and the environment.
the chief inspector stressed that containers of highly radioactive waste and the high risks resulting from bnfl's failure to make them passively safe through vitrification were an urgent problem.
we have to wait for years, despite the serious threat to the health and the environment of the people of the british isles and europe in general.
i never forget, when i look around, that all the light bulbs in this house are probably lit by nuclear energy, which is why many of the major nuclear powers in europe are reluctant to respond seriously to irish concerns.
we know that the germans and the japanese send their nuclear waste to sellafield for reprocessing because it is politically too embarrassing for them to do so in their own country because of the concerns that this raises.
it is time to realise that the cost of treating waste from these nuclear installations must be counted as an intrinsic part of the cost.
there are no uniform standards for safety and discharges, no clear community provisions for the storage and transport of nuclear fuel or waste, and no adequate community information and control system in case of malfunction.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not in line with the objectives of the treaty.
the sellafield reality goes beyond the contribution to the kyoto objectives concerning the dependence of the uk economy on nuclear energy.
the skills and experience of the staff and the major investment could and should be redirected towards waste management and the creation of a centre of excellence for dismantling and i suggest that the debate focuses on this idea.
gradual improvement of the regulations will contribute, in the long term, to the good health of the marine environment for future generations.
i support most of the key amendments adopted last month by the committee on the environment calling for warnings on cigarette packs to be larger than those proposed by the commission.
the environment committee also asked that the warnings be printed in black on a white background to give them more impact.
- mr president, marine pollution, both accidental and intentional, is a major threat to the marine environment in western europe.
this region is one of the most industrialized areas in the world, where chemicals, radioactive substances and hydrocarbons are daily dumped into the marine environment and transported by cargo ships.
there are several tragic examples of accidental pollution by oil tankers and other ships carrying other types of dangerous cargo.
the recent example of the erika shows what can happen from an environmental, human and economic point of view.
as regards discharges into the sea, in 1983 sellafield discharged highly radioactive waste into the marine environment.
historically, the marine environment is used as the ultimate dumping ground for most of our industrial waste.
although industrial and radioactive waste continues to emanate from various sources, the practice of direct dumping, with little regard for the future, is now widely considered unacceptable.
this report recognises the need for cooperation in the field of accidental marine pollution.
in addition, the definition of accidental marine pollution should be broadened to include radioactive, historical and operational substances and other harmful substances.
although more attention is being paid, and rightly so, the impact of accidents in terms of chronic pollution, operational discharges and spills of oil, radioactive materials and other harmful substances is a cause for great concern because they go largely unnoticed.
from an environmental point of view, the question of whether a substance is released accidentally or intentionally is irrelevant.
the transboundary nature of the marine environment, which means that pollution in one area can have an impact on a wider region, means that a community framework for cooperation on accidental marine pollution is needed.
sharing of information related to oil, radioactive substances and other harmful substances transported by sea, discharged into the sea or discharged under historical discharge systems is a prerequisite for facilitating the preparation and coordination of any response necessary to mitigate the impact of pollution incidents on the environment and human health.
it is too late to try to get information after a serious pollution problem has occurred.
knowledge of this type of potential pollution and its extent is also a prerequisite for being properly prepared, in the appropriate places, from the technological point of view, with personnel and equipment.
the risks to the public and the environment must also be clearly identified and the justified public concerns mitigated through a precise risk assessment.
finally, once the marine environment has been contaminated or polluted, it is impossible to completely clean up and repair the damage.
however, a rapid, effective and adequate response, coordinated across national borders, is needed to mitigate the impact on the environment and public health in the event of pollution.
however, and this is regrettable, it was a disaster to add to the list of disasters for the marine environment, such as that of the braer off the shetland islands and the sea empress off wales.
an additional difficulty in combating marine pollution is that, due to the nature of the sea, it can quickly reach the coast of a large number of member states at once.
the ability to respond quickly, with sufficient resources, is an essential element of any strategy that must be put in place from the beginning of a disaster to minimise environmental damage.
the most effective way to achieve this is to establish a european coastguard service which, in addition to being responsible for pollution control, could also be responsible for surveillance on the high seas, enforcing the common fisheries policy and also assisting in rescues at sea.
the main objective of the ospar convention is to bring marine pollution back to near-zero levels and historical levels by the year 2020. from the irish point of view, we know that marine pollution in the irish sea has been increasing in recent years and this is a direct consequence of the authorization granted in december 1993 to the thorp nuclear waste reprocessing plant.
for years the british government has tried to get rid of many irish politicians and environmental groups by reassuring them about the sellafield and thorp nuclear plants.
this will play a key role in reducing marine pollution in the irish sea.
we must emphasize that the accumulation of hazardous waste is one of the first items on the ospar agenda.
dangerous substances are extremely toxic, and pollution persists and increases in rivers, lakes and seas.
this report can be used by ospar as a platform for discussion on hazardous waste of all types.
the irish government must demonstrate its commitment to the protection of irish citizens and their marine environment.
the uk environment minister, mr michael meacher, has made it clear that bnfl is unable to explain the high levels of tc-99.
the results of studies on vegetable crops near sellafield, where algae are used as fertiliser, have been published in the scottish environmental protection agency report 'radioactivity in food and the environment in 1997'.
- madam president, the question of nuclear waste management is a very important one.
we can, however, agree on the urgent need to dismantle and safely manage nuclear waste.
nuclear energy is unsustainable and should not be supported as it is always in the euratom treaty; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the nuclear safety directive.
we can only accept them for the year 2000 and then wait for a more correct budgetary solution in 2001. it is important to emphasize that no solution has been found for nuclear waste.
only certain member states generate nuclear waste and it is these member states which should therefore pay for the management of this waste.
the european parliament will thus be able to play an appropriate role in the sound and safe management of our terrible nuclear waste legacy, as mr vidal-quadras roca has pointed out.
in the absence of appropriate safety guarantees, the relevance of the nuclear industry in a changing global economy and environment is likely to remain a controversial topic.
as far as european policy and its relevance to the member states is concerned, i think we should allow a period of reflection before we increase our dependence on nuclear energy.
we live in an era of growing awareness of the environment and public health.
the impact of sellafield on public health and the environment is now well established.
as you know, the ospar commission met in sintra two years ago and made some progress on pollution of the marine environment.
my question is more specifically about radioactive emissions.
france has exerted very strong pressure and is one of the signatory states of the agreement on the reduction of radioactive emissions.
however, a recent greenpeace study revealed the presence of high levels of radioactive emissions in the cape hague area.
on the one hand, the authorities claim to control marine radioactive pollution, but on the other hand, we have evidence that radioactive pollution exists.
it is important that the 15 member states seek to establish a conciliatory political climate in order to allow the necessary progress to be made in the coming months.
given that this sector represents about 48% of the total budget - €38 or €39 billion - spread over fifteen countries, it is a feat that the budget in this area does not exceed the margin of error of 2.5% and that the waste and the risk of loss are below the average for the whole budget.
- mr president, the european life programme is a key initiative of the european union to integrate environmental measures into the general framework of community policies.
the european union, as a political entity, has a moral and legal obligation under article 130 of the maastricht treaty to ensure the protection and promotion of a clean environment.
i am particularly pleased that the european life programme has helped to promote the use of clean technologies and has helped to finance many waste recycling projects.
as far as ireland is concerned, over 90% of our waste is still treated by landfilling.
i therefore welcome the initiatives taken by the irish government, in particular those to divert 50% of all household waste to landfills, to reduce the volume of biodegradable waste destined for landfill by 65%, to build more waste recovery infrastructure and to reduce methane emissions by up to 80%.
- mr president, monopolies are unacceptable, whether public or otherwise, and we must remain very vigilant because the single market risks creating new private monopolies in the energy sector.
i am thinking of the concerns about social and environmental problems which this parliament has always taken into account but which are not sufficiently addressed in the energy sector in the context of the single market.
it is particularly regrettable that liberalisation has had a negative impact on energy savings.
we all talk about this problem a lot, but in practice we are going backwards, we are going backwards in terms of energy savings.
i support the proposals for renewable energy access to the grid.
subsidies to traditional forms of energy have been considerable and are partly responsible for the limited progress made in renewable energy.
if we support access to the grid for renewable energy in europe, we should not be in this situation.
liberalisation should apply to all energy sectors, particularly the nuclear sector which receives considerable subsidies from the states.
- mr president, this debate reaffirms the commitment of parliament to public health and environmental problems and i take this opportunity to speak briefly.
yesterday the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection voted 37 to 13 in favour of the five amendments we are discussing today - a clear and unequivocal vote by members from all groups.
as regards the public consultation in the context of the environmental impact assessment of this project, the commission prefers not to anticipate the conclusions of the investigation it is conducting into the complaints it has received.
if we are to genuinely encourage companies to improve their environmental policy and their environmental protection efficiency, we need to stimulate the use of the best available technologies.
this is a voluntary initiative, but if companies really want to improve their environmental policy and performance, we must promote any kind of incentive to do so.
the two most important issues arising within the committee on petitions are the recognition of qualifications for people to work in other member states and the environmental impact of the development of construction.
in particular, citizens are concerned that environmental impact assessments, which are required under eu legislation, are treated as if they were no more valuable than the paper on which they are written.
the eu's environmental management and audit system, known as emas, has given eu companies the opportunity to be certified as implementing good environmental practice in their activities.
today we are discussing the revision of the original 1993 regulation which established the community environmental management and audit system.
each national standardisation authority shall carry out a detailed and comprehensive analysis of all activities of a potential emas candidate that may affect the environment.
overall, only large industrial companies have so far sought recognition under the community environmental management and audit system.
we must remember that emas is the european version of the iso standard known as iso 14001. the iso standard is essentially the equivalent of iso 9000 for european companies, but with the appropriate environmental perspective.
the correct policy of the european union is to ensure that all european companies respect the environment and ensure that they have the necessary practices in place to ensure that their activities do not have a negative impact on the environment in any form.
however strict the regulations, there needs to be more flexibility in the system to ensure that all sectors and all companies in the european union have a chance of being accredited under the community environmental management and audit scheme.
-the main objective of this recommendation is to enhance compliance with and contribute to a more consistent implementation and application of community environmental legislation in the member states.
this draft recommendation sets out the minimum criteria to be applied to the organisation, implementation, monitoring and publication of the results of environmental inspections.
it provides for environmental inspections of all industrial and other enterprises whose emissions and discharges into the environment are subject to special authorization or licensing.
this is certainly the case for all airlines that receive pollution control licences under the auspices of environmental protection agencies.
according to the text of this recommendation, environmental inspections will include: site visits, verification of internal control operations carried out by the operators of the controlled installations, inspection of infrastructure, equipment and proper environmental management on the ground, as well as records kept by the operators.
member states will be required to draw up plans for environmental inspection activities covering their entire territory and facilities located therein.
according to this draft recommendation, each plan should define the geographical area it covers, cover a defined time period, include specific provisions for its revision, identify the specific sites or types of installations concerned, establish the schedules of regular environmental inspections, provide for and outline the procedures related to spot environmental inspections and provide for coordination between the different inspection authorities.
as a member of the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, i support the need for member states to establish harmonised environmental inspections.
we must not forget that in environmental matters the european parliament has the co-decision power which derives from the application of the provisions of the treaty of amsterdam.
the european union also has competence in environmental matters in accordance with article 130 of the maastricht treaty.
these are truly criminal enterprises that, through negligence or deliberate action, destroy the environment, affect human health, wildlife, and plants and cause long-term damage in many different ways, all in the name of profit.
governments should provide more information and make the public aware of the extent and impact of these environmental crimes, because many sections of our society are unaware of them.
with regard to water, soil, health, flora, fauna and, of course, the climate, it is extremely important that the appropriate information is available.
i do not have to go beyond the borders of my own country to see that in many cases local authorities and other levels of government are themselves responsible for environmental damage.
it seems that profit is put before the interests of the people and the environment.
this situation should not last and the authorities who fail to enforce the law should themselves be held responsible for the resulting environmental damage.
i would also like to point out that there are companies, such as british nuclear fuels, which have absolutely no sense of public responsibility and no environmental awareness either.
for a very long time they have been the source of pollution along our coasts, polluting the irish sea and endangering the people of ireland and the west coast of the united kingdom.
such situations can no longer be tolerated in a world where we should be fully aware of the environmental problems for which we are responsible.
at the international level, we have seen many environmental disasters in the past.
cutting costs and rounding corners has created the biggest ecological disaster in history.
negligent practices in many fishing activities should be taken into account, as this is also an ecological crime with long-term consequences.
it is high time that we all took responsibility, because we must not only think of ourselves and our environment, but also of future generations.
the only way to achieve this is to ensure that environmental degradation is considered one of the most serious crimes of our society.
i certainly acknowledge that the most serious environmental disasters are the result of irresponsibility or the actions of those who have profit as their sole motivation, without regard for the consequences.
we know all too well that ecological disasters do not respect international boundaries.
in recent times we have seen the problems caused by the pollution of the danube by cyanide from romanian mines, the rupture of the erika reservoir along the atlantic coast of france and, in ireland, the persistent problems caused by sellafield.
they will continue to inflict damage on the environment as long as the reward far outweighs the punishment.
their attitude is based on the simple belief that ensuring restrictive environmental protection is detrimental to their economic activities or significantly increases their overheads.
the penalisation of environmental damage will send a clear warning to those responsible.
mr president, i welcome the opportunity to make a brief contribution to this debate and in so doing acknowledge the positive role of parliament in setting the agenda for the highest standards of environmental protection.
there is of course a cost factor in environmental management, but equally an economic return, which not easily quantified but exists none the less.
the proposed directive, which requires an environmental assessment before the adoption of a regional or county plan, makes good environmental and economic sense.
far too often in the past we have seen costly development plans collapse because of environmental considerations that were not addressed at the initial planning stage.
why have i had to waste half an hour here?
i believe it is actually a waste of taxpayers' money to challenge it because i think it is quite clear to anybody with an ounce of common sense that they are not entitled to this money.
the key elements of this directive ensure the protection of surface water, coastal water, waste water and groundwater in the short and long term.
today it obliges member states to take into account the principle of recovery of costs of water-related services, including environmental and resource costs, in accordance with the polluter-pays principle.
this must be pursued in order to encourage higher environmental standards.
it is going to irreversibly damage the people and the environment and it will not solve the drugs problem.
i am referring to agriculture, the environment, regional policy, home affairs and justice, and the budget.
will there be environmental and social dumping?
there will be no environmental dumping and no social dumping because the new members will have to adopt our standards.
the enlargement is good for the environment.
mr president, i welcome the opportunity to make a brief contribution to this debate, which highlights the important role of the european parliament in the crucial area of food safety, public health and environmental standards.
those with an interest in developing a sustainable agricultural sector will be aware that the central thrust of recent reform as agreed in berlin is a continuing move from commodity support to direct income support for farmers.
despite what has been agreed, i sometimes wonder if it is possible to achieve this objective within existing budget constraints without undermining the agricultural budget necessary for a sustainable rural sector in existing member states.
safety and security does not mean sacrificing choice, or indeed cultural diversity, and one of the most interesting amendments of the committee on the environment, which supplements and strengthens the report, is on the preservation of the european cultural heritage with regard to local food specialities.
the idea that technology, know-how and money is spent on creating weapons that destroy people and the environment is unacceptable.
in recent decades, growing evidence has accumulated on the hormone-like effects of a number of industrial chemicals that have appeared in the environment.
the eu scientific committee on toxicity, eco-toxity and the environment has noted that there is a potentially global problem with wildlife.
the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy has therefore reached certain conclusions, in particular that all 560-plus suspected endocrine disrupting substances need to be fully evaluated.
at the outset i would like to pay tribute to mr clegg who has worked extremely hard over the last few of weeks with a view to ensuring that the final report was well-balanced and reflected the concerns of the difficulties of the various political groups within the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
we in the european union have been moving more and more towards closer cooperation and coordination, as mrs palacio has already stated, in areas such as the single market and environment.
as they are about to be resumed, so we hear – and i am glad to hear all these consultations are taking place – can we place any credibility in the working group on waste?
mr president, i would like to thank mrs rothe for an excellent report which is very timely this week when we are struggling with the crisis of climate change.
also, i would like to inform the commissioner that ireland can be competitive in wind energy in a very short time.
- concerns are being expressed in the european union about the lack of dynamism in the implementation of new waste management proposals.
in europe, waste is generated at a rate of more than one kilogram per person per day.
that means we produce 2 billion tons of waste every year.
the european union must be clear on one aspect of the solution to the problem of waste disposal: the future of waste disposal does not depend on a continuous search by local authorities for new landfills in the european union.
there is growing concern about the real consequences of landfills on the environment in general.
i think that nothing will solve this problem satisfactorily except the abandonment of the use of landfills in favour of a more integrated waste management policy.
the european parliament has been at the forefront of designing waste management strategies in recent years.
i support the objective of the directive we are discussing here today, which is to reduce the adverse effects of incineration on the environment and on public health by significantly limiting the levels of emissions into the air of several major pollutants.
this directive is also part of a wider environmental policy of the european union, aimed at reducing the use of polluting products across all economic sectors in europe, in compliance with the obligations established by the kyoto agreement.
these targets, which must be achieved within the next 15 years, include: the alternative treatment of 50% of all household waste, which usually ends up in landfills; a minimum 65% reduction in biodegradable waste currently stored in landfills; the development of waste recovery infrastructure using environmentally friendly technologies, capable of treating up to 300 000 tonnes of biodegradable waste per year.
all these measures reflect changes in public opinion on waste management.
madam president, i am extremely disappointed, like the vast majority of the house and the previous speakers, that the un world climate change summit was not a success in the hague.
it is regrettable that the participants did not reach an agreement on how best to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the future.
the kyoto accord of three years ago set out a timetable for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
the industrialised world in particular may have to set even stricter limits for the reduction of greenhouse gases in the future, if we are to ensure that the impact of global warming is to be arrested and ultimately controlled.
the challenge facing us in the issue of climate change is clearly one of the greatest challenges in the 21st century, if we are all to have a planet to live on in the future.
if we do not address this issue in a structured and streamlined manner, then global warming will increase, with serious side-effects for land, marine and aerial environments, not to mention human life.
it has already been said that the next meeting to discuss the issue of the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions will take place in bonn, which will coincide with a publication by the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change.
this panel is made up of some 3,000 scientists from all around the world who will give their assessment as to what measures are needed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the environment committee of this parliament has been at the forefront in addressing the issue of climate change in the past.
we are walking closely with the commissioner for the environment, mrs wallström, on a number of eu regulations and directives, which will help control greenhouse gases in the european union.
the environment committee and parliament have set a good example in the past as to how we should collectively address the issue of greenhouse gas reductions in the future.
we must not forget that our ultimate goal is to create the economic and social environment to enable the eu to become a dominant player in world trade with the countries of central and eastern europe playing their full part and benefiting from a peaceful and stable european economy.
– marine pollution, accidental and deliberate, is one of the major threats to the marine environment of western europe.
this region represents one of the most intensely industrialised areas of the world where chemical, radioactive and hydrocarbon materials are routinely discharged into the marine environment and carried by cargo ships.
there are several tragic examples of accidental marine pollution from tankers and other ships carrying other forms of dangerous cargoes.
as we have just heard, two of the most recent were the italian chemical tanker, which sank in the english channel, and also the maltese registered oil tanker, the erika, which sank off the coast of brittany causing major environmental havoc.
historically the marine environment has been used as the ultimate dumping-ground for much industrial waste.
this report acknowledges the need for establishing cooperation in the field of accidental marine pollution.
furthermore, there is a need to broaden the definition of accidental marine pollution to include operational, historical, radioactive and other harmful substances.
although much attention is rightly paid to the impact of marine accidents, in terms of chronic pollution it is the operational spills and discharges of hydrocarbons, radioactive materials and other harmful substances which, because they go largely unnoticed, are a cause of major concern.
in terms of the environment, whether a substance is accidentally or deliberately discharged is of no consequence, the environmental impact remains.
the transboundary nature of the marine environment, which means that pollution in one area can impact on a wider region, leads to the need for a community-wide framework for cooperation in the field of accidental marine pollution.
sharing information regarding hydrocarbons, radioactive substances and other harmful materials carried at sea or discharged into the sea, or which have been dumped as part of a historical dumping regime, is a vital prerequisite to facilitating the preparation and coordination of any responses necessary to mitigate the environmental and human health impacts of pollution incidents.
knowledge about the type and extent of potential pollution problems is also a prerequisite for correct preparation in terms of techniques, personnel and equipment at appropriate locations.
it is also necessary to be clear about the risks to the public and the environment and to alleviate justified public concern with accurate assessment of the risks.
the definition of accidental marine pollution includes a reference to munitions dumping.
indeed, as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy i have been strongly lobbied by various groups about the need to regulate more strictly the sale and presentation of tobacco products in europe.
in conclusion, since the treaty of amsterdam the european parliament has the power of coordination over environmental and consumer protection matters, and it will, of course, work closely with the council and the commission in this regard.
in response to mr ferber and his contention that postal companies do not have an obligation to create jobs, i agree with him, but believe that we have a responsibility to create an environment where companies like postal companies can deliver a good, efficient, universal postal service and to ensure that the jobs thereby provided are good-quality jobs.
it would not be able to survive in such an environment, it could not deliver universal services in ireland, it could not maintain the current level of local post offices in ireland as a result of such competition.
in a nutshell, this commitment for a community framework will hopefully, with the agreement of the commission and the council, put a legal base under existing schemes being pursued by networks of local and regional authorities which are actively promoting sustainable urban development.
they have the democratic, financial and administrative responsibility for urban sustainability.
mr president, the european sustainable cities and towns campaign, which is made up of an alliance of 540 different local authorities, has committed itself to implementing local policies and actions geared towards promoting sustainability.
the issue of sustainability does not only apply to towns and cities.
we must ensure that this report echoes public demands for a high level of protection for health and the environment.
the public no longer wants to bear the brunt of hazardous technological innovations which several or many years later prove to have entailed unnecessary risk to public health or the environment.
of course, if we can produce and promote food that is better for the environment and takes animal welfare into consideration, and sell that on world markets, then we will be really fulfilling the vocation for which the common agricultural policy was intended.