- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to stress that in an era of great technological change - just look at the information sector or other sectors such as energy and transport - the protection of competition will be of fundamental importance for our future.
on this point i agree with the committee on the environment and the rapporteur.
it could be said that, as things stand, we have again lost the opportunity to effectively strengthen sustainable urban development by containing the growing phenomenon of urbanisation and the associated degradation of the landscape.
it is now known that to achieve this goal, jobs in rural areas will have to be created not in agriculture as traditionally conceived - which is nevertheless an essential instrument for safeguarding the environment and biodiversity - but in sectors such as rural tourism, sport, culture, the environment, small and mediumsized enterprises and services.
in this respect, however, the most important debate concerns the climate.
but we, like everyone else, are also affected by the greenhouse effect.
as difficult as it is to demonstrate climate change through numerical examples, this effect is partly attributable to human beings.
we must pay more attention to the guidelines of the kyoto environmental conference.
we must reduce co2 emissions, use renewable energy sources and, in this connection, consider the state of europe's forests in general.
in tibet, it is not only a matter of human rights and the environment, but also of a unique cultural heritage which can transmit to us, also to europeans, important values such as calm, slowness, compassion, as the dalai lama says.
i do not know what syria and israel can and will do, but i do know that our institution can do a lot and it is time that it cares about people's lives with the same energy as when it thinks about the cold, amorphous, artificial neon reactors of our lamps, which illuminate a house, but certainly not the world of the third millennium.
i would like to make a comment on the so-called clean energy because it seems to me that this has escaped many people.
it is not true that electricity is clean energy: it is obvious that if i heat my city house with electric heaters instead of water heaters powered by a fuel oil boiler, there will be less pollution in the city.
but if we consider, as the report says, that to produce electricity we emit 30% of co2 into the atmosphere, it may be appropriate for the public to reconsider their conceptions and beliefs and, above all, for information to be more explicit about what is really clean energy and what is not.
- (it) mr president, as a representative of the party of retired persons, i voted in favour of the provision on the energy of ballasts for fluorescent lighting, even though i supported certain amendments which were not adopted by the house.
i agree with energy saving - and for some time now i have been reading the reports at night, which i will have to debate in the european parliament by candlelight, in order to make my modest contribution.
i think we must save energy but also have the common sense to understand that this must not lead to a total dismantling of the activities which employ european citizens.
on the other hand, one can understand the attitude of israeli prime minister barak, who proposed to president arafat that the deadline of 13 february be postponed by one or two months for the conclusion of an agreement in principle on the main points of the future final status of the palestinian territories occupied by israel since 1967. the postponement of the third round of negotiations between israel and syria is also linked to the climate of uncertainty resulting from the lack of security.
no, we should not start with a cost-benefit analysis, but rather with an assessment of what we know, what science can teach us and how we should view it in relation to the risks we believe exist for the environment or for human and animal health.
commission - (sv) mr president, i am the first to wish that we could use the precautionary principle in such a way that it is considered radical in terms of protecting human health and the environment.
we must look at the knowledge that science has to offer and use it as a vital policy instrument to protect the environment and human health.
the commission is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
since we ratified this protocol in montreal, we have international recognition and a common definition in a protocol on the environment, health and trade.
i know, mr barnier - or at least i think i do - that the representatives of the portuguese presidency and you yourself share these values: take advantage of the opportunities offered to you by the december conference to insert these themes and principles, because that is the only way to build a sustainable europe.
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the end-of-life vehicle directive certainly sets the stage for environmental improvement in europe.
i also believe that a great deal has been done to achieve intelligent recycling of materials, to reduce polluting waste and to encourage technological innovation.
to reconcile the environmental requirements with those of the market and employment.
- (it) mr president, the importance for the environment and for industry of the disposal under consideration is obvious and we are all aware of it.
i therefore say that parliament cannot exaggerate and it would be paradoxical if it did so in the context of the review of the environmental scope of the directive.
- (it) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, the conference on rural development, held in cork from 7 to 9 november 1996, identified rural development as one of the priorities of the european union, since it is essential for agriculture, for sustaining existence and continuous development, for providing farmers with an environment with the necessary infrastructure and services, for better respect for the environment and a better quality of life, and for diversification and job creation.
this is why an integrated development policy for all rural areas in the union is needed, with the following elements: an integrated and multisectoral approach, simplification of administrative procedures, improved partnership between the european institutions and local national actors and environmental protection.
the first principle is intended to create a new pact between the farmer and society, making the farmer the administrator of the countryside and ensuring that society is willing to pay for the environmental services needed to maintain the recreational value of rural space.
the creation of a positive urban environment in the social policy sector means implementing a policy to create long-term employment, combating poverty, taking measures to help low-income people and the elderly, setting up infrastructure for children, promoting ethnic and racial integration, creating better opportunities for participation, defining a targeted health policy including drug prevention measures, and implementing a concerted crime prevention policy.
to ensure this sustainability - a term which, incidentally, has become very vague, but we all understand what it implies - it is necessary, in particular, to establish links between, for example, tourism and agriculture in rural areas.
we must therefore be firm in our approach to enlargement, respecting the agreements which should, if necessary, be re-formulated in relation to certain fundamental problems, such as what happened in romania and which has had repercussions as far as belgrade - the ecological tragedy - but above all the indifference which continues to spread in relation to the major security problems.
first, the promotion and participation in the definition of joint projects for the creation of an integrated network of services in the transport and energy sectors, with the support of the european investment bank.
they require a great deal of energy, and this energy will be all the stronger the deeper the synergy between the institutions.
- (it) mr president, i would like to remind you that i voted in favour of this report on sustainable urban development.
but the increased emphasis on environmental protection in rural areas is also of particular importance for our common future.
the treaty of amsterdam reiterates the priority criteria for prevention, for the implementation of the ‘polluter pays’ principle and for sustainable development through an environmental impact assessment.
clearly, the importance of recognising the economic value of ecological factors in setting prices and making operators accountable through the adoption of incentives for non-polluting systems, seems unquestionable in the light of events that characterise the relationship between economic development and the protection of our environmental heritage, particularly our water resources.
the concept of good agricultural practice has been introduced in amongst the complexity of the current relationships between agriculture, environment and water resources, and between positive and negative effects, and amongst the wide range of local realities and production systems and so on.
this concept indicates which agricultural production method to use in order to satisfy the community expectation of an environmental protection of water resources that surpasses basic standards, along with the subsequent costs and reductions in income.
the obligation to develop and consolidate a strategy for integration derives from this notion, with the aim of keeping the management of water resources at the heart of the sustainable economic production model in the light of current conditions.
as regards eliminating the pollution generated by dangerous substances in the aquatic environment, an optimum approach should provide a regulation at both national and community levels, which enables clearer identification of the various classes of bodies of water polluted as a result of human production activities.
- (sv) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the committee on the environment, and especially the rapporteur, mrs lienemann, for the ambitious and constructive work she has done on this water framework directive.
an ambitious and well-balanced european policy is an essential element in ensuring europe's sustainable development.
it is our duty to ensure that this directive now offers the real motivations, the real driving forces for an effective tariff structure and price formation that improves our environment with good cost-effectiveness.
i can wholeheartedly support the demand that the price of water be set at a level which encourages the sustainable use of water resources.
i also support a gradual development towards covering the costs of the environment and resources.
we know that the price of water and water services is a complex issue and that not only environmental objectives but also social and economic objectives must be taken into account.
the proposal must also contain strict criteria for the extension of the deadlines for artificial or heavily modified water bodies and for the setting of lower environmental targets.
this concerns amendments nos 6, 24, 25, 27, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 78, 80, 102 and 104, which are not in the same category as the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
we need both a starting point and a definite objective to reverse the rising trends in pollution.
the proposal already establishes that water abstraction must be carried out in accordance with an ecological use of a water catchment area.
the following amendments cannot be accepted: 1, 4, 9, 11, 13, 15, 19, 23, 39, 40, 51, 59, 61, 64, 66, 70, 71, 71, 72, 74, 77, 79, 81, 83, 87, 89, 90, 91, 95, 97, 98, 100, 101, 103, 106, 107. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also proposed that the following amendments be rejected: in conclusion, i would like to say that i welcome the efforts made by parliament to resolve the problems on which the council's opinion differs.
significant progress has been made and the constructive tone of the discussions creates an excellent working climate for future negotiations.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0014/2000) by mrs lienemann, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a financial instrument for the environment (life).
- (it) mr president, first of all i should like to congratulate our colleague, mrs lienemann, on her deep concern for the environment, as is shown in the two reports we have been discussing this evening.
for the last five years i have been responsible for the environment committee of another institution which, because of its regional character, certainly does not have the broad vision of this parliament.
the situation with regard to the environment seems really very serious.
at the end of august i attended a meeting of the environment committee, where it was discussed without hesitation that a budget of 2 billion euros, or 4 trillion lire, would be needed to solve, at least in part, the problems of smoking.
yet the environmental problems are far more important than smoking.
commission - (sv) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of 1999, discussions have been taking place between the institutions on the proposed regulation concerning a third stage for the environment instrument - life.
i would like to congratulate the committee on the environment and mrs lienemann again on the excellent and constructive cooperation we have had on this matter.
i can confirm that the commission can accept all or some of the nine of the 14 amendments adopted by the committee on the environment.
as regards amendments nos 5 and 6, i would like to stress that the proposal for the sustainable exploitation of groundwater and surface water, and the proposal for the limitation of atmospheric pollutants which contribute to the greenhouse effect, are largely covered by life.
i am glad that the committee on the environment has shown confidence in the budget.
the amount set in amendment no 12 is not, however, in line with the budgetary plan drawn up on the basis of agenda 2000. let me also add that if the budget is increased, it is obvious that the environment directorate will also be required to deal with an increasing number of projects.
in conclusion, i would like to reiterate my conviction that life will become an effective instrument in the context of development support and the establishment of a common environmental policy.
thirdly, there is a horizontal approach to the women's issue in the four areas around which the communication is centred, namely paid work, the sustainability of pension schemes, social integration and, finally, the quality of health care, because in each of these areas - as the members have pointed out - there are problems specific to women which will, in many cases, require separate policies.
the portuguese presidency is focusing on two issues: sustainable pension schemes and social integration.
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when this house is called upon to reflect on the subject of human rights, it runs a great risk which has been underlined in some way by the climate in which we are called upon to debate this very important subject.
the european union must take a more decisive role, beyond financial aid - which is important - as a guarantor and promoter of contacts between the two communities, by establishing forums and programmes aimed at rebuilding a climate of confidence.
since 1993, the way in which the commission exercises its implementing powers, in particular the mysterious and even suspicious practice of committees, has led to conflicts and a climate of mistrust between the institutions, with the risk of serious consequences for the legislative process.
we believe that we have fulfilled this commitment, which was not too difficult for us in view of the climate of mutual trust and respect which prevailed in the negotiations with the commission.
so it would be a waste of time and we would vote against it.
for us, there are no consumers, but citizens who want to eat healthy food, products whose objective is not competitiveness but health, quality and respect for the environment, factors which are also job creators.
this shows that tourism is not the oil of the poor at all because it requires considerable investment in structures, infrastructure, entrepreneurship, professionalism, social services and training; whereas the tourism industry is fundamental to the balance of many regions as a direct source of employment and as a market for all local productive activities: agriculture, small businesses and craft industries, transport, services, trade, training; whereas the development of community tourism is closely linked to its sustainability in relation to community objectives; the european union is committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
in my view, the european union can, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, complement the action of the member states and contribute to the strengthening of tourism potential by means of certain measures, such as the adoption of a specific legal basis for tourism policy in the treaties; the adoption of programme and project mechanisms within the framework of regional and other union policies, capable of promoting tourism in all its forms: rural, environmental, cultural, research and training, congress, spa, for the elderly and sports; the amendment of directive 95/57 on the collection of statistical information in the field of tourism; co-financing of projects for the implementation of new transport services and infrastructure; the co-financing of pilot actions for the exchange of experience and benchmarking.
the commission and parliament can help us to understand what exactly is at stake, because the term 'tourism', as the viceconte report has pointed out, is still an ambiguous term, a kind of data which varies according to latitude, climate, many factors, many elements of interpretation; it can be synonymous with a holiday or it can actually be a place of production, income, wealth and employment.
we believe that the european union and the commission must make a strong commitment to sustainable tourism, which means having a strategy of environmental compatibility after the excesses of recent years when private wealth often did not correspond to so many jobs.
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in its original version, the report by mr katiforis had the great merit of drawing from the specific observations in the commission's report on the economic situation in europe, strong indications for a european union strategy to ensure the continuity and stability of the prospects for sustainable development that are emerging in 2000 for all the countries of our continent.
after years of limiting the mediterranean cfp to marketing regulations and aid to enterprises, regulation 1626 finally launched a responsible fisheries policy accompanied by measures to protect the vulnerability of fisheries resources in order to ensure their sustainable use.
we hope that this proposal will take account of the fact that this fishing system is vital to the economy of large italian maritime regions and that the scientific data collected so far show that, from the point of view of the biological impact, there is some sustainability.
we believe it is essential to provide financial support for traditional and artisanal fishing, as well as income support for fishermen during periods of biological cessation, in other words to reconcile a significant and responsible economic activity with respect for the environment.
- (it) mr president, i should like to begin by saying that i am pleased to see that the katiforis report takes account of the various factors responsible for the deterioration of the marine environment.
pollution, uncontrolled fishing, the presence of drilling platforms, the pressure of human activity on coastal areas - these are all potential sources of large-scale environmental damage, both on the coast and in the open sea, of which fishing is the victim.
it is therefore right to look more closely at the relationship between fisheries and the environment.
the use of selective fishing gear, reducing by-catches and waste is certainly an essential aspect, as is the reduction of fishing pressure, both in coastal and offshore waters.
in some cases, traditional fishing has a lower impact on the environment and resources.
i am also pleased that the report has considered the possibility of launching an information campaign to fishermen and consumers on the risks arising from the reckless exploitation of fishery resources, and i welcome the request to the commission to propose the establishment of a european prize to be awarded to various categories of the sector and to all those who offer services and advice on responsible behaviour towards the sustainable management of fish stocks and the conservation of the marine environment.
but the proposal is clearly about roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles, both passenger and goods vehicles, which are intended to increase safety and environmental protection in road transport in the community.
i do not have time to dwell on the other elusive and moderate, too moderate, aspects of your programme, such as the environment, health, justice, transport, security, the hasty enlargement of the union - which was criticised by your predecessor jacques delors - the development of the online economy, which is one of the countless panaceas for unemployment, or the protection of citizens who are consumers and not citizens who are consumers.
the second does not have a place in a specific directive, since the introduction of genetically modified organisms on the european market must be dealt with in a comprehensive and homogeneous way, as is done in the framework of the provisions on the voluntary release of genetically modified organisms into the environment, or the directive on novel food products and food ingredients.
the other amendments, which were rejected by the commission's directorate-general for the environment, deal with matters which are decisive for the balance of the common position and cannot therefore be approved.
the commission, in addition to this att 3 proposal, which you are interested in, has received another set of alternative proposals and believes, on the basis of the technical, economic and environmental assessments of the various member states concerned, that the so-called 'base tunnel' option, which is the one that is being implemented, has a number of advantages over the other alternative routes.
i should also add that a significant part of the financial support already granted is directly linked to the environmental aspects of the project, that we will continue to support financially the brenner project and, in particular, the technical design of the base tunnel section which is about to be started.
of course, in all cases, the environmental impact factor, given that this is a sensitive area, as i said earlier when i was talking about a problem in the pyrenees, is one of the key factors when determining the specific project and monitoring the actual implementation of the project.
- (de) mr president, i would just like to ask you to consider, in this connection, that a high-speed train naturally constitutes a significant noise pollution if it does not pass under the mountain and i would ask the commissioner to consider the following element.
but i also think that we cannot limit this development, which does not mean that we should not do everything possible to ensure that this development is carried out in the most environmentally friendly way possible, with the least possible negative effects on the environment, especially in sensitive areas such as the alps or the pyrenees themselves.
- (de) mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for the great sensitivity she has shown so far with regard to traffic in the brenner region and the brenner base tunnel and, above all, for reiterating here that special attention should be paid to the environment.
i would add that mr messner's question contains the following sentence: 'in the case of the construction of a new line, the solution with the least impact on the environment should be considered'.
i do not understand at all why the commission is being asked to tolerate any impact on the environment, however small.
we don't want to waste any time.
this is not a food problem, but a very worrying health problem: the water distribution network is very bad, the collection system is destroyed, waste water and water for food use are mixed dramatically, which leads to a rate of dysentery that increases child mortality considerably.
we want russia to comply with its commitments in the framework of the osce and the council of europe and to seek a political settlement; we want it to allow independent investigations into reported cases of human rights violations, to encourage an environment conducive to the functioning of an independent press and to respond to legitimate requests from humanitarian actors: all of which are also included in your resolution.
the common agricultural policy is an instrument for farmers; this is the pillar that must lead agricultural enterprises towards a global recognition of the role of farmers, both in the eyes of consumers and in relation to major environmental issues.
we have heard too many speeches praising the productive, environmental and consumer and farmer protection roles.
for these reasons, we have some reservations about the extension to all consumer and environmental protection associations, which cannot claim or exercise any right or duty in this type of action.
the first is that we will seek better international standards within the icao framework, that we will work together within the icao and that we will pursue a common objective, which is to further reduce noise pollution at airports and therefore to achieve better noise levels, through the application of the most modern technologies, with a phase-out period for the noisiest aircraft and the creation of a chapter 4. the second is that we can negotiate that the americans suspend their action in the icao under article 84 and that we suspend - we can negotiate this - the part of the regulation concerning third country airlines, in no case the part concerning european airlines, since this regulation will come into force on 4 may.
i would also like to join the commissioner in her comments to this house on the strategy adopted by the commission to develop this matter, and to tell the house that, in accordance with the opinion of the council presidency and also of the commission, this subject has been discussed and integrated into a wider problem which we intend to deal with today in this parliament, and which concerns an area of crucial importance for the future of europe: air transport and the environment, and the means of meeting the challenges of sustainable development.
first, the development and adoption in the near future of international noise standards, a decision to be taken at the icao assembly in 2001, and the provision of transitional arrangements for the phasing out of the noisiest aircraft, which should meet the concerns of regions with stricter environmental standards and more pressing noise problems.
secondly, economic incentives should be introduced to reduce the environmental impact of the various aviation operations, taking into account the need to avoid distortions of competition, the specific nature of operations involving peripheral locations and voluntary agreements with industry.
thirdly, it is necessary to consider the future development, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, of guidelines for the sustainable development of airports which should constitute an objective basis for the measures to be adopted by the competent authorities taking into account the needs of the populations living in the vicinity of airports.
in the field of economic and financial cooperation, the commission has a duty to relaunch negotiations with a view to the signing of socially sustainable trade agreements.
mediterranean policy is being developed in a world of conflicting interests and latent tensions and must therefore present various aspects: the european union is also committed to the development of direct peacekeeping initiatives now that the middle east peace process has been revived, and in this connection we would like to thank the pope, whose journey is towards a new relationship between the different religions so that they can understand and help each other; the european union is also committed to the creation of partnership projects involving the countries of northern and southern europe, because the objective of making the mediterranean a zone of dialogue, tolerance and cooperation and a guarantee of peace and stability cannot be achieved without a strong political will and without sustainable and balanced social and economic development.
we must promote the growth of an environment favourable to private investment by means of technical assistance which guarantees these third countries the same type of aid as that granted to the ceecs, by means of the possibility of an interregional and transnational cooperation programme complementary to meda and interreg, as is done between the countries bordering the mediterranean, by means of the possibility, finally, of a new generation of programmes which will overcome the present inefficiency of the myriad community programmes for the southern mediterranean and which already today - as we can see after a quick analysis - involve no less than seventeen commission directorates and countless micro-projects which probably do not pursue this objective.
the starting point for our assessment of this report is therefore that it comes in an unsatisfactory context, in which our priorities - those of an open and functioning democracy, capable of reorienting economic development in an environmentally sustainable way, of ensuring respect for and strengthening the rights of citizens and residents and, above all, of welcoming new members quickly - are not those of the governments negotiating.
i believe that we must ensure that these statistics are recorded, and that they are recorded properly, but i would like above all to take this opportunity and this explanation of vote to ask our parliament, the commission and the council to avoid what often happens - as a result of the application of statistics, for example, on milk quotas and agricultural products, which determine what can be produced - namely the waste of funds due to the destruction of foodstuffs in excess of the authorized quantities.
no one is unaware of the illiberal acts of these multinational corporations, which destroy and pollute people and the environment.
to reorganise the wto while preventing the development and protection policies of poor countries, small producers and artisans from being sanctioned and, as proposed in the dary report, by promoting market access for fair trade organizations with a spirit of solidarity, to invest in ecological and socially sound agriculture.
airports have been built in a haphazard way and cities - or some of their neighbourhoods - have developed around airport structures without any concrete environmental impact assessment.
the commission proposes that serbia should initially only have the 40 million available in the budget for 2001, for example for the 'energy for democracy' action.
how does the commission intend to solve, without credits and direct aid, the problem of industrial pollution, the viability of the danube, the bridges destroyed by american bombing, which have considerably reduced river traffic in five neighbouring countries?
how does the commission intend to contribute - not in three years' time, but in the next few months - to solving the problem of the serious pollution caused by the bombing of the petrochemical plants in pancevo, which have polluted with toxic gases extremely large areas, sowing, harvesting?
according to the latest united nations report, this pollution has also seeped into the groundwater in the form of dioxins, mercury and other toxic substances.
the member states must nevertheless respect the commitments they have made and the commission must take account of the guidelines set out in budget line b5-700 - a major budget line established in 1998 - by promoting models which are less harmful to the environment and, above all, by taking into account the interests of local populations, particularly when a transeuropean line crosses areas with a high population density or highly industrialized regions.
that is why we say that the appropriations for these projects should not exceed 50 per cent of the appropriations that have been set aside and that, after any review, the funds still available for projects which have not been carried out should be able to be used for other projects, which have among their priorities respect for the environment.
in a region covering three states, the brenner is a very sensitive ecological area requiring special attention.
the problem is the choices to be made to avoid the major pollution problems which are on the agenda in austria, but also in italy and germany.
in recent years we have seen the opposite phenomenon, which is very strange in the light of the commitments of the western countries: in certain parts of our planet the number of undernourished people is constantly increasing and this phenomenon is further aggravated by the ecological disasters or, worse, by the wars which, until recently, have been a chronicle.
i think it is extremely important, however, that parliament should be able to vote, to approve - if that is the indication of this house, as was the substantially unanimous indication of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy and of all the parliamentary committees which expressed their opinion - to give its assent before the referendum which will take place in switzerland on 21 may.
the maximum legal level of impurities must also be fixed; the aid must encourage the production of high-quality fibres and not the presence of waste in the fibres.
i simply want to say this: the situation is a little surprising: on the one hand we have embarked on a policy of austerity which has the result that all our budgets and discharges are blocked by a rigorous parliament, to the point of blocking the discharge to be given to the commission, even blocking the discharge to be given to the european parliament itself, for fear of problems, visa refusals or waste of money attributable to the missions of officials who are forced to commute between luxembourg and brussels, which costs a fortune to the taxpayers.
if we adopt a position, we cannot shout our indignation at waste and at the same time propose such a budget.
i therefore ask the following question: why waste money on having mr bosch draft texts which have nothing to do with his work and which parliament rightly rejects.
consequently, the economic impact and the technical and organisational commitment could be extremely significant, as could the environmental impact of a massive use of incineration at particularly high temperatures.
it is necessary to provide for the adoption of harmonised measures on financial support, to provide common organisational guidelines, to develop, through applied research measures, new treatment technologies with a minor impact on the environment which allow the recovery of materials in compliance with consumer safety requirements.
we believe, for example, that the proposal to set up compulsory treatment consortia, on the model of those already provided for by the regulations of certain member states, can provide a concrete response to the need to limit the economic impact of treatment practices on farmers and, at the same time, by increasing the degree of social control over the proper functioning of the service, to strengthen the guarantees for consumers and the environment.
- the next item is the report (a5-0128/2000) by mr gonzález álvarez, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme for the monitoring of the average specific emissions of co2 from new passenger cars.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the oral question (b5-0223/2000) from the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy to the commission on the mox demonstration plant at the british nuclear fuels site in sellafield.
the union's strategic objective for the coming decade must be to promote economic growth and free enterprise without breaking the social question through policies based on competitiveness, sustainable development and the creation of new jobs.
sustainable growth will require the completion of the internal market and the removal of existing barriers by liberalizing sectors which are not yet fully open to free competition, such as transport, gas, electricity and postal services.
i am thinking here of the many calls for a freeze on social spending, structural reforms of the labour market, privatization of the telecommunications and energy sectors.
- (it) madam president, i voted in favour of the gonzález álvarez report on the control of carbon dioxide emissions from new passenger cars.
but if, mr president, we are to ask greece to reduce its debt - and we know that this is now done only by cutting pensions - instead of avoiding waste - which under the governments that are essentially socialist, as the previous speaker said, is waste of a budgetary nature - in order to join monetary union, then the pensioners and the elderly in greece must not bear the cost.
the resolution proposes two basic options: new sustainability criteria and greater flexibility for the most indebted countries and bilateral cancellation for the least developed acp countries.
the creation of a common research area in europe will also make it possible to develop networks of centres of excellence and to find the critical mass needed for the advancement of knowledge in itself and for providing practical answers to citizens, ranging from the control of serious diseases such as aids or cancer to neurodegenerative diseases, air pollution injuries, etc.
madam president, i ask you to take the necessary steps to convey to the slovenian government and to president kuçan the deep dissatisfaction of this parliament with the unacceptable statements that have been made and which certainly do not create a favourable climate for the negotiations on slovenia's accession to the european union, which we hope will be successful.
i think that the balance between these two aspects in the text adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is a reward for the titanic work that has been done in recent months.
the committee on the environment intends to ban all the qualifiers - light, ultralight, mild - which are considered to be a real deception, thus eliminating any possibility of derogation by the member states.
in order to take account of the requirements of tobacco growers and industrialists, we propose, in accordance with the vote in the committee on the environment and with a new amendment, number 98, to support the view that the objective of converting the sector is maintained but that slightly longer deadlines are allowed, by introducing maximum levels for domestic production from 2004 and for export from 2006. in this way we are repelling the attacks of those who, in the name of production, reject the very requirement to introduce maximum permitted levels for tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide.
another sensitive point is the derogation granted to greece allowing it to continue to produce stronger cigarettes until 2006. after a long discussion, our group feels that we should support the maintenance of the present situation, that is to say, yes to the derogation for greece and no to its extension to nicotine and carbon monoxide.
we all know how intense the debate was in the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has adopted an amendment which abolishes subsidies for european tobacco production.
we have succeeded in turning nuclear energy into something different; it would be absurd not to be able to transform, or at least to intervene in the transformation of, such sectors into productive sectors which will develop in economic and social terms.
the agenda calls for the report (a5-0161/2000) by mrs hulthén on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on substances that deplete the ozone layer (c5-0156/2000 - 1998/0228 (cod)).
we have worked hard to find this compromise and to ensure that we have effective environmental legislation in this area.
i would like to take this opportunity to thank in particular the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee and, in particular, the rapporteur, mrs hulthén, for their thorough and constructive work.
the new text provides for a series of measures to minimise emissions of substances responsible for the destruction of the ozone layer.
the most important complementary measures are those aimed at reducing the production and use of hcfcs, stopping the production and consumption of methyl bromide by 2004, banning the use of materials such as cfcs and halogens, the production of which is already prohibited, stricter rules for the handling of substances that deplete the ozone layer, stricter requirements for the training of the personnel concerned, an obligation to recycle or destroy these substances, and improved control and licensing criteria.
the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
the next item is the report (a5-0143/2000) by mrs thors, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission to the european parliament, the council, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions on the development of the digital television market in the european union - report submitted in the context of directive 95/47/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 24 october 1995 on the use of standards for the transmission of television signals (com ((1999) 540 - c5-0114/00 - 2000/2074 ((cos)).
the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0145/2000) by mr van velzen, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission to the council, the european parliament, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions 'towards a new framework for electronic communications infrastructures and associated services - 1999 review of the regulatory framework for communications' (com (99) 0539 - c5-0141/00 - 2000/2085 (cos)).
- (it) mr president, i voted in favour of this report because it is important to take action on everything that is damaging to our environment.
the damage caused by this dumping of waste was twofold: to the sea and to the man who would later become the member of parliament fatuzzo.
- (it) madam president, while congratulating mr vidal-quadras on his excellent report, i would like to point out that the joint research centres for which the dismantling of nuclear waste facilities and management are planned, in particular the one in ispra, are located in densely populated areas whose environmental characteristics and quality of life cannot be endangered in any way.
the problem therefore arises not only of carrying out such interventions in the strictest observance of the safety rules in force, but also of being able to assure the local population of the best possible quality of the interventions, thus taking as a basis the maximum respect for the integrity of the environment and man.
as parliament has already said, the decommissioning of obsolete installations and the management of waste will have to be financed by special funds not deducted from the sums spent on research.
another thing that worries me is the uncertainty about the action programme for the final disposal of waste.
the absence of national regulations and uncertainties about the actual volume of waste could create new financial problems which will have to be taken into account.
- (it) madam president, the commission has taken a courageous initiative and i agree with the excellent vidal-quadras report on the need to deal with the problems raised by the nuclear past of the joint research centre in a transparent manner, that is to say, by the requirement to dismantle obsolete installations and to manage radioactive waste.
i would like to emphasize certain points which have already been raised on several occasions, on the basis that health and environmental imperatives must always take precedence over economic objectives, even if we cannot ignore the latter.
it must be admitted that for a time the relationship between energy costs, depending on the source, was distorted by the underestimation of the induced cost of decommissioning and waste management.
- (it) madam president, i too would like to begin by congratulating mr vidal-quadras on the content of his report on the dismantling of nuclear installations and the management of waste.
it must be said, however, that the present situation of the joint research centres, among them and especially that of ispra, is the result of a past policy which did not take into account the problem of the disposal of radioactive waste.
we are faced with a situation of concern, to say the least, as regards the safe treatment of this waste.
we need a specific and - i would say - short or at most medium-term plan, which puts the safety of citizens and the environment first.
in a country like mine, where there is no specific legislation, the ability of the ispra researchers to dispose of radioactive waste should be used.
i think that the directives and regulations adopted by our parliament should be implemented, and that parliament should not waste time on discussions of another kind, which may well take place in committees.
- (it) mr president, i must say that i was very surprised to have to vote in favour of this report, because it is a bit of a surrender to one of the foundations of what was the origin of the european union, namely euratom: the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
i will recall that when i was young, one of my favorite books and one that i will never forget was my friend the atom by walt disney, a book that clearly explained how much better our future would be through the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
on the other hand, i saw a country that was strongly committed to modernisation, and i felt a great fervour in determining the areas of development in the field of the environment, land use planning, agriculture, tourism and the construction of major infrastructure.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i listened carefully to mr westendorp as he spoke to us about the economic, social, environmental and political benefits of china's accession to the wto.
i will not quote again the figures relating to the consequences of this hurricane; i just want to point out that the social and environmental damage, far more than the economic damage, is what concerns us and affects this region.
we must start from this observation, from the ecological and social vulnerability of central america, to understand that we cannot limit ourselves to the practice of the culture and politics of emergency.
we must first of all activate the instruments of control and verification in order to avoid waste, illegality and fraud.
the future of european integration, the validity and sustainability of the union's institutions in the now concrete and more immediate perspective of enlargement to include 12 other countries, and the relationship with citizens, their consent and support are at stake.
this charter will only be successful if it has a binding legal value - it must have good content, but it must also have a legal value, at the risk of being absolutely useless - and if it also provides for certain new rights, such as the right to the environment and certain basic social rights, such as trade union rights and the right to strike.
we cannot waste any more time, let alone give up ten trillion lire; the italian economic situation does not allow it and the italian taxpayer would not allow it either.
therefore, the definition of objectives also including, in the strategies of repression or prevention, countries which are not currently members of the union but are in the pre-accession phase, countries participating in the phare programme or norway, is undoubtedly a constructive and sustainable initiative, as it helps us to broaden our scope of action in the field of strategy against the drug phenomenon.
the liberalisation of energy markets is a key factor in the development of the economy.
it is important to accelerate the process of liberalisation in the electricity and gas sectors by harmonising the energy policy framework in the member states.
we will thus have a direct assessment of the impact on consumers of the process of liberalising energy markets.
i do not think it will have a negative effect on employment because the fall in the cost of energy will allow businesses to expand and create more jobs than those which will be lost because of the end of monopolies.
in the end, the only ones who pay the price are the citizens, especially the young people who have wasted energy and time in ensuring that the results are obtained and that the official recognition is given, and who have felt betrayed by the institutions.
this is a major danger which is damaging to the forestry heritage and the environment throughout the european union, but which will cause major damage in the economy and the recovery of employment in the tourism industry in all the mediterranean countries.
the first problem to be tackled is that of public finances: the positive development of the deficit-to-gdp ratio, which in a few years has fallen below the 2 per cent mark in the euro area, conceals the fact that in many countries, in many cases, this result is due solely to the favourable interest rate environment and a level of taxation that has increased rather than decreased.
- (it) mr president, i abstained from voting on mr lehne's report not because i am opposed to the measures it proposes - it is right to use all means to combat crime and the fight against money laundering from criminal acts is useful, important and just - but because, in my opinion, the european union is not doing enough to combat financial crime, which, among other things, is taking away energy, resources, means and money that could be used by our governments to carry out more socially important activities, such as providing for the needs of the less wealthy part of our population, which also includes the elderly and the retired.
- the report (a5-0149/2000) by mr arvidsson, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending for the 22nd time directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations (phthalates) and amending council directive 88/378/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the safety of toys.
after discussing the risks of pvc toys containing phthalates and hearing the opinion of the scientific committee on toxicity, ecotoxicity and the environment, the commission took two decisions last autumn.
the first provided for a temporary emergency ban, renewable every three months.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-193/2000) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a system for the identification and registration of bovine animals and concerning the labelling of beef and beef products and repealing regulation (ec) no 820/97 (rapporteur: mr papayannakis).
for this reason, in addition to the great difficulty that seems to be encountered in defining homogeneous categories, i want to support the amendments proposed at second reading by the committee on the environment.
the commission is fully aware of the environmental problems in the alpine corridors, but it points out that a balanced approach is needed to take account of the various interests involved in such circumstances.
the brenner route is one of the crucial transit routes through the alps, which is a good example of the need to strike a balance between rail and road in order to protect the environment and at the same time guarantee the free movement of goods.
as for the road, it should be stressed that an increase in road traffic does not automatically imply more pollution.
in general, the commission will continue to seek solutions to the environmental problems caused by trafficking.
the outcome of this communication will influence future planned actions which, according to the initial guidelines, will include a coherent package of complementary measures to reduce the impact of traffic in certain sensitive areas: technical standards to improve environmental and safety conditions, pricing instruments to adjust transport charges to the real cost of transport in all its forms, improvement of transport efficiency, including by optimising intermodality, and enhancement of railway competitiveness.
- (it) i am very satisfied with the answer because i wanted to know which member states were concerned, not out of curiosity but to get an idea of the extent of the gaps in the signage of biodiversity areas.
- (it) mr president, i voted in favour of this recommendation which establishes limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide in ambient air.
i would also like to stress my request that in future we should not only be concerned about the air our fellow citizens breathe, but also about the air that workers breathe who are in contact with, for example, benzene and carbon monoxide.
- (it) mr president, i voted in favour and congratulate the rapporteur, mrs jackson, who has been so insistent on the need to translate this recommendation into a directive on the practical organization of environmental inspections.
it is in vain that this parliament adopts hundreds and thousands of important and useful directives and regulations if there are not effective, concrete and sufficient checks to ensure that these regulations are actually applied and that european citizens really benefit from them, particularly - as i have just said - when it comes to environmental health as in this case and when non-compliance with the rules is particularly harmful to the elderly and the retired.
we can keep going like this, but we're gonna waste time.
- (it) mr president, i voted in favour of the redondo report which regulates the european union's response to fires and air pollution.
i would like to see this recital applied to the supply of gas for domestic use, taking into account the fact that many people have limited incomes - including pensioners who do not have enough to live on - and that provision should be made for them to be provided with a minimum amount of gas or other energy free of charge.
there are indeed a number of actions in different fields - social, environment, training, development, agriculture, etc.
- (it) mr president, the framework decision presented by the council merely copies the 1998 council of europe convention on the fight against environmental crime, which has not yet been ratified by any council of europe member country.
almost all our countries have environmental protection legislation based mainly on very modest fines, which encourages environmental destroyers to maximize profits by trying not to use all modern environmental protection techniques.
in recent years, for example, we have seen serious disasters such as the sinking of the erika, which was nothing more than a sea-going barge used to transport crude, or the pollution of the danube by cyanide from the romanian mine, all because the big companies who are responsible know that they are protected by a kind of impunity which ensures them enormous profits.
this framework decision allows european countries to increase fines in order to make this offence - the environmental offence - uneconomic.
as long as the cost is borne by the community and not by the culprits alone, we have no hope of protecting the environment effectively.
in its new penal code, italy intends to insert the responsibility of legal entities, especially since today, major environmental offences are not committed by isolated individuals but by large multinational companies which, because they do not invest in prevention, cause incalculable damage.
another important aspect is the cooperation between the countries established by this framework decision, namely the creation of an information network ensuring a rapid exchange of data, a treaty requiring environmental offences to be considered as offences authorizing the extradition or confiscation of property and profits or making them in any case uneconomic.
it is therefore a report which expresses the opinion of the committee on civil liberties and human rights in its entirety and, hopefully, of the european parliament, which must ensure that european countries finally have effective legislation to protect the environment.
the share of criminal sanctions is certainly not a significant share and the coherence of the european legal framework must be ensured, but this is not the only issue in respect of environmental protection and environmental disasters.
we know, for example, that in the european union, emissions are falling for structural reasons.
it is therefore better to force him to calculate the costs of pollution every day.
finally, i would like to return to the delicate question of the relationship between the state and pollution.
we are talking about individuals and companies, when it is often state enterprises, or even the state itself, that are responsible for major environmental disasters.
the first concerns short sea shipping and the second concerns the environment and the sea, which is often the victim of serious violations to the detriment of the environment.
what we can do to develop the private sector, to help the environment in which small and mediumsized enterprises operate, to modernise infrastructure and to promote investment, industrial cooperation and trade will be welcome, because so far the economic and productive fabric of the partner countries has not been supported and industrial cooperation has been an absolutely marginal element in the absence of direct support programmes and joint initiatives between european enterprises and partner countries.
it means talking about war, about catastrophes, about the damage being done to the world's ecological system.
i am referring to a few newspaper reports from the last few months: the north pole that gave signs of melting where absolutely no one imagined it; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the pollution of the water in bangladesh, which is endangering the safety, hygiene and health of 25 million people.
this programming requires better coordination at international level between the european union and all the other actors involved in humanitarian aid, and it requires better coordination within the european union between the commission and the instruments at the disposal of the member states, in order to avoid duplication, repetition and, therefore, waste of energy and resources, as has often happened, as the commission document says, and as the evaluations have confirmed.
europe must therefore act with greater determination and take the appropriate steps to prevent too many delays, deliberate delay and waste of time from leading to dangerous accelerations of extremist positions which - believe me, madam president, ladies and gentlemen - will not benefit the middle east, europe or the world as a whole.
a real crime against peace, but also against the environment and nature: just think of mount jellab edumin, the green hill around jerusalem that was bulldozed.
first of all: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the requirement to carry out an environmental impact assessment at a very early stage of spatial planning makes it possible to integrate environmental issues fully into the design of spatial planning plans and programmes.
the amendments adopted in the committee on the environment have made significant improvements to the council's common position.
i believe, however, that the amendments made, in particular amendments nos 19, 29 and 31, are sufficient to avoid overlapping of the two directives and to ensure respect for the environment.
finally, this directive provides for the collection of waste from ships when they arrive in ports, and that is a positive thing.
there is a lot of support for the mediterranean countries, for example through the meda programme: i think that the commission should be asked to organize the collection of waste at their ports.
- madam president, i voted in favour of this report which introduces strategic environmental assessment, that is, special attention to environmental problems when major works are being built, because i think that everything that goes towards the beauty of nature, the beauty of the landscape, and so on, is positive.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to take any further action to ensure that the environment is protected.
it is important, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not give birth to a new human species, as seems to be happening also with natural and environmental cataclysms.
in both these objectives, the institutionalisation and implementation of social indicators which are now necessary for assessing policies, the specification of poverty and culture objectives, which will be discussed during the french presidency, and agreement on axes relating to the sustainability of pensions are among the commission's priorities.
the commission is aware of the fact that the directive on the ecological quality of water, which i believe the honourable member is referring to, incorporates all the essential elements of the proposal on the ecological quality of water, and i understand that the proposal has already been withdrawn.
it is not only a matter of reconciling the production and environmental aspects, but it also opens up - i repeat, in such an important sector - a path which was once called the ecological conversion of the economy.
i am convinced that the common text strikes a good balance between the need to ensure a high level of environmental protection and the legitimate interests of the various actors.
first, the provision in article 5 (1) does not oblige member states to set up separate collection systems with special financing requirements, but allows them to use existing waste collection systems.
secondly, as regards article 5 (3), it is for the member states to decide which producers, dealers and collectors are to be registered under the waste framework directive or in a new register specifically created.
in general terms, this text is an important step towards sustainable production and consumption, a model for future community initiatives in the field of specific waste streams, such as the directive on electronic and electrical waste, to which reference has been made.
- the next item is the report (a5-0187/2000) by mrs lucas, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the communication from the commission to the council, the european parliament, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions on air transport and the environment (com (99) 640 - c5-0086/2000 - 2000/2054 (cos)).
as we all know, the environmental consequences of air transport have recently been a subject of great interest.
at local level, discussions on airport development are increasingly driven by environmental considerations relating to noise reduction and improving air quality in the vicinity of airports.
in addition, the long-term impact of air transport gases on climate change is undoubtedly a cause for concern in the world today, as is the impact of other types of emissions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the new technologies.
this requires a stable operating environment, without any game-changing fluctuations or changes that could have disastrous economic consequences for the operation of the aeronautical companies.
in my view, trying to safeguard the environment simply by curbing the growth of the aviation sector and the airline industry is not a valid option we can consider.
but there is no doubt that citizens, not only those who are in the vicinity and who suffer more directly from certain types of pollution, such as noise or even emissions, but also citizens in general, who want a quality of life and sustainable development over time, have the right to demand from us actions and movements that guarantee that way of growth which must be the european model.
in its communication on air transport and the environment, the commission argues that the aviation industry must redouble its efforts to improve the environmental quality of new aircraft being built.
if the current rate of growth is maintained, the necessary improvements to offset the environmental impact of the expected growth in air traffic will not be made.
but the commission is also aware that the air transport industry is quite right in saying that before environmental measures are put into practice, a serious and thorough study of the economic and social impact of such measures is necessary.
i have the impression that those who are most concerned about the environment are now gradually but increasingly accepting the fact that when developing a particular environmental policy, it is necessary to take account of the balance between the cost and the effectiveness of the proposed measures.
the report before us addresses these essential aspects and takes account both of the need to strengthen environmental protection beyond routine efforts and of the cost-benefit analysis factor.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0218/00) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 92/23/eec relating to tyres for motor vehicles and their trailers and their fitting (c5-0220/2000 - 1997/0348 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr de roo).
- the next item is the report (a5-0168/2000) by mr bakopoulos, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending for the 19th time council directive 76/769/eec on the restriction of the placing on the market and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations ( azo dyes) (com (99) 620 - c5-0312/1999 - 1999/0269 (cod)).
following an opinion of the scientific committee on toxicity, ecotoxicity and the environment confirming such risks, the commission proposed in december of last year a directive restricting marketing and use of certain azocolourants which could pose a risk of cancer if they come into close contact with the skin.
3, 4 and 7 of the committee on the environment are the ones i refer to.
this applies to amendment no 5 of the committee on the environment.
to summarise our point of view, we can accept amendment no 1 of the committee on the environment.
2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the committee on the environment.
it must also be able to adapt to the new commercial environment in which it must evolve without losing its autonomy.
however, it is intended to define a comprehensive strategy to combat this scourge and in its communication the commission has, moreover, opted for a threefold approach: first, to gather the views of experts on the ethical, legal and scientific implications of the phenomenon; secondly, to contribute to the world conference on doping and to work with the olympic movement before creating the world anti-doping agency; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of environmental protection.
the revolver is for self-defence or killing; atomic energy is used to make us feel better or to make atomic bombs.
mr president, i think that the conservation of tropical forests must depend, of course, on the provision of funds, contributions and so on, but above all - and this is what i liked about this regulation - on the involvement of local people, giving them some ideas for a future and a truly sustainable management of the forest.
in this forest there was a spectacular biodiversity, as there is always in these forests: 270 plant species in one hectare, whereas in our forest there are only six or seven species in one hectare.
now, this rich biodiversity -- which is not just plant life -- has an economic impact that is already quite impressive.
in reality, the market, especially the new economy, is a complex environment where rigidity is swept away by the commercial relationships between actors and the variety of ways in which a transaction can be concluded.
it is a report which is intended to help developing countries in the environmental dimension.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
this will ensure greater stability, a better climate for bilateral relations and greater opportunities for economic development for all the populations concerned.
in view of this limitation and in view of the possibilities for financing projects involving minority languages, in the context of the european year of languages 2001, it was decided not to enter specific appropriations in 2001, but i am considering the possibility of more sustainable support in the future for these languages, and within the framework defined by the 1999 agreement.
in other words, i really hope that the european year of languages will get something going and that by the end of that year we can all come up with a sustainable solution that does not force us to come back every year and fight for funding.
it is therefore important that there should be a european directive to prevent the emission of harmful emissions.
we need a decision-making forum to deal with issues of central importance to both sides, such as migration flows, the transfer of production factors, energy supplies.
it is clear that in europe we have a fairly complete legislative system, but changes in the labour market, changes in the economy, changes in the environment due to globalisation and the information society are creating new needs.
mr ripoll, earlier, also stressed the importance of the sustainability or permanence of the measures taken, precisely because of the permanence of disabilities.
ladies and gentlemen, i believe that our report of 14 march 2000 outlines a strategy which should enable the european union to contribute more effectively to the sustainable development of these outermost regions and thus to implement article 299 (2) in practice.
and finally, the strengthening of cooperation with countries which are located around these outermost regions, in their geographical and political environment.
i am thinking, mr medina ortega, of a point you have mentioned, namely transport, a point which has interested me for a long time, energy, renewable energy, energy sufficiency, access to the various community programmes.
- the next item is the report (a5-0272/2000) by mr bowis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the commission's white paper on food safety (com (99) 719 - c5-0136/2000 - 2000/2082 (cos)).
the neurodegenerative damage to the central nervous system in humans, due to the consumption of meat from cattle suffering from mad cow syndrome, as was mentioned this morning, the recent dioxin alarm in belgium, the high levels of pesticides and herbicides in the environment, the presence of other microbiological and chemical contaminants with potential carcinogenic effects, generate a deep sense of concern and sometimes even anguish in the common people.
the vote in the committee on the environment has restored some balance by including nutrition issues and some important references to the role of small and mediumsized enterprises in safeguarding different eating habits.
article 2 of the treaty recalls that the union is committed to promoting a harmonious, balanced and sustainable development of economic activities.
- mr president, commissioner, the dramatic self-denunciation by the yugoslav president kostunica, to which my colleague also referred, of his own faults and those of the serbian people - something that many nations have never done - is a gesture that honors him and makes an important contribution to improving the climate in the region.
the commission is not it is high time that there was a concrete programme from the european commission to curb the greenhouse effect.
climate change is visible all over the world, and we europeans are not as bad off as other areas - i think of the west coast of america or even bangladesh.
the kyoto declaration must now be implemented, and the next climate summit in the hague must go further than our efforts so far.
i do not want to question or attack mobility - we need mobility - but we must change transport behaviour and emissions trading must not stop us from discussing the other concrete measures.
we are leaders in europe in environmental policy, and if we want to maintain credibility we must go beyond what the white paper says today.
– let me first of all thank the rapporteur, mr moreira da silva, who has produced two excellent reports on our current climate change strategy.
let me also express my appreciation for the continued importance the european parliament attaches to the global problem of climate change.
this debate is particularly opportune as key decisions are to be taken only four weeks from now at the sixth conference of the parties to the convention on climate change – the so-called cop6 – in the hague.
the european union intends to ratify the protocol as soon as cop6 is successfully concluded with decisions that safeguard the environmental integrity and credibility of the protocol.
industrialised countries emit most greenhouse gases and have a responsibility to show leadership in tackling climate change.
the outcome at cop6 should ensure this by balancing the use of kyoto mechanisms such as emissions trading with domestic action – supplementarity – and by addressing the need to demonstrate progress on policies for reducing emissions by 2005. secondly, we need to make sure that the kyoto targets are respected.
it also has concerns about the potential scale of sinks because this affects the need for action by industrialised countries to reduce their emissions.
while theoretically the protocol can enter into force without the us ratifying, it would clearly be the second best option not to have the world's biggest emitter of greenhouse gases included in the regime.
i am pleased to note that the commission is supported by parliament and the council in its efforts to build up an effective european climate change programme.
the opinion of the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy on this programme stresses that policies and measures should be the priority of eu climate change strategy.
it is important that this strategy is endorsed by all stakeholders and that is why the commission has embarked on this multi-stakeholder process in the framework of the climate change programme.
the environment council recently adopted conclusions on policies and measures to limit emissions of greenhouse gases, confirming the choices made in the framework of the european climate change programme.
at the same time they indicate some specific priorities in the transport, energy efficiency and industry sectors that should be developed, taking into account the environmental impact and cost-effectiveness of these measures.
these suggestions will be carefully considered in the ongoing work in the european climate change programme.
as you know, the programme is up and running and the six existing working groups – flexible mechanisms, energy supply, energy consumption, transport, industry and research have been operational since last june.
right from the start the european climate change programme has been a challenging integration exercise bringing together commission services, industry, ngos and national experts.
a progress report on this programme will be the basis for my oral presentation at the special climate council on 7 november.
the promotion of combined heat and power and of renewables, the encouragement of the switch to fuels with a low carbon content, support for energy efficiency in buildings, awareness-raising in transport, improvements in light-duty vehicles, measures to control leakage and the recovery of fluorinated gases are among the preliminary proposals emerging from the european climate change programme.
at the end of its consultative process, by next summer, the climate change programme will have given impetus and will have accelerated existing proposals.
therefore, this climate change programme is a unique opportunity to bring together all the elements of an ambitious eu climate change strategy and the commission will follow-up by finalising the most promising proposals.
on the green paper on emissions trading, i would like to thank members for having considered it so substantively.
differences of opinion on the details should be expected when approaching a new instrument in environment policy and i warmly welcome the supportive and constructive attitude that parliament has taken.
emissions trading is a new concept and there is understandable mistrust in some quarters.
emissions trading within the european union would be another policy measure that would coexist with other policy measures that are now in place or are being developed by the commission in the context of the climate change programme.
significantly reducing emissions will require a whole range of policies and measures.
for the purposes of furthering the discussions within the european union, the commission outlined a vision of how emissions trading would work.
while it might be felt that the green paper was weighted towards given options, the commission's motives are primarily to have an open mind towards this new instrument and to advocate a prudent, cautious, stepwise development of emissions trading within the eu.
it was this caution that prevented the commission from envisaging from the outset that all greenhouse gases and other sectors, including the transport and household sectors, should be subject to emissions trading.
i do not think that emissions trading favours nuclear power more than any of the other climate change measures that are being considered within the european climate change programme.
it is not envisaged that nuclear power will be included in an emissions trading scheme.
moreover, it is my intention – and i have already had talks on this last october – to involve the central and eastern european countries in any future emissions trading regime.
it has always been and remains the commission's wish that whatever the community does on emissions trading should be fully compatible with the kyoto protocol's emissions trading system when it comes into effect.
in conclusion, i can express general support for your resolutions and i should once again like to express my thanks and appreciation for the constructive efforts made by parliament to raise awareness of climate change and the support it gives to the commission on implementation.
we think that this is a dramatic consequence of climate change to which the social and economic system must provide some form of opposition.
even climate experts tell us that the weather in our regions is changing.
the exceptional rainfall of the past few days has helped to rebalance the climate of a year ago, when drought prevailed.
we need a defense policy, just to follow what the climate experts are telling us.
the role of the farmer as a protector of the environment, which is often neglected, forgotten and undervalued in the sunny days, must therefore be reaffirmed.
agricultural and environmental policy, as well as urban and territorial policy, are struggling to find a suitable place for these functions.
- mr president, commissioner, i am pleased that the discussion on climate change in europe and the world has given us the opportunity to talk about the real cyclone that has hit a large part of europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's policy on the environment is not only effective but also effective.
- mr president, in recent years we have seen an exponential increase in disasters in our territory: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the effects of climate change, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
we propose the same mapping now, in the hope that we will not find ourselves here in five years' time, counting deaths and reproaching ourselves for not doing our duty: the commission has also proposed a directive on the protection of the environment, a map of the european union's risk areas, a directive setting safety standards for construction along rivers and streams, establishing operational criteria for tree management and preventing the operation of quarries and landfills at risk sites, with penalties for those who authorize them and those who carry them out.
we must be convinced that the prevention of environmental hazards through environmental rehabilitation is the best way of protecting the environment.
the development itself, including rural development, must be compatible with the environment, that is, with man.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for some decades now, climate change in europe has been creating disasters which have not yet been properly studied and assessed.
it is clear that action of this scale cannot be carried out effectively at national level alone, firstly because of the size of the resources needed but also because of the very nature of the natural events in question, which, like those relating to climate change and damage from co2 emissions, go far beyond the limits of national frontiers.
in adopting the resolution we are proposing, ladies and gentlemen, we are not only calling for urgent action to help repair the damage, but for a longer-term policy to make europe an increasingly safe and liveable environment for its citizens.
it seems that the approach adopted by the commission and the council takes little account of the methods of cultivation of certain products which have characteristics, the specific features of a particular social environment - as was said by a colleague who preceded me recently - in certain sectors: i am referring to the tomatoes, citrus fruits and also to the nuts.
- i am very interested in submitting my explanation of vote on this report - to explain my vote in favour anyway - because i would like to ask you, madam president - as i ask myself - whether we are really sure that the climate change that is taking place is caused by man, by industrialization and by the emission of substances into the atmosphere.
so i would like us to really ask ourselves whether these climate changes are due to modern life and industry.
i wonder how long it will take for the european union to have the power to change the rules governing small and mediumsized enterprises throughout europe, and, above all, when the climate will change, which, in forty or fifty years of left-wing governments, or predominantly left-wing governments, has damaged the entrepreneurial spirit of enterprises in europe.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
discriminates between private and public education; it ignores the protection of animal health and rights in the defence of the environment.
the most backward and backward have once again beaten those in civil society and in the institutions who are fighting for fundamental rights to apply to everyone and to be an effective and legally binding response to new issues, such as the risks of science, the rights of new citizens, the right to a healthy environment, and so on.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in the next few years the success of that partnership will be even more important than ever and i hope that, at marseilles this week and in subsequent weeks, we manage to ensure that this whole enterprise has even more impulse and energy in it than it has had in the past.
the mediterranean policy is now articulated in a world of very varied interests and latent stabilization, and therefore must include several aspects: the development of initiatives aimed at maintaining peace - but not only, in my view, and i want to emphasize this - the creation of partnership projects involving northern and southern europe, precisely because the objective of making the mediterranean an area of dialogue, tolerance, cooperation and guaranteeing peace and stability cannot be achieved without a strong political will and without a sustainable and balanced social and economic development of the least favoured peoples, a social development of the riviera populations that will improve employment opportunities, in order to put an end to the problems arising from the massive emigration from the basin that now affects all the countries of the union.
but we can accept several of parliament's amendments which urge us to include mention of key sectoral priorities such as assistance for education, vocational training, environment, civil society and ngos, ethnic reconciliation and the return of displaced persons.
i would also like to stress the importance of the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment, which increase transparency towards the final consumer and clarify the responsibilities not only of producers but also of distributors in any withdrawal operations of products considered dangerous.
in addition, there is a growing need to protect the marine environment and to manage exploitable resources rationally.
a5-321/2000 by mr blokland, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the common draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on the incineration of waste (c5-0371/2000 - 1998/0089 (cod)).
this directive will lead to significant reductions in emissions in several key pollutants across the european union, despite the fact that the volume of waste incineration will increase over the coming years.
not only does it contribute to the fight against air pollution but it also covers the release of waste water, as mr lund has said, from exhaust gas cleaning and the quality of waste from the incineration process itself.
stricter emission-limit values have been introduced for new cement kilns that co-incinerate waste, as mrs evans pointed out.
i am convinced that the joint text strikes the right balance – a view reflected in your speeches yesterday – incorporating a high level of environmental protection along with the legitimate interests of all stake holders.
let me remind you that the directive is only one instrument in the whole waste-management concept of the commission.
burning waste is the final stage in the treatment of waste, due to the waste hierarchy, and the commission will make strong efforts to reduce and recycle waste and in its approach to an integrated product policy.
of course, the overall objective is to prevent waste in the first place.
in conclusion, this directive is a major contribution to the reduction of negative effects on the environment and the risks they pose to human health.
in its july bulletin, the european central bank outlined a path for reforming pension systems, namely the transition from the current system of distribution to a system of capitalisation, including compulsory pension schemes, which could free up resources and, in the long term, ensure the sustainability of european pension systems.
all this must be done in a climate of transparency and fairness so that citizens do not feel cheated or victimized on the altar of big business interests.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the use of renewable energy sources must be one of the main objectives of a modern energy policy in europe too, but this must be done with obligations and certainties which are naturally consistent with common sense.
hydroelectric power is important in this sense and has been a crucifix and a delight for the mountain peoples who have paid a very high price for their territory, who have experienced the beginning of local industrialization processes, linked precisely to the presence of this energy source.
today, this resource - renewable energy par excellence - must be exploited to the full: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the environment is protected, and to provide compensation and re-appropriation mechanisms for mountain peoples.
mr president, as we all know, the fight against air pollution is a very important issue, and is mainly due to the large industrial plants, such as the incineration of waste, which is a consequence of the waste produced in other industrial activities, as well as in other common, everyday activities of european citizens.
mr president, i abstained for a very specific reason: i think that this report has not made the progress in terms of the environment that i had hoped for and hoped for.
i voted in favour of all those amendments to increase the use of alternative energy sources, but i hoped that we could take this a step further.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report on the promotion of electricity from renewable sources.
i am clearly in favour of energy conservation, which we very much need.
but the elderly and the retired also have a great need for energy, possibly always present, always available to us.
i would like to mention, as an example of excellent savings, the case of the city of brescia, italy, where district heating, even produced by the incineration of waste, is used both to produce electricity and to produce heat directly which is then conveyed to all the homes of the citizens of brescia.
europe must call on the member states to improve their legislation on the environment, on building abuses, on reforestation, on the promotion of agriculture aimed not only at increasing the quantity of production but also at protecting and caring for the land.
it is clear that action of this scale cannot be carried out effectively at national level alone, firstly because of the scale of the resources required, but also because of the nature of the natural events in question, which, like those relating to climate change, certainly transcend the limits of frontiers.
training of human resources and recognition of the rights of those working in the sector; the establishment of the european maritime agency with the full involvement not only of the member states but also of local and regional authorities; the principle of responsibility for, and consequently of the possibility of compensation for, environmental damage, and not just socioeconomic damage, is affirmed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, commissioner, maritime transport is undoubtedly one of the least harmful modes of transport for the environment.
this is demonstrated by the fact that measures taken at international level to improve safety and reduce accidental pollution have certainly been successful.
(applause) i would like to thank
madam president, i voted in favour of the mckenna report, which is the conclusion, with the conciliation committee, of the community framework for action in the event of marine pollution.
in fact, this measure is like the columbus egg and i regard mr hatzidakis as the deus ex machina of this need to avoid the dangers of marine pollution.
madam president, i will not waste your time explaining why i voted in favour of the guy-quint report, but i cannot help saying that it is very important for the elderly and pensioners to know how european union money is spent, specifically the money used by the administrative offices of the commission, and that is because pensioners have experienced firsthand, throughout europe, what bad administration means.
the work done by the committee on the environment, thanks in particular to the work of our rapporteur, has been very remarkable in this respect.
the directive has four pillars, as has been mentioned: limitation of the levels of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide; the prohibition of cigarette labels - labelled as 'light', 'ultralight' - which are universally recognised as misleading; uniform regulation and, where necessary, prohibition of other ingredients and additives which are often responsible for increasing the risks to smokers and, above all, for increasing their dependence; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and their metabolites.
we have therefore done a fruitful and important job, not least because the differences with regard to the council's common position, and even more so with regard to the discussions which took place there after the vote in the committee on the environment, are, as far as we have been able to ascertain, so limited that we can see the real possibility of a rapid and effective compromise.
it is their europe, the europe of the market and the right of veto, that is winning, not ours, the europe of democracy and a sustainable future.
we strongly support the russian government's economic reform programme which is vital to improve the investment climate.
in this context, as parliament will know, at the last summit between the european union and russia, romano prodi launched a far-reaching dialogue on energy.
the subsequent action programme – to a value of eur 58 million – focuses on institution-building, on the rule of law in the economic field and on improvements to the business and investment climate.
this means concentrating our efforts on key areas like the environment – which has been referred to by a number of members – and nuclear safety, on kaliningrad itself and on improving coordination between different sources of funding.
we are acutely aware of the urgent need to tackle environmental threats from nuclear storage facilities and rusting decommissioned submarines, especially in the north-west part of russia, for example, around the kola peninsula.
the commission has taken a leading role in the negotiation of an international agreement establishing the multilateral nuclear environment programme for russia.
those negotiations are now at a key stage and we hope for significant progress by march 2001. there is also a pressing need to raise environmental awareness in russia.
this is exactly the objective of the environmental work programme for the russian federation, initialled last june in the framework of our partnership and cooperation agreement.
question no 1 by mr papayannakis (h-0864/00) subject: genetically modified organisms and crops since the spring of 2000, many cases of release into the environment of genetically modified organisms and crops in the cotton, rapeseed and maize sectors have been reported in various countries of the european union.
- mr president, i voted in favour of the trakatellis report, which, as we know, allocated eur 79.1 million for 2001-2002, of which eur 8.5 million for health information, eur 31.1 million for the fight against cancer, eur 22.2 million for the prevention of aids, eur 11.4 million for the fight against drug addiction, eur 4.4 million for health monitoring and eur 1.3 million for the fight against pollution-related diseases.
unfortunately, the committee on the environment has rejected this fatuzzo amendment.
i think this is a waste of resources: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it was with great pleasure that i accepted the task of drawing up this important resolution of the european parliament, which deals with one of the most important problems facing our european community: the problem of the environment.