the european union, the states, must not replace economic actors, but the public authorities must define the rules and objectives that will enable the economy to develop in a sustainable way.
this aid must be geared to the union's objectives, in particular economic and social cohesion, sustainable development and research.
the european socialists trust the team of antonio guterres to put our union back on the path of sustainable economic development.
at the rio conference, the eu commission carried out a survey in 1992 to determine what could be done in practice in our countries to protect the climate.
i have already mentioned the environmental arguments.
in comparison, i see the sums at stake for renewable energy, which is not only an ecological element but is also likely to have a considerable economic impact.
when you see the market share that small countries like denmark have been able to gain in this area because they were the first to go, i think it makes you think and that in the long run you really need to increase budgets for renewable energy.
a final word on the programme: i believe it is very important that renewable energies are rooted in the regions if they are to develop in the long term and where they will contribute to the economy and job creation.
in order to get 50% or more of the energy mix from renewable energy sources, we cannot just stick to certain hot spots which, in the short term, will be more profitable.
everyone knows that quality of life, full employment, better employment depend on sustainable economic growth.
the situation is clear and it is now to be hoped that the improved climate in eu-turkey relations and in greek-turkish relations will have a positive influence on the turkish cypriot community and that it will lift its refusal to send representatives to the accession negotiations.
any accident is presented as an irreversible ecological disaster.
europe now has all the assets to restore sustainable growth, all the more reason to match our economic and monetary objectives with greater social ambition.
for me, the first priorities are: employment - and therefore economic growth - and quality of life - and therefore protection of the environment, food security and consumer rights.
- (pt) mr president, article 101 of the euratom treaty is the legal basis for international agreements in the nuclear field, as is the case with the agreement on the accession of the european atomic energy community to the korean peninsula energy development organisation (kedo).
those who want to overload the machine with, for example, new fundamental rights in the fields of information technology and biotechnology and in the field of environmental protection and who consider this charter of fundamental rights as a component of a constitution of the european union, must know that they are thus serving the attractive idea of a charter of the union containing subjectively enforceable fundamental rights.
- mr president, a directive on renewable energies or an owninitiative report by parliament, what is the point?
i believe that this report, and the directive which is being prepared, should be placed in the context of the european union's energy policy with these three objectives: competitive cost, security of supply and environmental protection.
since 29 february this year we have had a common electricity market, but unfortunately with considerable distortions of competition which unfortunately are detrimental both to the cogeneration of renewable energies and to the control of energy, as well as to the forms of energy of the future.
the reasons for this are energy prices without internalisation of external costs, with considerable subsidies, which remain in both the nuclear and fossil fuel sectors.
firstly, the necessary correction of this imperfect market will be needed to protect the still fragile plant of renewable energy, and secondly, to build the foundations of renewable energy so that it can move in the direction it needs to go by 2030, 2040, i.e.
to be able to take on the bulk of the european community's energy mix.
firstly, environmental protection, but also job creation.
we know from studies, with figures to back it up, that renewable energy is more job-creating than conventional energy.
we know that we need to prepare europe for a global market for renewable energy and we also have geostrategic advantages in reducing our dependence on regions that are often in crisis.
first, it will have to be based on both the articles of the treaty relating to the internal market and the articles relating to the environment.
12% for energy and 23% for electricity.
on the one hand, we have the guaranteed price systems, which have taken the renewable energy industry off the ground in europe.
we therefore propose that the commission should make an assessment of the various instruments in 2005 and that until then there should be subsidiarity and also a restraint on the part of the commission as regards the regulation of subsidies to renewable energy.
the central idea of defining a new overall strategy for the european union in an open, competitive and global world economy has been achieved: to make the european union the most dynamic and competitive economic area in the world, based on knowledge and capable of ensuring sustainable economic growth with better and more jobs and with greater social cohesion.
the labour and social affairs council will review the employment guidelines, mandate the high level group on social protection to prepare a study on the sustainability of the pension system by 2020, apply an open method of coordination to policies to combat social exclusion and consider the future direction of social policy, with a view to reaching agreement on the social agenda of the nice european council.
the only points that are really controversial are the timelines for the liberalisation of the energy and transport markets, public services, the tax package and the powers of regional authorities in education and training.
the european council reiterated the importance of sound and strong macroeconomic policies, fiscal consolidation and sustainable financial policies, as well as structural reforms.
measures will also be taken to accelerate the liberalisation of transport, energy and postal services.
one of the most significant developments was the consensus among member states on the need to analyse the possibility of modernising social security systems and making pension systems sustainable, on the basis of a commission initiative.
we want sustainable development in all its aspects.
- mr president, the commission shares the view of the honourable member that the liberalisation of the electricity market covers all electricity, including electricity produced from nuclear energy.
on the one hand, as regards state aid for the environment, you intend to carry out a very thorough analysis of subsidies for renewable energy, whereas it is clear that at the moment this sector is at a disadvantage because of the lack of internalisation of costs.
in other words, the market share of renewable energy in the electricity market is barely 5% today.
in addition, nuclear energy accounts for 30% of this market and you do not envisage a systematic study of this.
i therefore believe that there is a complete misunderstanding if the objective is to make the logic of energy policy fair, to make it the same for all forms of electricity production.
i would therefore ask you to comment on your position because for me and for many people, and especially for the renewable energy industry, this is a position that is very difficult to understand.
in particular, the commission has made it very clear in its nuclear indicative programme, within the meaning of article 40 of the euratom treaty, that 'the development towards the liberalisation of the internal electricity market of the community implies that nuclear energy will have to compete with other energy sources in an identical framework and under the same conditions'.
the full implementation of the internal market and the strict application of relevant state aid and competition rules lead to the creation of a level playing field for all energy sources.
articles 87 and 88 make no reference to nuclear energy.
the cooperation of all the social partners seems essential to maintain a non-inflationary growth environment.
but it has already created a virtuous circle leading to sustainable, non-inflationary growth.
that said, since i share your concern for transparency, i would like to point out that this draft report and the correspondence that followed have been very formally forwarded to the chairmen of the committees on budgetary control and industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
i come to the report before you this evening to say that - as you have pointed out - all these problems stem from infrastructure, from installations which were set up under the euratom treaty in the early 1960s, under the aegis of the european atomic energy community, to help develop nuclear energy.
however, it is now clear that this waiting strategy - which many member states have also followed - is in reality very costly and that faster dismantling allows for better management of sites and the waste generated, as well as the available resources.
the commission has therefore decided to launch an action programme to deal in a comprehensive and thorough way with the dismantling of obsolete installations and the management of waste generated since the 1960s.
the final objective of the action programme is to enable the reallocation of the land and buildings concerned to non-nuclear uses, level 3 of the international atomic energy agency recommendations.
i think it is terrible, it is a waste of money and it is absolutely absurd, what some people are saying.
but it is not by means of the prohibitions, as devised by our committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, by imposing intolerable obligations on the european tobacco industry without taking account of the job losses, which affect women in particular, that all european citizens will be made non-smokers; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's environmental policy is not distorted, as is shown by the radical measures already in place on advertising and labelling.
the proposal to require european union manufacturers to comply with the same tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide standards for cigarettes intended for export to third countries is simply perverse.
it's a waste of time.
i am thinking here of a compatibility clause of the culture or environment type, which makes it possible to take account, in an appropriate way, and i emphasize in an appropriate way, of the specific nature of sport in community policy or in community policies.
in this respect, it must be clear that enlargement, both for the applicant countries and for the community, must be socially and financially sustainable.
- (de) mr thomas mann has invested a great deal of energy in a report on the proposal for a directive to establish a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation.
is it really necessary to waste part of the poor allocation of 53.45 million euros over five years on such an analysis?
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are some who are trying to put nuclear energy back on the agenda.
i think that the european environment ministers have so far taken the very wise position of excluding it from the list of flexible mechanisms.
nuclear power is more expensive than other options, for example the energy efficiency option, and every dollar invested in nuclear power is lost to other investments that are much more profitable.
the tokai-mura accident showed this, and fifty years after the civil nuclear power began, there are still no solutions for waste.
on the other hand, i think we really need to see the value of energy efficiency.
we can do a lot more to help the chinese, the indians, the indonesians, the pakistanis, by giving them the means to buy refrigerators that are low energy, because there will be 800 million refrigerators in the next ten years.
this is what the co2 emissions of the developing countries will be decided on, much more than on two or three, four or five nuclear reactors that we could sell to them.
- mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, what we need is a clear definition of what is renewable.
plastic is not a renewable resource, and neither is peat.
if there are no clear targets, there will be a distortion between countries that are doing something for renewable energy and countries that are not doing enough.
renewable energy is a topic that brings european citizens together at a time when europe is struggling to get people to embrace greater integration.
- i am of course in favour of the active promotion of renewable energy.
the recommendation of the competent environment committee of the european parliament for this second reading does not meet this requirement.