the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the convention on the protection of the rhine against pollution.
the broader objectives of the structural funds, such as job creation, greater equality of opportunity and the sustainability of employment and development, are only marginally mentioned.
the consequences for the marine environment, fauna and flora in this part of europe are enormous.
this is also true of the very concrete projects put forward by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, for example.
the municipalities and regional authorities consider that this is their own money, but they only get it back by also spending a lot of money and energy in negotiations and lobbying.
- (nl) mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the portuguese presidency on the energy it is putting into preparing the next intergovernmental conference.
we must therefore be particularly critical in assessing the suitability of this project in terms of development and environmental conditions.
does this european parliament support the ecological principle of producer responsibility, which means that cars, once they have become carcasses, are the exclusive responsibility of the manufacturers?
packaging is still a huge mass of waste in europe and a far too heavy burden on the environment.
for 20 years, the majority in this parliament has been trying to make european environmental policy greener.
today, under pressure from the german and french automobile industries among others, this ecological position is in danger of being tarnished forever.
- (nl) mr president, the european parliament and the committee on the environment, in particular, are usually concerned with critically assessing the proposals of the european commission or the council and with improving them from an ecological point of view.
today, in this same parliament, it is a common position of the council that is in danger of being eroded from an ecological point of view.
this is why waste prevention is essential.
a tedious conciliation procedure would lead to unnecessary slowdowns which would seriously damage the environment.
mr florenz also had to take account of his green environmental inclination and, in the background, had to make a compromise which was certainly not a common position.
this is not only bad for the environment, but also very expensive.
if these funds help to eliminate the backlog of regions, cities and population groups or if they improve health and the environment, my group is satisfied.
the results are generally good in terms of economic growth and infrastructure, but social and environmental objectives are not always approved.
after the accession of the new member states, with their 100 million inhabitants living at a standard of living one third or two thirds of the average of the current member states of the european union, this waste will raise even more objections.
in fact, it would be appropriate for these bodies to carry out an examination and to take account of the wishes of sectoral organisations and environmental movements.
my group does not object to the fact that sectoral organisations and environmental movements, which we consider to be of important importance to society, are expressly given a specific role.
this explains the flood of amendments tabled by the committee on the environment: almost a hundred amendments for second reading.
this takes a lot of time and, more importantly, there is no acceptable level of pollution by hazardous chemicals.
the main objectives remain the fight against further pollution of groundwater and surface water, the protection of ecosystems, the promotion of sustainable water use, the fight against floods and drought and the cessation of discharges of hazardous substances into surface water.
i think the environment committee's proposal to bring these emissions down to zero is a very good one and worth pursuing.
this includes natural underground emissions over which we have no control and emissions from diffuse sources which are difficult to control and which lead to substantial water pollution.
i would also like to say this to my spanish colleague: in the north of europe we often have to fight against floods and also against water pollution caused by industry, whereas the problem of our colleagues in the south is that often water has to be transported over long distances simply to meet drinking water needs or those of agriculture.
climate change, small increases in temperature, have a direct influence on rainfall.
this vision should lead to regional action plans for sustainable water management.
we must adopt a sustainable water policy and at the same time be realistic.
we must aim to phase out dangerous products by 2020. it's understood for the marine environment.
a list of 400 products with obvious environmental hazards has been drawn up.
it is technically and economically possible to approach zero emissions of these substances and this is the choice we must make.
quality has a price, but pollution may have a much higher price in the future.
the council has repeatedly pointed to examples where the fault is clear: agriculture, trade, conflict prevention, peacekeeping operations, fisheries, emigration, the environment.
article 177 defines these objectives as 'the sustainable economic and social development of developing countries, and in particular the most disadvantaged among them', and 'the harmonious and progressive integration of developing countries into the world economy and the eradication of poverty in developing countries'.
as a parliament, we are of course looking after the interests of our fellow citizens, but it is also in their interest to be able to live in a stable international environment, in which people's safety is guaranteed.
as long as the european approach to development cooperation remains a source of inefficiency and waste of money, it is better that this role be left to the member states.
- (nl) mr president, i shall not waste my time on the individual cases we are discussing today.
the strengthening of environmental awareness, both in romania and more generally in central and eastern europe, is at least as important.
after all, this is a candidate country and this disaster adds to the already existing concern about whether all candidate countries will meet eu environmental rules in time.
i wonder if the european union can pass on such costs to the environmental cowboys who work in the so-called wild east by exploiting the weakness of environmental legislation there.
particular attention should be paid to the sustainability of the measures and to the protection of natural biotopes.
small and medium-sized tourism service providers are able to ensure the harmonious integration of the offers of rehabilitation and leisure, health and sports activities in the natural environment.
for 150 years, postal services have been a public affair and therefore, like public transport and energy supply, a central competence of the national authorities.
given the ecological and demographic changes, we should encourage member states to pursue selective economic growth.
consumption of scarce raw materials and energy must be significantly reduced.
- (nl) mr president, commissioner, as rapporteur for the directive on port reception facilities, which is also intended to prevent marine pollution, i would like to make a few remarks which crossed my mind and which, in my opinion, were discussed very little at the green shipping conference in hamburg, which was attended by everyone.
it was reported at this conference that 5 to 10% of oil pollution is the result of disasters, which are very concentrated and cause many problems, but that 60% is from industrial pollution.
as an indication, natural pollution accounts for 10%.
what i would like to propose, not so much in the context of technical improvements, more effective control and better regulation, which of course must be done, but rather in the context of social initiatives, is a sort of round table meeting of those interested in the total pollution of the seas by hydrocarbons.
we must design the economic and the labour market in such a way that gainful activity is environmentally sustainable.
economic reforms such as the liberalisation of the internal energy market have led to unbridled competition and many mergers, naturally at the cost of many job losses.
- (nl) mr president, a properly functioning labour market with a sustainable balance between supply and demand is a widespread wish.
if we look at marine oil pollution from such disasters, we see that it's only one to three percent of the total.
if we look at our beaches, we see, for example in the netherlands, but also in other countries, that 49% of the waste dumped on the beach comes straight from the sea.
in short, this directive is very important because the economic damage is considerable, because the quality of the environment, the habitat of birds, fish, etc., which is very important, is deteriorating.
it's actually our living environment.
in this report there is an amendment which recommends that the whole range of cost recovery systems in the european union should not be allowed because some of the collection systems for port reception facilities do not take into account what is essential for the preservation of our environment.
polluters who land their waste in ports pay but polluters who do not bring their waste to port pollute but do not pay.
and then there's a kind of economic incentive to help in some way to get the waste landed.
- (nl) mr president, not so long ago many people thought that waste disappeared when it was thrown into the sea or into space.
today we know that we always find this waste later and often in an even more harmful form.
the large-scale pollution of the sea and the destruction of wildlife by oil tankers is still attracting much attention.
the interest is much less when it comes to the daily marine pollution from ordinary merchant ships and pleasure boats.
it is high time that we had as consistent and easily verifiable a regulation as possible so that ship waste is collected and treated in an environmentally friendly way in ports.
other solutions would probably be less favourable to the protection of the environment and that is why my group can approve this report.
i would nevertheless recommend to all those who value the environment and who are in favour of the polluter-pays principle that they vote in favour of the two separate parts.
the main aim will be to anticipate new threats in areas such as information and biotechnology, as well as the protection of the environment, of which man is also a part.
it is obvious that in a civilized society, waste must be disposed of in an environmentally friendly manner.
within the european community, waste incineration with energy recovery will be increasingly used.
if the dumping of hazardous and organic waste can be prevented in order to avoid harmful consequences for the environment, incineration should naturally have ecological benefits.
the development of emission standards has, at first reading, allowed a balance to be struck between what is possible within five to seven years and what is necessary from the point of view of the environment.
the emission standards currently being presented to the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection are a reasonable compromise.
the development of effective environmental standards is important, but nothing has yet been done to ensure that these standards are met.
we cannot then justify the emergence of certain diseases, such as cancer or blood diseases, on the grounds that the emission of harmful substances from waste co-incineration plants should not be measured.
if waste is used as an alternative raw material, such as glass recovery, the process in question falls outside the scope of the directive.
on the other hand, if only part of the waste is used as a substitute raw material, the process is covered by the directive.
as regards energy recovery, i should like to point out that last november the european parliament adopted a resolution on the integration of the environment into energy policy, in which particular attention is paid to the application and development of the best energy recovery methods.
the committee on the environment has therefore recommended that energy be recovered by means of combined heat and power in the case of waste incineration.
the environmental committee has asked for a measurement of the ammonia emissions.
a coherent position of the european parliament will be beneficial for the confidence of the citizen, especially those living near waste incineration or co-incineration facilities.
- (nl) mr president, we do not get rid of waste by dumping it in the sea or sending it into space, nor by incinerating it.
incineration can cause disease, air pollution, climate change and sea level rise.
at present, much waste is incinerated, but not in expensive facilities equipped with smoke-cleaning systems.
they are even closed when it is found that co-incineration of waste in the cement industry and power stations is more economical.
it is therefore important that incineration be carried out at the same cost and with the same high environmental standards.
i also thank the european commission for its excellent ecological proposals.
in july 1995, strasbourg was suffocated by ozone smog.
at that time, on the initiative of the green group, the european parliament adopted a resolution to halve the standard of the 1992 ozone directive.
but the ozone layer is getting thicker.
during the summer months, some countries such as denmark and sweden also experience ozone smog.
ozone is still a very aggressive substance.
there is no safe value for ozone, no matter what the world health organization may think.
for this reason the green group proposes that only 15 exceedances of the ozone standard be accepted each year.
this proposal goes a little further than the one from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
to achieve the levels of this strict ozone standard, nox emissions, including those from traffic, and volatile organic matter emissions must be drastically reduced.
short-term action is also needed in the event of an ozone alert.
- (nl) mr president, it can now be said that environmental pollution and certainly air pollution is a transfrontier problem par excellence.
these are emission ceilings for substances responsible for acid rain, ozone formation in the troposphere and soil eutrophication.
the main objective of this directive is to reduce emissions of the substances mentioned below to levels below critical thresholds and to reduce the risk of exposure to the environment.
these objectives are to be achieved by 2010, with an interim evaluation of the national programmes in 2006. the most important part - you have just heard it - and the most discussed is of course the table which shows the annual permitted emissions of each substance by country.
and if we add to this the fact that the environment is directly affected by substances such as so2, nox and volatile organic substances on our own continent, i can only support the commission's proposal on these substances, and i believe that the majority of our group do too.
i would add that the effects of ammonia emissions are partly local and therefore we can accept a lower ambition.
- (nl) mr president, in order to achieve the objectives in terms of atmospheric emissions imposed by the fifth environmental action programme, this directive on emission ceilings is more than necessary.
the fight against acid rain, smog and smog requires reductions in emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and volatile organic substances.
it should also be stressed that these emission ceilings are not yet sufficient to meet the objectives of the fifth environmental action programme of the european union and that a reduction in emissions cannot be justified.
there is a feverish agitation on the kosovo border and the belgrade regime is creating a climate conducive to major incidents.
this has often been the case as a result of vigorous action by environmental and animal protection organizations, actions which have very often been taken up by the european parliament, national parliaments and also, for example, by the us congress.
nor is the preservation of biodiversity limited to the fight against the extinction of certain important animal species, such as elephants and whales.
i ask the 15 environment ministers, including the five environment ministers, to show courage at the environment council on 30 march and to protect the african elephant once again.
- (nl) mr president, as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, i have been asked in recent weeks to look at the conflict between the united states and the european union, which has escalated to an extreme.
the regulation is important if we are to tackle the problem of noise pollution seriously.
the resolution of the committee on the environment, which is before us now, is intended to shed light on the position of the european parliament.
the aim of this regulation was to establish requirements in the european union to ensure that certified civil supersonic aircraft are also subject to the new environmental requirements.
fortunately, parliament has a codecision power in the field of the environment.
but we should not be afraid of this because it will then be easier for us to establish strict environmental standards.
as a political conclusion, my group believes that europe must define its own policy on noise and environmental pollution from both old and new aircraft.
- (nl) mr president, we want to put an end to noise pollution around airports in europe.
in the course of this debate, some people are again giving the impression - to my great regret - that it is more important to conclude an agreement with the americans than to protect the environment.
europe must be prepared to discuss with america strict common environmental standards in the short term, without however falling behind or taking the easy way out of a vision that is singularly shortsighted.
i think the environment is important, but especially if it serves as a basis for valid agreements.
- (nl) mr president, i would like to emphasize that this debate concerns procedural questions relating to the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms, gmos, into the environment.
but the discussion also makes it clear that the production of genetically modified food still raises a number of questions, which concern ethics and morality, public health and the environment, the opportunities for industry and research and questions about consumer choice.
we prefer that this civil liability should be included in the horizontal regulation on environmental liability, which has been long awaited.
we therefore have a duty to treat our natural environment in a responsible way.
there may be a danger to the environment and to human health, and in that case such a civil liability clause is more than necessary.
the christian democrats are playing a dangerous game: they are in favour of a civil liability clause for the directive on the dumping of hazardous waste, but as soon as it comes to genetics, they suddenly want to wait five years.
- (nl) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, i would like to congratulate both rapporteurs on their report and also thank them for their excellent cooperation.
secondly, energy.
the commission has come to the conclusion that there is no coherent european energy policy so far.
we have no rules on the institutional mechanisms to be put in place for the definition of a common energy policy, let alone on cooperation in ensuring energy supply or on the environmental aspects of energy policy.
in the context of sustainable development, a new chapter on energy policy will have to be inserted in the treaty, as will the corresponding sections of the ecsc and euratom treaties.
they have contributed to a climate of euroscepticism and lack of concession.
if they really bring their energy and want to bring it with what is available now, if they want to give access to their ports and their roads, then they have great potential.
- (nl) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy regrets that no attention has been paid in the action plan for financial markets to the problems faced by companies, and in particular by small and mediumsized enterprises, in financing crossborder activities.
i would like to ask the commissioner on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy if it is possible to set up a working group to investigate the legal and tax obstacles faced by businesses, and in particular smes, in financing their international transactions within the euro area in order to solve this problem.
i agree with the other colleagues from the sadec countries who are undoubtedly watching with great interest in our direction and working behind the scenes to preserve a democratic climate.
more money is being spent on education in the field of the internet, the electronic highway, the environment is receiving more attention, we are paying great attention to safety and social conditions... the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quota is not exceeded.
- (nl) mr president, noise pollution from aircraft is a very topical issue.
more generally, noise pollution is increasing alarmingly due to the increase in air traffic, especially for citizens living near busy airports.
mr president, however, it follows that we need a coherent approach to noise pollution in the vicinity of civil and commercial airports, because the individual member states currently apply very different provisions.
first, an approach to the problem at the source of all noise pollution and, therefore, also at the level of aircraft noise.
- (nl) mr president, noise pollution from aircraft is a problem mainly for people living near airports.
competition reduces the effectiveness of such solutions, while a side effect is that at other airports the level of noise pollution produced will be higher.
if we really want to do something to reduce noise pollution from aircraft, then technical progress must be accelerated.
the user should be aware of the real costs of air transport, including all environmental protection expenditure.
it must be clear that the most appropriate solution is to pass on the real costs of environmental protection.
we are talking about nighttime theft, we are talking about noise pollution and, above all, we are talking about sleep disturbances.
in future we will have a detailed debate in the committee on the more general aspects of aviation and the environment, and in particular on the community noise classification scheme, how we could implement economic incentives for noise pollution, how we could arrive at noise standards for aircraft.
it is clear that the noise pollution caused by night flights varies from one airport to another, depending on the topography of the place and the density of the population.
the use of air routes that produce less noise pollution and avoid sensitive areas during landings and take-offs.
a partial ban on the noisiest aircraft and the application of airport taxes differentiated according to the environmental performance of the aircraft.
the communication on air transport and the environment contains, on pages 34 and 35, an action plan with very precise timetables.
in the short term, rules allowing for the gradual but rapid withdrawal of the oldest and noisiest aircraft are, in the commission's view, the appropriate solution, particularly for airports with capacity problems due to environmental constraints.
and the best way to ensure the environmental effectiveness of these rules is to act at global level within the framework of the international civil aviation organisation, which is what the commission is doing, alongside decisions that have to be taken in europe alone.
joint motion for a resolution the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
each country is increasingly dependent on energy imports and much energy is spent on consultation and legal decisions.
but in the slightly more distant future, businesses could be vulnerable because of technical disruptions linked to such an expensive transport system, but also because jobs can be moved quickly to regions with lower wages, poor working conditions and lower environmental requirements.
the european public has a right to know more about the consequences of tens and therefore about the consequences of these on their livelihood security, costs, environmental aspects and speed of execution of the works.
we support the creation of an airspace which would include all aspects of air transport, from delays to environmental damage.
for when the interests of public service or the environment require it, we will not hesitate to urge the authorities to take an active stance.
these airports are constantly expanding and are a real assault on their environment.
new navigation techniques and less noisy aircraft may allow for an increase in the number of flights for some time to come, but this will inevitably come at the expense of the environment, safety and reliability of services.
in addition, regions near mediterranean tourist beaches are facing increasing accidents, noise, air pollution and the disappearance of natural areas.
my group is firmly in favour of this second opinion - a favourable opinion for the environment, safety and the interests of staff.
i am glad to see that the rapporteur is already prepared to take up a number of amendments in the field of safety and the environment.
the environmental consequences of all these developments are of the utmost importance.
the growth in air traffic is such that the progress made in emission values, noise levels and toxic substances is not enough to compensate for the environmental degradation.
the development of society can be hindered because artists are less inclined to the enormous counterfeiting that is there to put time, energy and creativity into new products and then the taxes have detrimental effects of counterfeiting because this usually happens in the black circuit.
in the interests of the environment, the obligation to use certain products for the manufacture of car dashboards could be enacted into law.
perhaps this will lead to a fruitful collaboration with the commissioner responsible for the environment, as i feel that in other areas of his responsibility he has problems with agriculture.
this gives us the opportunity to make some remarks on the environmental aspect of this project.
what is important here is to try to make sure that rail not only helps to reduce traffic congestion, but also helps to preserve the environment while improving safety, among other interesting aspects.
it must be said, and i have repeatedly said this to other assemblies, that rail is slowly but surely losing its environmental value, not so much because the sector itself is not taking any action, but mainly because we are not setting out specifications or not setting out specifications as regards the use of diesel-electric locomotives, for example, or the type of electricity used, etc.
what we would like, and we are already satisfied with the two types of speed provided for in the requirements of the technical specifications, is that energy consumption and air pollution should in any case be included in the technical specifications and that serious work should be done on them.
this is not only necessary to absorb the growing demand for transport, but above all to stem the flood of cars and planes that threatens the environment.
if they only increase costs and equipment for the ordinary user of domestic trains and if the environmental problems caused by cars and planes are not solved, the new high-speed lines under construction will continue to be the subject of protests.
nevertheless, we must ensure that goods and people reach their destinations faster, more efficiently, more cheaply and with less pollution.
even from the point of view of longevity, which some colleagues insist on, the train is not sustainable.
the project is not without its challenges: pollution, queues, increased risk of accidents, not to mention the nuisance for a growing number of inhabitants who see a constant stream of vehicles passing in front of their houses.
if railway companies overcome the obstacles to international transport by borrowing from each other's infrastructure and manage to make their rolling stock more sustainable, road transport can be relieved.
the commission's recommendation and the resolution both lose their grip on sustainable economic growth, which they have set as their main objective.
one positive element is the focus on the impact of population ageing on the sustainability of public finances.
each year, an integrated annual report on the economic and social situation in the union and a set of guidelines on sustainable growth, employment and social cohesion are produced.
my doubts are exclusively about the sustainability of this benefit.
this encourages waste of money, disrupts international trade relations and is also a threat to the internal market.
it is not only vital to tackle social problems but also to lay a solid foundation for sustainable economic development.
there is a considerable demand for research to support policy choices, risk analysis, environmental impact assessments, monitoring, comparative research.
all this to prepare or evaluate policy decisions in the environmental, food and public health sectors.
the money available must be spent on the needs of our 375 million citizens and the protection of their environment, not on the european parliament as an institution.
if we look at paragraph 18 and look at the buildings that parliament needs, we see that there is a big waste of community money.
this is a kind of burden-sharing of evidence which is not only applied in most member states at present in the field of equal treatment between men and women - and which is to be applied to all by 2001 - but which is also found in environmental legislation for example.
i would therefore ask both of them, on behalf of all of us, to lend us their energy once again, focusing it on political support, in order to bring the local forces to an effective final agreement.
the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment.
the committee on legal affairs and the internal market has doubts on this subject, as we have been sincerely informed by its rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
the environment committee's proposals should however allow such a list to be drawn up in 2004. such a testing regime also requires better information on ingredients and additives and the establishment of conditions for import and sale in the european union, and of course also for export.
and, moreover, the mention of the different levels of tar, nicotine and sometimes carbon monoxide gives smokers, especially young women, the wrong impression that some types of cigarettes are less harmful than others.
i tabled an amendment to make the environment committee's proposals on this subject a little more attractive.
the environment committee is talking about 40 or 50 per cent.
reducing the levels of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide is not less harmful to health, and sometimes the opposite is true.
tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide make people sick and cause premature death from heart and lung problems.
personally, as a representative of the socialist party, i would like to go much further than mr maaten or the majority of the members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection supported the green amendment to make such practices impossible.
in both cases, these events result in pollution of the marine environment.
the eu would make a much greater contribution if it developed legislation on environmental liability for dangerous goods.
as far as accidents involving radioactive substances are concerned, the environment ministers have unfortunately not explicitly recognised the problem and have not named it as such in their common position.
it is therefore extremely important to foster a favourable investment climate for digital television in europe.
madam president, my group is concerned that in a number of member states, including italy - where most of the installations are located - legislation on the storage of nuclear waste is only in its infancy.
recital c of the resolution of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy expressly states that europe has a high level of expertise in the field of nuclear decommissioning.
however, reading the european commission's communication, we learn that this is nothing more than the management of old nuclear installations and the storage of radioactive waste.
moreover, we have not yet found any solution to the problem of radioactive waste.
this means that the price of electricity produced by nuclear energy is too low.
the climate is terrible.
- (nl) mr president, as a member of this parliament, i have been trying since 1989 to create a more favourable climate for small and mediumsized enterprises.
nor the general climate and the development of legislation as uncomplicated as possible.
is the budget sufficiently in line with the social debates which are those of the european union, with the debates in the fields of consumption, the environment, animal welfare?
this also applies to the quality of the policy, and in this respect it is necessary to ensure expressly that the policy contributes financially to the maintenance of a high quality rural environment in europe.
this assault is directed primarily against the post office, the railways and the energy sector, companies with the power to show that it is possible to organize our economy in a more democratic, more ecological and less profit-driven way.
it was only when the ecological consequences of this policy became apparent that rail transport received new attention.
we must all together take care of public transport and the environment, and therefore of the democratic authority with which we have been invested.
if this had been done, those who today want existing railway companies to be supplanted by new entrants, those who want to offer cheaper fares by playing on social conditions and workers' rights and with less concern for the environment would have had less chance of succeeding.
these services will be cheaper for the user but more costly for society as a whole because they will benefit from lower requirements in terms of working conditions and the environment.
a ban on tobacco is not seriously considered, but a large majority in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy voted in favour of a ban on phthalates (plasticizers) in toys.
in the course of our debate on this directive, a question was raised which could have been raised on other environmental matters, which i think it is important to bring to the attention of this house.
this is what we must do if we are to achieve the ambitions of a sustainable transport policy.
we are concerned about other issues, such as the safety of passengers, the guarantee of employment and working conditions for staff, the protection of the environment and the protection of the railways against dumping and other forms of unfair competition.
efficiency, cost-effectiveness, environmental friendliness and sustainability characterise this mode of transport as compared to road transport and can offer a significant alternative in coastal regions.
a sustainable transport policy requires more, or at least other choices.
the means of transport in question, short sea shipping, has a reputation as a form of transport which in more than one respect is a solution to the negative consequences, namely the space-taking and the environmental damage, which we are facing in the transport sector.
we often hear that short sea shipping, and water transport in general, is an environmentally friendly mode of transport in terms of emissions per unit transported.
given the developments in the road transport sector as a result of the new european fuel emission standards, i believe that an improvement in the environmental performance of short sea shipping needs to be stimulated by means of a european directive on maximum permitted emissions from marine engines.
that is why we are asking these questions and why we hope that the commission will react quickly within the limits of the possibilities offered by the treaty and within the limits of the general climate of goodwill which the council showed at feira, which parliament saw and which the commission showed.
other speakers have already pointed out that an agreement was reached in 1998 within the council of europe on the fight against international environmental crime.
however, most member states have yet to sign and ratify this 'council of europe convention on the protection of the environment'.
in fact, denmark's proposal is to take ambitious measures at eu level to combat environmental crime.
as regards the danish proposal, i would first of all point out that it must be seen as a complement to the national approach to environmental crime.
this complementary legal framework is based on the international approach covering coordination, exchange of information, reporting of crimes committed, central registration and criminal prosecution in the context of international environmental crime.
in order to clarify what is and is not covered by this framework decision, it is very important to have a good definition of environmental crime.
in the case of the erika disaster, was there any environmental crime involved?
and what about the cyanide pollution in romania?
there was certainly talk of significant environmental damage but are the other criteria also applicable?
it would be good if this issue were taken up in the context of the white paper on environmental responsibility.
as for ideas that actually do something, such as making information available on the consequences of environmental crime and on sentences, i support them.
and for us, in those external actions, the concept of 'foreign policy', as i believe mr patten has very clearly stated, is much more than the classical foreign diplomacy as we know it and it touches concepts such as security, including a much broader concept of security, as the environment, as conflict prevention, as trade, as relations in many fields.
we will certainly need energy and patience.
these developments have enormous implications for employment, the rich-poor balance, social exclusion, the environment.
- mr president, strategic environmental impact assessment is a tool for public authorities to assess whether policies, plans and programmes fit into the concept of sustainable development.
this will help to integrate the environment more closely into the economy, since macroeconomic decisions must also be accompanied by a strategic environmental impact assessment.
it is therefore important that public administrations are fully aware of the benefits of avoiding environmental damage as much as possible.
it is also important that we clearly define which plans do and do not require an environmental impact assessment.
the presentation of policy proposals, including an environmental impact assessment, to public administrations is a good thing.
on the other hand, there is a great danger that too many plans and programmes will require an environmental impact assessment.
if extensive studies are carried out on plans and programmes which have little impact on the environment, this is wasted energy.
the inclusion of all the financial plans, as proposed by the committee on the environment, is therefore going too far in this respect.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing here with a directive which is intended, and there will be more of it this year, to combat marine pollution.
the crux of the proposal is, of course, and we have already discussed this, that ships have a duty to report and to deliver waste.
ports have a duty to draw up a waste management plan and to ensure that there are waste management facilities or organisations that carry it out.
all this to prevent the problem, the pollution of the sea, from getting worse and worse, and it's already bad.
a recent survey by the kimo coast watch still indicates that there is a growing mountain of waste on beaches, that the sea is still being polluted, that there are sophisticated technologies to incorporate sludge into the seawater and so on.
if we look at the waste treatment plants in a number of existing ports, we see that the discharges are actually decreasing rather than increasing.
officially, according to marpol and other conventions, waste will have to be released, but in practice this does not seem to be the case.
the percentage now agreed, at least the interpretation given in the commission's statement, which is 30%, is acceptable, especially in view of the revision clause which has also been adopted and which stipulates that three years after the entry into force of the directive a further evaluation will be carried out to determine whether there has been an increase in the release of waste or whether a situation has arisen which should give rise to a possible increase in the percentage or a revision of the system.
it is perhaps worth mentioning that we have been able to reach agreement on the 25% inspections we are seeking and on a provision for delays which may arise in the discharge of waste, with national legislation prevailing in this respect.
this means that they are not obliged to report, but they are of course obliged to deliver waste.
the conditions for the discharge of waste by ships in community ports have been the subject of much debate.
however, one major point of contention remained until the end: the own contributions of the vessels to the costs of waste collection.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for the great amount of energy he has put into this process.
everyone now agrees that waste and cargo residues from ships should no longer be discharged into the sea, but there is considerable disagreement about how this collection of marine waste should take place and, in particular, how it should be paid for.
around the baltic and north seas, preference was given to financing from a general charge for each ship which is intended to prevent anyone from benefiting financially from not delivering waste to the officially designated places.
in the mediterranean, on the other hand, the preference was for payment per quantity of waste collected.
instead of developing the two systems separately and comparing their environmental impacts, the aim is to find a single solution.
i am convinced that the common text strikes a good balance between the need to protect the environment adequately and the legitimate interests of the operators.
first, article 5 (1) does not require member states to set up separate waste treatment systems with their own financial conditions.
secondly, article 5 (3) provides that member states are to decide which producers, concessionaires or collectors are to be registered under the waste framework directive or in a register to be opened for that purpose.
the present text is, in general terms, an important step towards sustainable production and consumption.
this is a model for future community initiatives in the field of specific waste streams, such as the directive on electrical and electronic waste referred to.
but it is also very clear that such a sector has a number of negative environmental effects: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat noise pollution and air pollution and we must encourage the sector to take action as actively and as quickly as possible, more than is currently the case.
it is clear, however, that in tackling these problems: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
it is of course important that competition between airports does not harm the people who live nearby and the environment.
but we need to pay full attention to compensating for the environmental effects of the rapid growth of this sector.
(es) madam president, madam commissioner, i think we are all convinced that we have a duty and a duty to protect the environment and to contribute to sustainable development with an environmental policy that has gained weight since the treaty of amsterdam.
i support the commission in drawing up stricter noise standards and in drawing up transitional measures for those regions which suffer from noise pollution.
it would also be good if the commission were to come forward with proposals for economic incentives to reduce environmental damage.
without the support of icao, such a unilateral measure has little impact on the environment and raises legal problems.
in conclusion, i would like to stress the importance of effective management of the aviation industry in reducing pollution.
i therefore strongly support the creation of a single european airspace, which will undoubtedly reduce the burden on the environment.
i am not a lawyer, i cannot judge such matters, but it is a fact that environmental concerns have not been sufficiently taken into account.
-(nl) the use of the car for people and goods has become so obvious that we have not given enough thought to its consequences for many people and the environment.
noise pollution is therefore increasing.
the ball is now in the court of the road authorities - the public authorities in general - to improve safety and reduce the burden on the environment.
as long as they succeed, the car industry does not have to worry about reducing the pollution from their vehicles and therefore does not incur any costs.
it believes that noise pollution should be tackled by means of an 'open draining coating', a pavement which, however, carries the risk of suddenly becoming very slippery in the event of frost.
the choice is therefore between the interests of the automobile and tyre industries on the one hand and the well-being of people and the environment on the other.
mr de roo has very accurately demonstrated that the regulation proposed by the commission does not bring satisfactory improvements and that it is technically possible to reduce noise pollution by a few decibels.
they forget the negative consequences for their fellow human beings and the environment.
they largely escape tax and environmental regulations.
these measures in turn have various negative impacts on people and the environment, which would not have occurred without the competition from air navigation.
it is high time that the air transport sector also complied with the normal environmental rules and requirements we have set for all other sectors to protect people and the environment from noise, harmful emissions and the risk of accidents.
this approach will also create a much more favourable climate for effective anti-doping.
how irresponsible, on the other hand, are the russian authorities, and above all the country's military apparatus, in their treatment of nuclear energy.
to this great potential danger to man and the environment i add another one for the city of murmansk and its immediate surroundings, the freighter lepse.
since the early 1960s, this vessel has been used as a storage site for nuclear waste from nuclear-powered icebreakers.
he's the russian atomic energy minister today.
he dreams of another, much more profitable project, a multibillion-dollar project, russia as a collection and processing point for foreign radioactive waste.
we are also very concerned about the nuclear time bomb and the ecological disaster threatening the barents sea with the kursk and other wrecks still there.
there are enough international experts to help russia in the inventory of the problems and the dismantling of the nuclear waste present in the submarines in the barents sea.
the kursk salvage operation also points to other problems, namely the large number of obsolete nuclear submarines in russia and the nuclear waste in the same region in the north.
within the os council, two views can be generally distinguished: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of pollution of the atmosphere by nitrates and their salts is a very important one.
as in the past, when we deal with reports on marine and air pollution, we must distinguish between north and south, between big and small, and between policies aimed at profit and policies aimed at the environment.
this competition is at the expense of the environment and the financial space of the large cities.
moreover, the tens must include those modes which have the lowest land use and environmental impact.
the longer bus also makes for more efficient use of the roads, which means environmental gains.
there have just been some nice things said about the effects that that can have, for example, in terms of efficiency, in terms of safety, in terms of the environment.
i am thinking of the euro standards that will apply to trucks and which could change the relationship between environmental performance and, for example, rail.
let me look at a bus, a bigger bus and the environment.
in other words, i can approve the extension of a bus for environmental reasons and for a number of other reasons, but there are a number of side effects which are not really covered by this directive and which cannot be covered here either, but which we would like to draw attention to.
report drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
the three main obstacles are the environment, agriculture and the free access of workers from the new countries to the labour market of the old 15. i have drawn up a report on behalf of the committee on the environment on the environmental aspects.
the environmental rules of europe often had transitional periods of five years.
the eu now spends around €500 million a year on the environment in the 12 new countries combined.
to comply with all 200 eu environmental laws, the joint governments in eastern europe need to spend another €120 billion.
it is therefore understandable that they are asking for longer transitional periods, of 10 to 15 years, for the costly eu environmental laws.
this means that the environment will not be noticeably improved in eastern europe for another 15 to 20 years.
it is logical that the environment ministers of the new countries will be put on the brakes after accession, whether they are green or conservative in their political colour.
they will argue that they must first implement the old eu environmental laws before europe adopts new environmental laws or tighten up old ones.
the commission is proposing that the low-cost environmental laws, such as environmental impact assessment, environmental information, animal welfare, the habitats and birds directives, should apply from day one, and that transitional periods of five years should be introduced for the costly environmental laws.
to help the new countries, environmental aid will have to be doubled.
if longer transitional periods are needed, the european commission should submit them to the environment committee.
the negotiations so far have agreed that these types of extremely dangerous plants, such as those in lithuania, should be allowed to run until 2009.
report drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
- mr president, we may be inclined to think that the accession of new member states automatically implies that they must comply with stricter environmental and nature protection standards.
this may be true in part with regard to environmental protection, but it is not the case with regard to the protection of nature.
they also emphasized rail transport, which takes up less space and emits less pollution than road transport.
the state of nature and the environment is considered to be a state secret in some countries.
the emergence and growth of non-governmental organisations for the protection of nature, the environment and animals therefore merits active support.
any transitional periods that delay the fulfilment of nature and environmental requirements could also freeze and hamper policy within the current member states of the european union.
i am pleased with the broad support in the committee on the environment and public health and i hope that parliament as a whole will do the same.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal.
the commission has put its best officials to work on this task and parliament maintains its enthusiasm for this project, which can be regarded as the best way of underlining the fact that we have not been in such a favourable political climate for a century.
i am thinking of democracy, the rule of law, decentralisation, the fight against corruption, eu regulation, industrial adaptation, consumer protection, environmental measures and agricultural reform.
but it is a pity that we are not actually going one step further to establish certain labelling obligations also for energy and foodstuffs.
in this interview, van hulten rightly points out that only by addressing problems such as fraud, waste, but also the lack of efficiency in the decision-making process, will we be able to start with a positive agenda.
investments in infrastructure, in the environment, but also investments in very risky operations.
the environment in the large population centres of zagreb, rijeka and osijek is in danger.
i would also like to draw the commissioner's attention to the environmental benefits of soil remediation projects.
but this principle is certainly not always applicable to large or extensive soil pollution, because you will be left with the contaminated soil for a long time in the next century.
they would then be a bonus to companies wishing to make employment more flexible by always moving employment, with public money, to the regions with the lowest wages, the worst working conditions, the best land prices and the least stringent environmental requirements.
such aid may be essential for the protection of the environment, the maintenance of public services and the guarantee of an equal level of income for the inhabitants of economically disadvantaged regions.
i support criticism of tax exemptions for air transport which distort competition with other forms of transport, as well as incentives for energy saving and the use of renewable energy.
on the danube and environmental and health problems, i agree with what the honourable gentleman has said.
but one of the women mayors present at the meeting raised specifically the question of the environmental and health hazards caused over last year and we will need to look at problems like that because they pose a serious health hazard to many people in south-east europe.
- the report (a5-0270/00) by mr moreira da silva, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the commission communication on the policies and measures proposed by the european union to reduce greenhouse gas emissions: towards a european programme on climate change (pecc) (com (2000) 88 - c5-0192/2000 - 2000/ 2103 (cos)); - the report (a5-0271/00) by mr moreira da silva, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the commission green paper on the establishment of a system for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the european union (com (2000) 87 - c5-0193/2000 - 2000/2104 (cos)); - oral question (b5-0547/00) by mrs jackson, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, to the commission on the commission's strategy for the hague conference on climate change (cop6); (ii) the commission statement on the floods in northern italy and spain.
- mr president, greenhouse gas emissions are still rising, even though the european union has committed itself to reducing emissions by 8% over the period 2008 to 2012. against this background, we must look at the green paper on emissions trading.
the green paper is a first step towards a market-conform instrument which will cap emissions and in the long term provide highly efficient and effective ways of reducing emissions.
mr president, the ultimate goal is a cleaner environment.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our climate is already changing.
a few degrees warmer is fine with many citizens, but the warm current that gives us a pleasant climate could reverse at any moment.
then we in europe will have the climate of canada.
radical measures are needed to stop global warming.
china is already emitting more greenhouse gases than is sustainable.
after 2020, developing countries should also start to fight greenhouse gases.
energy efficiency and renewable energy are the way forward, both in the north and in the south.
after ratification, carbon emissions will be priced.
it is now free for the large industries and electricity producers in europe, which together account for 45% of co2 emissions.
i would like to call on the european commission to develop additional proposals to curb emissions in the transport sector.
and only then will breakthroughs on the global climate stage be possible.
the precise relationship between co2 emissions and global warming is not yet fully understood, but this should not be a reason for not taking action now.
experts tell us that we need to reduce our current carbon emissions by 60 percent to stop climate change.
we are committed to more renewable energy and more efficiency.
that means a unanimous yes to emissions trading, but it must of course be well thought out.
emissions trading could lead to a new form of colonialism.
the success of emissions trading will therefore depend on the price.
emissions trading must be fair and must be a level playing field in the sectors concerned.
the market must be used to promote sustainable growth and equitable distribution.
the hague climate conference is an opportunity for global action, an opportunity we must not lose.
good cooperation between rich and poor countries is needed to achieve climate goals.
equal emissions allowances for all world citizens should certainly be part of this.
in conclusion, i would like to inform you that i have received, in accordance with rule 42 (5), a motion for a resolution on climate change and six motions for resolutions on floods, in accordance with rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure.
the commission has admitted that in response to my questions in the committee on the environment.
-{nl) global warming and extreme weather events are increasingly caused by industry, agriculture and transport.
yet governments in the richest countries, responsible for most of the emissions from fossil fuels, have failed to drastically reduce these emissions.
member states themselves will have to reduce their co2 and other greenhouse gas emissions substantially by focusing on renewable energy, public transport and reducing car traffic.
nuclear energy is not a viable alternative either, because it also causes global warming, releases greenhouse gases and produces virtually indestructible waste.
i am very much afraid that the next climate conference will be diverted from its original objectives and that some will argue for a relaxation of the obligation that the rich countries have made themselves to reduce their emissions by 5.2%.
the emissions trading system may be an interesting experiment, but it is not a real solution to the problem.
the rapporteur sets out a number of priorities for strengthening the european business environment.
it is morocco's right to protect its seas against overfishing in a sustainable way.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
- mr president, the fundamental social rights, individual freedoms and environmental protection are not mentioned in the existing national constitutions or occupy a too modest place in them.
the draft charter can serve as an interesting starting point for discussions on the future of cooperation between european peoples by political parties, trade unions, environmental organisations, churches and many other groups in the member states and candidate countries to the union.
the charter also omits many points, despite the insistence of trade unions, environmental movements and human rights organisations.
i cannot accept this charter if it is not amended to place more emphasis on fundamental social rights and the environment.
the drug trade, the arms trade, illegal waste disposal, the deception of consumers with substandard products, banking secrecy and tax havens are undoubtedly contributing to the economic growth that we are so often told is necessary.
yet these practices are clearly contrary to the interests of humanity and the preservation of our environment.
an asem environmental centre was suggested.
we have recognized this as the most sustainable and environmentally friendly form of agriculture for the future.
finally, i wonder whether the wording of amendment no 14 by the committee on the environment is correct.
- mr president, when i was appointed rapporteur three years ago on the amendment of a directive on the incineration of hazardous waste, i had no idea what would result from that.
a small subject eventually became a large body of work by the merging of hazardous and non-hazardous waste into one directive.
i have been able to work well with the council representatives and the european commission throughout this period and i have been supported by the environment committee and its secretariat.
i would like to mention three reasons why the directive on waste incineration is so important.
firstly, the emissions of dioxins and other dangerous substances are drastically reduced.
thirdly, there will be a significant reduction in the disparity between incineration plants and waste co-incineration plants such as cement kilns.
but even if i am positive about the final result of this directive, it cannot hide the fact that incineration of waste is an emergency solution.
we have not succeeded in preventing waste and we have not succeeded in reusing.
it must be used in particular for sustainability.
pvc accounts for 0.7% of the total amount of waste incinerated.
the european commission's green paper states that the incineration of pvc waste poses a number of problems.
sustainable technology can help us do that.
finally, i expect that in a few years' time we will be able to tighten up the waste incineration directive in close consultation with industry.
in the netherlands, the regulations on the use of animal slaughter waste in animal feed are already quite strict.
- the president, the commission and the rapporteur are right to formulate long-term objectives for the promotion of electricity generation from renewable energy sources.
they have cost advantages because of lower labour costs and a lower level of environmental protection.
that could depress energy prices.
the logical consequence is a financial increase in support for renewable energy.
meanwhile, given the diversity of energy sources, a good definition of sustainable energy is essential.
for example, incineration cannot simply be called sustainable.
that is why i am proposing that the strict emission standards of annex 5 to the revised directive on waste incineration be applied.
i wholeheartedly support this because climate change is a threat to the flora and fauna of the earth.
as social democrats we believe that renewable energy should be given a fair chance.
sustainable energy can contribute to a fair distribution between countries.
sustainable energy also provides a solid basis for the economy.
the hague climate conference has just started.
our renewable energy targets are ambitious, but in the context of the climate problem, we are still modest.
then you shouldn't be tinkering with the definition of renewable energy to make it as easy as possible to meet your goals.
sustainable energy is often associated with small-scale solutions: every house, every rooftop, every village, a windmill.
that's great, but renewable energy also requires large-scale investment.
there must be some market for renewable energy.
these should be consumption targets, because renewable energy can be imported and exported so that each country can maximize its benefits.
coal and oil will eventually run out, and they also generate co2 emissions.
nuclear energy can cause catastrophes that render large parts of the earth uninhabitable and produce hazardous waste.
so we have to look for a source of energy that is already present in nature, but has remained untapped for as long as no one has developed the technology to extract it.
parliament and the commission are showing little ambition by only wanting to double the use of this energy in the next ten years.
everyone wants the greenest possible energy production, but everyone also wants energy as cheap as possible.
while clean energy remains an expensive energy, it will remain an elitist energy for a long time to come.
the environmentally conscious high-wage earners are offered the opportunity, in a liberalised market, to voluntarily contribute to cleaner energy, while for the rest, everything remains as before.
clean energy must be available and affordable for all.
i am in compliance with greenpeace's rejection of the vote on six points in particular, such as the incineration of peat and organic waste.
a strengthened and centralised police, detached from its environment, seeks its own priorities.
- mr president, the conference on global climate has failed, but progress has been made.
president pronk has done a good job on developing countries, but his compromise on the environment was not enough.
of course, forests are carbon-eaters, but when they're fully grown, this effect is gone.
the solution must come from energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.
fortunately, 14 of the 15 environment ministers agreed to this.
every citizen of the world has the same right to carbon emissions, not the americans 200 times as much as the africans.
only if equity is built in will developing countries join the fight against climate change beyond 2012. to achieve equitable climate stabilisation, the us must go back by 90%, and we as the european union must go back by 80%.
then china has to stabilize its emissions, and then india has to double its emissions.
to keep the world and europe sustainable, we need a major change in our economy.
the european position at the climate conference in the hague, which ended last saturday and is likely to fail, is marked by two very different views.
one view is that we must seriously adhere to the 1997 commitments to reduce emissions by more than 5% below 1990 levels.
in the second view, the european union failed because the green ministers for the environment of france and germany were not prepared to forget kyoto.
the united states produces the most pollution per capita.
their poverty has forced them to sell their carbon emission rights to rich countries who want to reduce their own obligations.
greenhouse gas emissions will then increase substantially.
it is a reason to take these realities into account in the follow-up to the climate conference.
madam president, we too are very disappointed that the hague climate summit has failed.
in october, when we discussed the proposal on emissions trading, we were able to choose between efficient and effective ways of reducing emissions.
the european union's rigid stance, led by french environment minister voynet, blocked the possibility of an agreement.
in reality, the chances of an agreement in the future are smaller, which means that we are further away from an adequate approach to the climate problem.
- madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: the hague conference on climate change has failed, and that is disappointing because there is increasing evidence that the climate is changing much faster than expected.
the failure of the climate conference is a wrong signal to the public.
many people will think that the climate problem is not going to get any better if international politics do nothing.
it also undermines support for renewable energy and energy efficiency.
climate change is having a major impact on developing countries.
we have been very much in favour of the polluter pays principle, but so far it is the third world countries themselves who are paying the cost and adapting to climate change.
commissioner, the statements about the failure of the climate conference were not very credible.
the climate conference will continue in the spring.
issues such as the bse crisis, oil prices, the greenhouse effect have a distinctly european component.
flora and fauna, especially birds, are victims of oil and other pollution.
that is bad for the sea, for the environment and for the image of the sector.
it is absolutely essential, for the sake of the environment, for the sake of safety, for the sake of fishing communities, for the sake of tourism, that what has happened now does not happen again.
but unfortunately, it is often about making as much money as possible, at the expense of safety, the environment and the staff.
double-hulled tankers reduce the risk of oil pollution but do not eliminate it.
flag states are still failing to organise their own inspection of the navigability and ecological safety of ships.
the fear of member states being deprived of energy can in no way constitute a valid reason for unilateral intervention.
the setting of maximum levels for tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide is very important.
the harmfulness is mainly in the tar and carbon monoxide and other ingredients and more knowledge is needed about the harmful, but perhaps even positive, aspects of nicotine addiction.
i hope, mr president, that this house will support the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment.
the strict labelling proposed by the environment committee has my support for both the size and the content of the warning messages on cigarette packets.
that is why we are in favour of the directive and in favour of reducing the levels of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide.
this willingness to compromise was also present in the committee on the environment.
the result of all that energy was 12-13 instead of 10-10 in voting points.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the establishment of a european environment agency.
in this view, not only banks, chemical companies and steel companies should be privatised, but also public utilities such as energy supply, public transport and the post office.
the planned protection of universal service with a compensation fund that uses private profits for public service provision is unlikely to be sustainable.
opposing this directive is also a way for my group to send a clear political signal: we must not waste our time creating unnecessary rules in europe.
the directive in question provides for the possibility of future amendment or abolition of that exemption on the basis of external costs and environmental damage.
for a multitude of reasons, such as noise, air pollution and energy consumption, discouraging short-haul flights, especially domestic flights, deserves a lot of attention.
i am pleased that the report in principle, thanks in part to the committee on the environment, has restored a number of important elements which, due to a combination of circumstances, received little support in the committee on transport.
but at the same time, all citizens, including the majority who never fly, can expect noise, air pollution and other nuisances to be limited to the unavoidable.
the agenda calls for the report (a5-0390/2000) by mrs gill, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision adopting a multiannual community programme to encourage the development and use of european digital content on the world wide web and to promote linguistic diversity in the information society (com (2000) 323 - c5-0462/2000 - 2000/0128 (cns)).
the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
the agenda calls for the report (a5-0378/2000) by mr de roo, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the assessment and management of ambient noise (com (2000) 468 - c5-0411/2000 - 2000/0194 (cod)).
(applause) it has been shown to me - and it was also shown in the vote by the committee on the environment - that the position of the green rapporteur, mr de roo, and the position of the epp group, a popular party which opposes noise, were so close together.
i do not really understand why the christian democrats, who supported this in the committee on the environment, cannot do so again.
so i am pleading with you to discuss it today and to vote tomorrow so that the environment council can take a decision next monday and tuesday and that we do something about noise as soon as possible so that our citizens experience less noise than they do now.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, more and more citizens in europe are suffering from noise pollution.
ten years ago, in the fifth environmental action programme, the european commission estimated that a quarter of the population was affected by noise from cars, lorries, airplanes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trains, factories and boats.
more and more people are suffering from noise pollution, especially at night.
the environment committee also wants to respect that.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a welcome one.
the environment committee proposes that it be made into a framework law with four subsidiary directives.
the most controversial proposal of the environment committee is that of developing a subsidiary directive on aircraft noise.
the environment committee is proposing concrete standards for 2006, 2012 and 2020. with increasingly stringent noise standards, aircraft noise around airports must be reduced.
- mr president, environmental noise is one of the oldest environmental problems we know.
yet, for a long time noise was not considered a serious environmental problem.
the number of people exposed to environmental noise has increased considerably, as has the increase in mobility.
the commission does not dare to set european standards, but is only seeking to harmonize noise pollution indicators at european level.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat noise pollution.
now that it has become clear in the committee on the environment that our wishes to go further cannot be met by the two largest groups, i hope that at least the rapporteur's moderate proposals will get a majority.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading lannoye (a5-0347/2000), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the council's common position with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive amending directive 95/2/ec on food additives other than colours and sweeteners [9662/1/2000 - c5-0425/2000 - 1999/0158 (cod) ].
i regret to say that the far too long draft resolution of the committee on the environment does not sufficiently address this.
i am not convinced that large swiss environmental organisations have been persuaded by the argument that tax revenues benefit the extension of the railways.
this agreement is attractive to some companies but negative for the environment and democracy.
the growth of air traffic is at the expense of rail transport and the environment.
what about the proposal to abolish as soon as possible all kinds of opaque aid schemes in connection with research and development, environmental and regional aid policies.
it is in volunteering that they can contribute to the transfer of experience and the promotion of cooperation in their living and working environment.