it is also important that there are clear indications and sufficient funds in the areas of the creation of quality jobs with rights, as well as the effective promotion of equal rights and opportunities, in support for the social and solidarity economy, rural development, small and medium-sized enterprises, the improvement of the quality of life of urban populations in disadvantaged areas, in particular in the social housing sector, with a view to sustainable urban development.
- (pt) in his comments on the commission's annual report on competition policy, the rapporteur points out that competition policy cannot be separated from social and environmental policy and must contribute to full employment, economic and social cohesion, environmental protection and consumer protection.
the rapporteur also ignores the main causes of distortion of competition rules, namely: the increasing concentration of enterprises and its consequences on the distortion of competition rules; the transformation of public enterprises into private monopolies with serious social implications, in particular for employment and the price of public services; the abuse of a dominant position by various monopoly groups to unacceptable practices in the environmental and social fields, including the dismissal of thousands of workers.
it gives priority to the area of freedom, security and justice, to food security and consumer rights protection, and to environmental problems, in the context of development supported by itself and not by others.
we cannot understand that parliament is confined to a mere consultative role and has no decisionmaking power over more than 40% of the union budget, at a time when the cap is increasingly being seen as a rural policy, as the main pillar of spatial planning, environmental protection, heritage and employment.
furthermore, the resolution is making a foolish contribution, through manipulation and victimisation, to strengthening the positions of those it intends to condemn, and it is also setting a serious precedent within the eu itself, which can only lead to a growing undermining of the climate of trust and mutual respect which must exist between nations and citizens who want to follow, in the spirit of equality and respect for national sovereignty, a common path, even those who, like us, are at odds with the racist and xenophobic positions which are currently spreading in europe, but who prefer to attack them by decisively attacking their causes.
on the one hand, it will be necessary to insist that social rights, environmental rights and consumer protection be integrated into the short-term negotiations.
it is therefore essential that the commission reviews its position, particularly as regards the award of projects in portugal, in order to create the conditions for the continuation of important work on the economic and social revitalization of urban and peripheral areas, so that sustainable urban development can be guaranteed.
the second concern is self-evident: it concerns the difficulty of determining water costs and pricing, particularly in terms of the integration of environmental costs, which is causing concern, especially among farmers.
this framework directive also contains an important promise: that by the year 2020, european waters will have been restored to a state identical to their natural state, free of pollution and dangerous substances.
the recent danube disaster shows, like a nightmare, that the long-term policy and strategy of ecological protection of water, however costly, is not a luxury for the rich, but an imperative for civilization.
secondly, because the common position incorporates some of the essential aspects advocated by the european parliament at first reading, in particular the retention of the promotion of employment as a criterion for the selection of projects and the reduction of the overall impact of products from their production to their recycling and disposal, as the objective of life 'environment'.
thirdly, we welcome the fact that the common position has introduced, for the first time, the development and spatial planning of coastal areas as one of the priorities of life 'environment'.
as far as we are concerned, the commission and the council should know that we will not give up our intention to give life the budget it deserves and which best guarantees the environmental results that such an instrument is intended to achieve.
firstly, life is the only direct financial instrument for the promotion of the environment in the european union.
climate change and water policy are issues of great concern to european citizens and have received considerable attention from the european parliament.
that is why we think it is essential to approve our amendments nos 5 and 6, which aim to establish sustainable management of groundwater and surface water and the reduction of greenhouse gases as life environmental objectives.
a final word to congratulate mrs lienemann on her report and to say that we will vote in favour of her amendments on comitology, because, if we prefer, as was clearly stated in the committee on the environment, that the monitoring of life be carried out by an advisory committee, we do not wish to contribute to the adoption of the council's solution, which is decidedly less good.
at the financial and budgetary level, in terms of debt, support for sensitive sectors such as food security and humanitarian aid or education and health, as well as in the fields of the environment, investment or access to information and new technologies, such as trade, while ensuring full coherence between development policies and other community policies and between them and those implemented by the member states.
we are not just talking about the concrete impact of our common policies on tourism, the environment, agriculture, fisheries and industry.
i believe that the idea of creating an observatory of the evolution of this coherence between community policies and cooperation and development policy is sufficiently wise and relevant; the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the community's environmental policy.
there are still many uncertainties about gmos in terms of their impact on the environment, human and animal health.
the rapporteur is in this context, by legally framing the question of gmos with animal feed and by recalling that they do not present 'any danger to human health and the environment'.
the debate and the proposals have focused on the physical, chemical and ecological quality of water, as if the adverse effects on other dimensions were only incidentally noticed.
it is therefore necessary to take account of the diversity of the member states' situations, the specificities of the climate, the hydrological regime and its variations throughout the year, and the social, economic and ecological effects of the application of the standards or even of their absence.
it is the concerns surrounding these issues that have led us to diverge from some of the proposals of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, especially those which refer to a rather restrictive timetable and to little attention to the social and agricultural aspects, which are very important for a country like portugal, which is experiencing problems of water scarcity and a lack of socioeconomic development.
in a broader context, i also consider the conversion of the debt of poor countries into programmes for poverty eradication and sustainable development, as well as the control of fraud and corruption, to be a priority.
that values dear to women, such as peace, fraternity, equality, justice, security and the protection of the environment, should predominantly guide life in the european union and, if possible, in the world.
a5-0016/2000 by mr varela suanzes-carpegna, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the second report from the commission to the council and the european parliament on the implementation of the 'report of conclusions of the interim ministerial meeting on the integration of fisheries and environmental issues held in bergen on 13 and 14 march 1997' (com (1999) 0270 - c5-0156/1999 - 1999/2150 (cos)).
a5-0017/2000 by mr katiforis, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on fisheries management and conservation of the marine environment (com (99) 0363 - c5-0176/1999 - 1999/2155 (cos)).
- (pt) we agree that fishing is one of the activities most interested in promoting respect for the marine environment.
but there are many other activities that contribute to the degradation of this marine environment: pollution from oil tankers and other means of maritime transport, industrial activity, the pressure of human activity on the coasts and, of course, uncontrolled fishing.
it is interesting to note, however, that small-scale coastal fishing shows that it is possible to combine fishing activity with sustainable development that is not harmful to the marine environment.
we believe that it is possible to reconcile a fisheries policy based on the conservation of the marine environment and the interests of fishing communities.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0047/2000) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive concerning cocoa and chocolate products intended for human consumption (9947/1/1999 - c5-0252/1999 - 1996/0112 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr lannoye).
- (pt) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the winds are blowing in the european union in the direction of the environment and the environment is being welcomed by the european parliament.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation is a very good one.
air pollution used to be the street; it was blending with the street.
so, to summarize, this is our entire ecosystem.
the setting of limit values for the four pollutants is a good step forward and will help to reduce pollution, combat acidification and the harmful effects of these pollutants on human health and vegetation.
why not accept that a member state can demonstrate that it is particularly disadvantaged in the implementation of the directive, for example because of its geographical location and climate, and that it suffers from serious disadvantages as a result?
the european union's system for combating air pollution is therefore being expanded, strengthened and refined.
the environmental policy of the european union is increasingly becoming the environmental policy of each member state, with clear benefits for all european citizens.
- (pt) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are too many projects and programmes financed by the european union which do not meet the objectives of sustainable development and nature conservation laid down in the treaties and regulations.
- (pt) the adoption of this directive on waste incineration, which will apply from 2005, significantly improves the current framework for waste management in europe, by promoting such important criteria as public health and the defence of citizens' rights.
i can therefore only welcome the results achieved, but i regret that no further steps have been taken in the restrictions to be introduced on incineration and co-incineration processes, since this directive1 - sets more stringent emission limit values, particularly for carbon oxides and dust; 2 - parallels the limit values for incineration and co-incineration plants, ending their previous exceptional status; 3 - considers, without leaving any doubt, that incineration and co-incineration may be used only as a last resort, after all other technical possibilities have been exhausted; 4 - sets very strict conditions for the overall management of waste, the location and size of incineration and co-incineration plants, which must be met before any licence can be granted; 5 - increases the power of intervention of the competent authorities in the event of non-compliance with the limit values by installations; 6 - drastically reduces the possibility of waste from co-incineration and incineration being used, particularly in civil construction; 7 - introduces continuous sampling of dioxins as a mandatory requirement for incineration and co-incineration processes; 8 - increases the participation of citizens in the choice of the location of facilities; 9 - ensures that an annual environmental report is published indicating compliance with the limit values; 10 - considerably limits the existing derogations for cement kiln installations; 11 - sets, for the first time, a limit value for ammonia (nh3) emissions, given the acidification of the atmosphere due to this chemical component.
the political nature of the event should not, of course, overshadow any of our concerns, which many colleagues have already raised in this house today (the environment, the social aspects and, above all, human rights).
the need to make a sustainable and multiannual contribution to the financial assistance for the reconstruction of kosovo and the stabilisation of the balkan region, carried out in the context of a review of the financial perspective, is reaffirmed.
we all broadly agree with the strategic objective of the lisbon summit to make the european union 'the most dynamic and competitive economic area in the world, based on knowledge and capable of ensuring sustainable economic growth'.
secondly, because a strategic debate on employment should begin with a substantial analysis of the factors of competitiveness in the european union, because it is on this plane that the sustainable growth of the economy and, therefore, of employment and social welfare, is at stake.
instead of high-quality public services that respond to users' needs, protect the most vulnerable sections of the population and create quality jobs, the council's decisions are geared towards accelerating privatisation to satisfy the interests of economic groups and increase their profits, with negative consequences for employment, working conditions, the environment and land use planning.
we urge the portuguese presidency and the commission to remain determined so that the favourable opportunities offered by globalisation and globalisation allow us to create our own model, so that the wealth produced can be used to combat poverty and can be better distributed, so that social cohesion, full employment and sustainable development will be - in the next ten years and progressively thereafter - the conclusions of this lisbon meeting.
it is clear that with these prospects and in the face of the enormous problems and needs of african countries in general in the fields of economy, environment, health, infrastructure, conflict resolution, poverty, among others, it is difficult, if not impossible, to establish a genuine effective and sustainable partnership.
we are also in favour of total environmental responsibility, since it is unacceptable not to oblige biotechnology companies to take the necessary measures today to protect human health and reduce environmental risks.
finally, in so far as member states and the commission allow deliberate release, they must ensure that measures are taken to prevent transfers of gmos' genes to other organisms in the environment.
i believe that the international community and european politicians must react, given the climate of intolerance and the constant disregard for human rights in angola, and i cannot help speaking out once again against this attack on freedom of expression by the authorities of that country, at a time when european-african relations are being discussed in the european parliament.
but these international organizations must also take measures to stimulate the primary sector, which is crucial for the model economy, in order to guarantee a sustainable solution in the medium term, by sending technicians and specialists to carry out projects in this field.
in addition, the failure of the last wto conference has demonstrated that the organisation is not able to meet the expectations and requirements of public opinion and consumers in certain areas such as product quality, environmental protection, social conditions and the protection of workers, as the report also states.
the multifunctional aspect of european agriculture, which is an essential concept of the european agricultural model in question, must be present in this reform, because in madeira, the region i represent here, the environmental protection function of agriculture is just as important as its economic function.
the end of banana cultivation on the island of madeira would not only lead to a considerable reduction in yield for thousands of families, but would also cause a huge environmental disaster.
as we have stated in our proposals, the creation of an internal market for supplementary pension schemes has not provided an adequate response to future demographic problems, as the necessary expansionary economic policies that contribute to the creation of sustainable jobs through the increase of the public contribution base are needed.
there are changes in quotas between member states, which occur every year in a context that does not take account of unforeseen events, whether climate or market-related, and creates permanent instability in the sector.
- (pt) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to congratulate our rapporteur on the good results she has achieved and on the fact that she has placed this report in the context of climate change in general.
from the rio conference to kyoto, the european union has always been the political leader of the climate change debate.
the european union will not get very far in this area by trying to worry the world about this problem when in reality we see that the greenhouse gas bubble, especially carbon dioxide, is on track to increase by 6-8%, rather than being reduced by 8% as agreed in kyoto.
firstly, because, under the green paper published by the european commission, this sector will not be part of the european carbon dioxide emissions trading system, since all greenhouse gas reductions will have to be achieved exclusively through national and community policies and measures.
the recently published study by the european environment agency shows that transport is responsible for almost 30% of the total emissions in the european union, and it is also predicted that the level of carbon dioxide emissions from this sector will increase by 39% by 2001, compared to the level of emissions in 1990. in the face of this extremely worrying situation where road transport is responsible for 85% of total carbon dioxide emissions in the transport sector, and in the face of the urgent need for action, the agreement reached in the conciliation committee on this scheme for monitoring co2 emissions from light passenger vehicles is to be welcomed.
this scheme is a fundamental part of the implementation of the kyoto protocol and will allow the voluntary compromise of the automotive industry to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from new passenger cars by 25% to be strictly monitored.
- (pt) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first of all like to congratulate my colleague, mr gilles savary, on the excellent reports he has drawn up on rail transport, a fundamental subject for the european union, with a view to strengthening the internal market, more sustainable development and an indispensable contribution to strengthening economic and social cohesion.
- (pt) the interoperability of the european rail network as a means of revitalizing and developing this sector at international level, of better responding to the needs of users and of protecting the environment, is of course worthy of our support.
we have already referred to the atrocities committed in the past in matabeleland and ... (the president withdrew the floor)
- the common position of the council on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles (com (99) 0406 - c5-0212/2000 - syn 295); - a5-0122/2000 by mr alyssandrakis, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission to the council, the european parliament, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions entitled 'next steps in radio spectrum policy - results of the public consultation on the green paper' (com (99) 538 - c5-0113/2000 - 2000/2073 (cos)).
- the next item is the report (a5-0119/2000) by mr alyssandrakis, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the commission working document 'strengthening the coherence of the european approach to space' (sec{1999) 789 - c5-0336/1999 - 1999/2213 (cos)).
- the next item is the report (a5-0131/2000) by mrs plooij-van gorsel, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission to the council, the european parliament, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions 'towards a european research area' (com (2000) 6 - c5-0115/2000 - 2000/2075 (cos)).
- (pt) in the 2000 economic guidelines, the european commission clearly defends its neoliberal positions, emphasising the stability pact and monetary policies, accelerating the liberalisation of the telecommunications, energy, postal, transport and financial services sectors, increasing the flexibility of work and the said modernisation of social protection systems.
nevertheless, it accepts the acceleration of liberalisation of transport and energy, the increase in labour flexibility and the ongoing process of budgetary consolidation, while clearly displaying its contradictions.
it therefore proposes an acceleration of fiscal consolidation, structural reforms, privatisation and the 'modernization' of social protection, recommendations already made by the european commission, in particular for portugal, with an impact on the liberalisation of transport and energy, on the flexibility of the labour market, which is unacceptable.
so how can the heads of state and government of the 15 member states of the european union claim to achieve a new strategic objective in the next decade or to make the european economic area the most dynamic and competitive in the world, based on knowledge and capable of guaranteeing sustainable economic growth, with more and better jobs, with greater social cohesion, without significantly changing research policy, in particular the funds allocated to it?
it was not until 1985 that the problem really began to gain media attention, with the discovery of a hole in the stratospheric ozone layer.
after many attempts at consultation, the main countries producing and using chlorofluorocarbons, the famous cfcs, with the exception of the eastern countries, china and india, concluded the montreal protocol in 1987. this protocol was truly a historic protocol because, for the first time, the global scale of the profound climate imbalances that could threaten the survival and health of people and the very principle of life was realized.
the recent report of the european environment agency entitled 'environmental signals' strangely sounds the alarm not only because ozone concentrations in the surface layers are increasing but also because the protective ozone layer in the upper atmosphere has been shrinking considerably over europe since the early 1980s, at a rate of 8% per decade.
this is happening at a time when chlorine compounds and other gases that affect the ozone layer in the troposphere have been reduced as a result of international agreements that have proved to be of little or no effect.
the production and marketing of compounds that attack the upper atmosphere's ozone layer actually declined after 1989. but given the long life cycle of these products, the ozone layer will not be fully restored until 2050, according to the report by the european environment agency.
that is why all the actions that the european union could take, all the measures that it could take to protect the ozone layer, are vital and cannot tolerate any polemics such as, for example, global warming and the 'greenhouse effect'.
if there were any remaining doubts about the effectiveness of the changes, in the case of ozone, there is no doubt.
the protection of ozone is fundamental to the protection of human life, plants and biodiversity.
the amendments proposed to the montreal protocol are designed to strengthen the protection of the ozone layer, which is a precious filter for life on earth, and to strengthen the control system for trade in substances which deplete the ozone layer.
the next item is the joint debate on the following oral questions: - b5-0489/00 by mr westendorp y cabeza, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, to the council, on china's accession to the wto; - b5-0490/00 by mr westendorp and mr cabeza, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, to the commission, on china's accession to the wto.
however, certain questions need to be raised and i would draw the commissioner's attention to the need to focus more on the coordination of the european funds with a view to sustainable development within the union and the real balance between the regions, which requires the promotion, as has already been said in this house, of alternative means of transport, rail transport, maritime transport, cabotage (which will allow the decongestion of railways and the animation of ports); the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is based on the principle of the european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (eahp) and the principle of the european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (eahp).
in terms of the management of the cap, it finally creates a management infrastructure that provides the technical basis for changing a policy that has hitherto irrationally subsidised the richest countries, regions and farmers, encouraging surplus production and environmental degradation, into a geographically oriented system towards sustainable agriculture that will benefit the most disadvantaged rural regions and communities.
and it goes further: this precious resource must be used to further the policy of economic and social cohesion, environmental protection and also spatial planning.
it only serves to create distrust when the climate is already sensitive.
the agenda calls for the report (a5-0172/2000) by mrs lienemann, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a financial instrument for the environment (life) (c5-0221/2000 - 1998/0336 (cod)).
better because it defined reducing the overall impact of products, from manufacturing to recycling and disposal, as one of the objectives to be achieved by life-environment.
finally, it was better because it defined the development and spatial planning of coastal areas as one of the priorities of life-environment.
despite these virtues, there were still four points of disagreement between the european parliament, the commission and the council, which were subject to the conciliation process, namely the budget, the comitology, the foreseeable fourth phase of life and the objectives of life-environment.
i would also like to welcome the fact that the agreement has made it possible to include sustainable water management and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions among the objectives set for life-environment.
politicians of all stripes must now reflect on this new philosophy of the relationship between man and society and the environment.
this is why the european union has been a pioneer in developing legislation on environmental protection, and has also been a key partner in international negotiations and agreements on the global protection of the earth.
the life programme is only a financial instrument for the environmental policies of the european union and its neighbouring countries, the baltic states, the mediterranean countries and the countries of the east.
but it is not the only financial instrument whose effects are felt on environmental policies: we know that regional policy and agricultural policy - the latter being largely harmful - have a huge impact on the environment, soil and water in europe.
i welcome the agreement of the portuguese presidency and the european parliament on such a fundamental instrument for the european union's environmental policy as the water framework directive.
therefore, given that life is the only instrument which directly promotes an environmental policy of the european union, and with appreciable results, it is regrettable that the reference budget for life-iii was set at eur 640 million, which is only eur 27 million more than the common position of the commission and the council had foreseen, and therefore far from the eur 850 million proposed by the european parliament at first and second reading.
the same applies to the proposals on employment and the environment.
it is clear that the importance of this is far from being limited to the economic aspect: there are countless other dimensions of social and environmental interest, such as soil protection, the fight against erosion, the preservation of aquifers, biodiversity, the regularity of the climate, etc.
- (pt) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, forests play a vital role in maintaining ecological balance and are a renewable resource, albeit only in the long term.
biodiversity is also affected, and the situation of various plant species is even worrying.
the climate phenomenon that gave rise to the sahara desert extends beyond the mediterranean sea and is literally projected on the iberian, italic and balkan peninsulas.
but we also know that health experts recommend that for at least five months, children should be kept indoors, protected from the outside world and, above all, raised in a supportive psychosocial environment that provides the balance needed for safe growth because they need their parents.
in pursuit of the proposed aims, it is still essential to encourage better dialogue, interconnection and coordination between health and safety technicians at workplaces, in order to achieve a better working environment for pregnant women.
- (pt) this report provides for amendments to the existing regulations on the protection of community forests against air pollution and fires.
- (pt) following the conclusions of the european summit in lisbon on 23 and 24 march, which decided to accelerate liberalisation in sectors such as gas, electricity, postal services and transport, the european commissioner for energy presented a package of measures to accelerate liberalisation in the electricity sector, including the implementation of consultation mechanisms capable of overcoming any bottlenecks in liberalisation and negotiating access to the community market with third countries.
as you know, at the european council in santa maria da feira, the commission was asked to present a report by march 2001 on the evolution of energy markets in the context of the lisbon strategy, so that progress in the liberalisation of the electricity market could be assessed at the stockholm summit in march 2001. thus, with the support of the various governments, and during the portuguese presidency, various pressure mechanisms were strengthened in order to accelerate the process already under way with the electricity directive of december 1996, which provided for the opening up of the market in stages, gradually up to 2003; as for the 1998 natural gas directive, it provides for the last phase of opening up of this sector in 2008, which has serious consequences for portugal, in particular for edp, its workers and portuguese consumers.
i would also like to commend the danish initiative to approve a framework decision on the fight against serious environmental crime.
i would also like to mention one of the latest eurobarometer surveys which confirms that the environment is one of the major concerns of the citizens of our european union, alongside safety, health and unemployment.
we have an obligation to respond to these concerns, to provide a response which can guarantee the protection of the environment and the health of citizens, by improving their quality of life.
we must recognize that the european union has made significant progress in the field of the environment over the last five years.
today, even from the point of view of the treaties, the achievement of balanced and sustainable development is already well established.
and, according to the tampere conclusions, environmental crime is one of the specifically targeted areas where efforts should be concentrated in order to agree on common definitions, compensation and sanctions between national criminal laws.
the need for joint action by the member states is thus felt in order to introduce criminal protection of the environment.
it is therefore necessary to implement concerted measures for the protection of the environment in the field of criminal law which are common throughout europe.
furthermore, as mrs schörling has already mentioned, there must also be comprehensive preventive action whereby member states ensure that undertakings whose activities involve a major risk to the environment and may have negative effects on public health are well informed of the environmental consequences and that they take appropriate safety and precautionary measures in the course of their activities.
the means of combating serious environmental crime must be strengthened and coordinated between the member states.
finally, i would like to appeal to the member states which have not yet signed the 1998 council of europe convention on the protection of the environment to adopt as soon as possible, in accordance with their national law, the measures necessary for the signature of this convention.
i would begin by highlighting and supporting the innovations introduced in this agreement by devoting 50% of the total european union support to specific actions aimed at the sustainable development of the sector.
the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - b5-0704/2000 by mr sakellariou and others, on behalf of the pse group, on nuclear submarines; - b5-0707/2000 by mr belder, on behalf of the edd group, on the sinking of the kursk submarine and the danger of nuclear pollution in the former soviet union; - b5-0709/2000 by mr thors and mr väyrynen, on behalf of the eldr group, on the sinking of the submarine kursk and the danger of nuclear pollution in the former soviet union; - b5-0717/2000 by mr posselt and mr oostlander, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the sinking of the nuclear submarine kursk; - b5-0725/2000 by mrs schroedter and others, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on the danger of nuclear submarines; - b5-0736/2000 by mrs muscardini, on behalf of the uen group, on incidents involving nuclear submarines; - b5-0738/2000 by mr sjöstedt and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the sinking of nuclear submarines.
since the famous 1907 survey in the united states, which identified, compulsory registration, cause of death, age of the employer, age of the worker, employer, name, circumstance, accident, are studied to define costs and burdens that allow better protect workers ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
- the next item is the report (a5-0216/00) by mr fernández martín, on behalf of the parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on measures to promote the conservation and sustainable management of tropical forests and other forests in developing countries (c5-0284/2000 - 1999/0015 (cod)).
the difficulties that need to be overcome quickly in the various countries of the european union begin with the administrative aspects, such as the bureaucracy, which is often useless and consumes time, energy and money, and end with its financing.
finally, the environment and crossborder pollution problems arising from hungary's geographical situation are highlighted.
the pollution of the danube and tisza rivers by cyanide discharges from romania is a classic example of this situation.
i am aware that portugal has already submitted applications that exceed the cohesion fund, both in the transport and environmental sections.
failure to do so will inevitably lead to 'financial engineering', redistributions and cuts in both general expenditure, social and environmental expenditure and cooperation, and it is certain that the appropriations for the balkans will nevertheless remain insufficient.
the experience of almost a decade and the new challenges posed by the evolution of the common agricultural policy suggest a review of these programmes in order to maintain the capacity of these regions to survive in the new competitive environment.
with this vote i do not intend to support any initiative which would put an end to the atmosphere of battle between large and small countries in which the debate on institutional reform has been taking place, a climate which the french presidency has unfortunately been one of the main instigators of.
the european parliament calls for measures to be taken in various fields, from agriculture to fisheries, from the environment to transport and energy, and from the information society to the information society, with the necessary budgetary support.
- (pt) this report seems to us to be most timely in view of the need to give an objective and rapid translation to article 299 (2) of the treaty on european union, and we subscribe, in the main, to its guidelines for the sustainable development of the outermost regions.
it is a critical moment, secondly, because at the domestic level, because of the lack of implementation of policies and measures within the member states, such as energy efficiency, the promotion of renewable energy, taxation on energy and greenhouse gases, we are diverging and not converging on the reduction commitments set out in kyoto.
in this extraordinarily demanding context, we welcome the commission's initiative to present jointly the green paper on emissions trading and the communication 'towards a european agenda for climate change'.
let us start by looking at the green paper on emissions trading.
this green paper launched the debate on the architecture of a future emissions trading system in the european union.
the commission has defined a hard core of assumptions for the start of the system: the system should be based on a learning by doing approach, should start in 2005 and should, in a first phase, be limited to carbon dioxide and large point sources.
let me highlight three: firstly, this system will provide practical learning and economic preparation for sectors, companies and member states to start the international emissions trading system in 2008. secondly, this system will help to make it easier to correct the situation of non-compliance which is currently found in most member states.
firstly, the green paper should have set quantified greenhouse gas reduction targets to be met by the emissions trading system, that is, the green paper should have said what percentage of the greenhouse gas reduction would be attributed to emissions trading.
secondly, we believe that the green paper should not have avoided analysing whether the emissions trading system would give nuclear energy competitive advantages.
thirdly, we believe it is essential that in future the system should cover some sectors which the green paper has already excluded, namely transport, which is the sector where emissions are growing at the fastest rate.
fourthly, the commission should not have set direct emissions trading between companies as the only possible option in the debate on the scope of the system.
fifthly, we consider it essential to involve the countries applying for membership of the european union in the emissions trading system as soon as possible.
we therefore call on the commission to present in a future communication a plan for how to involve these countries in the emissions trading system.
sixth and lastly, we believe that, as regards the method and allocation of emission allowances, auctioning can more easily ensure the desired environmental outcome, non-distortion of competition and simplicity of the system than grandfathering.
let us now look at the communication on the european programme on climate change.
given the commitment and quality of the green paper on emissions trading, the communication on policies and measures, the communication 'towards a european agenda for climate change' is a disappointment.
it is also disappointing because this communication results in an imbalance of treatment between the different economic sectors; in particular, it was hoped that those sectors which were not included in the emissions trading system would see an ambitious approach adopted with well-defined commitments in the other communication, the communication on policies and measures.
we therefore call on the commission to complete the european programme on climate change, iccp, as a matter of urgency and to come forward six months after cop6 with a set of specific policy and action proposals defining, by economic sector and by policy and measure, quantitative greenhouse gas reduction commitments.
i would like to conclude, mr president, by thanking all the members, in particular the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur, for having enabled us to reach a broad consensus on the strategy to halt climate change.
a5-0309/2000 by mrs gonzález álvarez, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on general product safety (com (2000) 139 - c5-0224/2000 - 2000/0073 (cod)).
all measures are welcome to increase confidence and to ensure that the european product is produced and distributed with due regard for workers' health, social rights, the environment, fair competition and high safety standards.
a5-0320/2000 by mrs rothe, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the promotion of electricity produced from renewable energy sources in the internal electricity market (com (2000) 279 - c5-0281/2000 - 2000/0116 (cod)).
and i cannot but regret that some of the 15 ministers have been more concerned with running to the press conferences than with creating a real spirit of unity to ensure a global policy on climate change.
if we are to be very clear and we have to take stock, we can say that of the three parties only one has tried to reach an agreement, has tried to have a global policy on climate change: the european union.
we are not the only ones to say this, the french presidency, through minister pierre moscovici, has also recently acknowledged in an interview that the positions taken this year, especially by president jacques chirac and minister joschka fischer, on the future organization of the union have had the direct effect of intensifying a climate of distrust between small and large states which will inevitably be reflected in the results of the nice european council.
it is undoubtedly desirable to strengthen cooperation with indonesia, and this should include support for the indonesian authorities in areas such as improving administration, combating fraud and corruption, the judicial system, protecting and improving the environment and humanitarian support for displaced persons and refugees.
and to do that we must know how to choose our priorities, we cannot mix environmental issues, social policy issues, economic policy issues with the key problem of respect for democracy and human rights, which must clearly be a political priority in our relationship with indonesia.
in my region, among the many functions of agriculture, the one that is becoming increasingly important is environmental protection.
in other words, the end of bananas in madeira would be at least as serious from an economic point of view (serious loss of income for thousands of farmers) as from an environmental point of view (destruction of the subtropical landscape and the rural world, worsening erosion).
mr president, without this important environmental aspect, madeira will have no chance of sustaining its 'golden goose', which is tourism.
mr president, as is well known, this common organization of the market in bananas is of particular importance for the acp producing countries and for some of the outermost regions, such as madeira, both in terms of production and employment and in terms of the environment, in the maintenance of a productive green area, a fundamental issue for regional development itself.
the solution to the problem of the future of the common organization of the market by means of a uniform import regime would entail a serious risk of a fall in the price of bananas on the community market, which would require an increase in the compensatory aid granted to producers in the outermost regions and would entail a revision of the financial perspectives themselves approved under agenda 2000 for the financing of the cap, so it is good that the commission continues not to insist on its proposals, otherwise banana production would end, with serious social, economic and environmental consequences, as our rapporteur, mr dary, points out.
in this report the rapporteur is in favour of extending the six programmes until 31 december 2002, although he rightly criticises the commission's legislative programming, which is the source of this problem, since four of them are due to expire at the end of this year and two at the end of 2001. these are important programmes aimed at improving public health, combating cancer, preventing aids, combating drug addiction, sanitary control and pollution-related diseases.
they are left with hours lost in city traffic and no time to spend with their children; they work without conditions and have no green spaces and leisure to rest; they waste days in hospital queues and struggle with the bureaucracy of the administrative services of the state.
environmental noise must be introduced into this sorry picture.
unfortunately, more and more european citizens are affected by environmental noise.
i therefore agree with the rapporteur, mr de roo, when he proposes that we should waste no more time and turn this directive on noise assessment and management into a binding framework directive.
- mr president, the precautionary principle has become one of the citizens' greatest allies in the defence of public health and the environment.
since its creation, the cohesion fund has been a notable example of significant impact in two areas of community interest - environment and trans-european networks - of the effective implementation of the community budget as well as of the highest execution rates across the community budget.