nevertheless, it is worth pointing out that whenever we take a decision of this kind, it is good for the environment, in this case because it will create better conditions for the functioning of the internal market.
europe must be modernised, adapted to the laws of entrepreneurship, to a more competitive environment, for the benefit of consumers and businesses alike.
perhaps it is time we started thinking about the creation of a common environmental authority that could deal with this kind of criminal activity.
as a swedish christian democrat, i believe that the european union can contribute to a stable peace in the middle east, one that is deeply rooted in democracy, political pluralism, respect for human rights, the independence of the judiciary, and a social and ecological market economy.
it is a fact that these substances are now being detected; we're finding increasing concentrations of it in humans and in the environment.
- (sv) mr president, waste from end-of-life vehicles is one of the major environmental problems, both in terms of the quantity of waste and the emission of substances which are dangerous to the environment.
if amendments were to be adopted which significantly weaken the directive, this would have very negative consequences, not only from the point of view of the environment, but also for the credibility of the european parliament on environmental problems.
i must take this opportunity to stress how important it is that all such directives be dealt with in future under the procedure laid down in article 152, since food safety and environmental issues require a coherent policy, a global perspective.
however, there is another important environmental principle, namely the principle of exchange.
it costs a little more, but it has no impact on the environment.
fifthly, the policy of protecting water quality and the measures to stop the pollution of groundwater must be equally clear and precise.
in these circumstances, our group will be able to vote in favour of several of the amendments proposed by the rapporteur, mrs lienemann, as adopted by the committee on the environment.
i think that amendment no 43 by the committee on the environment provides for the necessary exceptions, and that the wording on this subject is even more satisfactory in amendment no 105 by the green group.
overall, i think that the environment committee's proposal, as presented in the lienemann report, is valid and can provide a good basis for reaching a difficult compromise.
let me remind you that the most serious environmental problems we face today - climate change, the destruction of virgin forests, the depletion of fish stocks - still affect resources that we share and that are absolutely essential to us, but which are also, in a way, uncontrolled.
i am, in fact, drawing the conclusion that you agree with the need for an action plan - an action plan that aims to involve more women in work in specific environmental fields.
let me also say that the beijing declaration underlined the importance of having the institutional capacity to integrate the gender perspective into any environmental programme.
i would naturally like to know whether the commissioner is prepared to include this idea of equality in environmental policy and the programmes that follow from it.
that is why i call on members of parliament to understand that strong demands for a clean environment mean greater realism in the long term.
the aim is to make the system more employment-friendly, to make the pension system sustainable in the long term, to promote social integration and to guarantee a high and sustainable level of health protection.
i belong to a party which once believed in central management, five-year plans and sustainable convergence objectives.
these include climate issues, biodiversity issues, public health issues, and so on.
i think it is a pure coincidence, but the environment commissioner should of course be part of it.
as members of the swedish liberal party, we see in european integration the possibility of finding solutions to problems that transcend national borders, such as the environment, trade issues, movement between countries, human rights and conflict resolution.
the fact that 100,000 m3 of water contaminated with cyanide and large quantities of heavy metals have escaped into the ecosystem will have enormous consequences for the population of these regions, as well as for fauna and flora, agriculture, tourism, the whole of the ecosystems and biological diversity for a very long time.
i know that the commissioner responsible for the environment, mrs margot wallström, has left strasbourg to go to romania and see what has happened there.
my group hopes that mrs wallström will promise to help the people affected by the disaster in the form of financial aid and environmental expertise, and that the eu will help to carry out the huge clean-up work that will be needed.
this accident highlights a point which has long been called for by the greens, namely the need to set up a civil protection task force which can be deployed quickly in the context of such environmental and industrial disasters.
it also shows how lax environmental standards are in some of the candidate countries.
tourism can even have negative effects on the environment.
however, this work must be done within the framework of environmental policy.
the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the commission is still keen to meet the deadline for the next phase, 1 january 2003. the proposal will take account of the studies carried out, in particular the need to ensure the universal character of the service, the establishment of effective consumer protections, the creation of a favourable climate for new jobs and the solution of the problems arising in connection with competition.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the failure to draw on the capacities of women in the decision-making process is an unacceptable waste.
the climate in which american companies operate is different from that which we know in europe.
we need a different kind of policy - not one that is entirely modelled on the american model, but one that gives the unemployed the opportunity to get a good training adapted to new jobs, facilitates the creation of businesses, improves the business environment and makes full use of new techniques and ideas.
i think we must rely on human resources, on the one hand, through a macro-political approach that stimulates demand and creates new job opportunities, and on the other hand - and perhaps above all - by relying on measures that affect the working environment, such as training, the democratization of enterprises and the improvement of social relations.
tax harmonization at european level should only be possible in exceptional cases, for example for certain environmental or capital taxes.
the challenge for all of us is to integrate social and environmental perspectives.
this means that the environmental perspective cannot be considered as a sectoral issue, but that any negative consequences of an activity in the field of production, transport, construction, etc., must be identified during the planning phase and minimized through various measures.
following the rio conference, an action programme was drawn up which highlights, for each sector, the most important problems in this respect and indicates how the environment and natural resources should be protected.
to further this necessary integration of ecological thinking into our politics, new methods must be developed.
in these countries, the knowledge and resources to integrate the environmental perspective are lacking, as is the spirit of prevention that is the essence of the rio decision.
we have a great responsibility in general to pass on knowledge and techniques which can be used over the long term, that is to say, which do not damage the environment or natural resources.
the purpose of the proposed regulation under discussion today is to ensure that the eu fully integrates the environmental perspective into its aid.
- (sv) mr president, those who have seen the effects on the environment of the erika disaster cannot reasonably vote against a report which seeks to collect the oil waste from ships.
both agreements aimed to prevent the dumping of waste at sea.
the baltic is also, from an environmental point of view, a much more fragile environment than many other seas.
none of the environmental problems facing europe can be solved by any one country acting in isolation.
nor is it a product whose manufacture has particularly significant effects on the environment.
- (sv) mr president, the proposal before us strengthens, improves and makes stricter the environmental labelling system which has existed in the eu since 1992, and which, unfortunately, has not had the success it was hoped for.
the experience of the svanen (swan) system, which is used in the nordic countries and is itself inspired by the german blauer engel (blue angel), shows that environmental labelling of products is a very important and effective means of getting our fellow citizens to change their consumption habits and buy according to ecological criteria.
this is what we all want: to be able to buy products which do not harm the environment, to influence producers and the evolution of our society and to have more environmentally friendly products and services.
the council's position seems to me to be relatively good, and i also find the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment and mr schnellhardt quite satisfactory.
i am thinking in particular of the role of consumer associations and environmental ngos, and of the coexistence of different eco-labelling schemes.
i am absolutely convinced that the eu label will make its way much more easily and quickly wherever an environmental labelling system is already working properly.
the key to success lies to a very large extent in public opinion and the confidence that consumer associations and environmental ngos have in them.
it is therefore particularly important that the idea of banning national environmental labels has been abandoned.
we also want environmental ngos to have a decisive influence on the award of the label and the definition of the criteria.
the second concerns, for example, the work plan on the environmental strategy...
- (sv) mr president, mr blokland has done a tremendous job.
of course, the eu must put in place a sustainable system for the protection of air, land and water.
there are indeed huge differences in the way waste is treated.
the incineration of waste along with large quantities of biofuels, and the case of the highly populated areas of central europe, where it is more of a cleaning problem, the aim being more to burn waste than to generate, for example, heat for energy purposes.
from an ecological point of view, it is also closely linked to the next issue we are going to deal with, the one which is the subject of the myller report.
i am convinced that these two reports together constitute a good basis for the future of the environment and the development of public health in europe.
i should like to use the short time i have to speak to try to dispel at least some of the myths that have been flourishing about the ozone problem.
the climate of these regions is often used as a pretext or explanation for the high ozone levels recorded in the summer.
it is true that a climate with long periods of high pressure increases ozone levels.
but at the same time, studies show that the causes of this ozone layer are not to be found elsewhere, and that is why it is damaging cities such as barcelona, athens, milan and many coastal tourist towns.
these causes are rooted in traffic, industrial processes and energy production.
it is therefore a pity that the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy is taking such a detached attitude to this text and that it is only looking at it from a perspective which is intended to promote industry.
we know that exceeding the ozone threshold has a direct effect on their respiratory capacity.
these are facts which the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy should consider tomorrow when this directive is put to the vote.
even if the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy seems to have barely woken up and is still surprised, it can be said that the acidification problem is not really new, since it has existed for as long as the industrial age - that is, for a hundred years.
the criticism should be that we have not included the scenario which is usually emphasized in energy, for example in the kyoto protocol, and which states that it will be necessary to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels in order to solve the climate problems we are facing.
- (sv) mr president, the main environmental problem in my country of origin is the acidification of agricultural land, forests, lakes and waterways.
acidification is caused by acid rain, which itself comes from atmospheric emissions from the use of fossil fuels.
in sweden and finland, we have taken large-scale measures to reduce the manifestations of air pollution at the national level.
however, more than 80 percent of the acid rain that falls in our country is caused by air pollution in other western european countries.
many northern europeans believe that only environmental cooperation with other eu countries can solve the acidification problem.
i would like to say this to the members of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy: the resolution adopted by the united nations in the form of the gothenburg protocol is far from sufficient.
i am convinced that the eu can do better than the united nations in dealing with the environmental problem facing europe.
the european directive on air pollution which is being proposed to us can indeed represent an important step in the fight against acidification of natural areas, which affects the northern regions of the union in particular.
in addition, it must at the same time achieve a significant reduction in the amount of ground-level ozone which is harmful to the health of the population, especially in the large cities of the southern eu.
however, it may be doubted whether it is appropriate to have the same type of rules for installations dealing with unsorted waste and those which only have to treat certain types of waste after sorting.
the facilities for unseparated waste require more sophisticated equipment.
if the same requirements are applied to all types of incineration plants, there is a risk that the sorting of waste will be hindered and that recycling or reuse, including composting of organic waste, will be hindered.
the swedish christian democrats therefore ask the commission to take these views into account in the further work on the issues relating to the treatment of waste and household waste.
- (sv) we are in favour of the eu setting environmental thresholds through framework legislation, since most environmental problems are generalised and not confined to national levels.
another equally important area concerns the possibilities of making energy and materials management more efficient through new technologies.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we are convinced that measures taken in the member states, such as reducing labour taxation, introducing more flexible labour law and a more favourable environment for entrepreneurship, are the factors which can increase employment and bring about a dynamic development for the union as a whole.
- (sv) we would like to make the following points clear in relation to points 11 to 16 concerning aid for the development of renewable energy sources.
we are in favour of promoting these sources of energy, but we believe that it must be done, rather than through direct subsidies, through the use of various forms of economic incentives, for example by higher taxation of fossil fuels, the introduction of environmental taxes and a stricter application of the polluter pays principle.
in addition, aid should be granted for research and projects on the development of renewable energy sources.
our mission is to leave future generations a world and an environment in as good a condition as possible.
from a purely practical point of view, this implies regulations that ensure maximum risk reduction of the spread of gmos, the cessation of the use of antibiotic resistance markers, the development of independent research on the risks induced by gmos, civil liability based on the principle of strict liability of persons who have disseminated gmos whose effects on health or the environment have been found to be harmful, environmental impact assessments and long-term socio-economic studies of the use of gmos, permanent labelling of products containing gmos, compliance with all existing regulations, for example the biosafety protocol, a transparent application and decision-making procedure, which leaves the right of public opinion to express itself, which deals with each request separately and does not tolerate any simplification of procedures.
- (sv) mr president, like many other members of the green group, i voted against this report for a number of reasons, three of which are mainly due to the fact that the report is not a report on the environment.
this is of course also a waste of human resources.
in our view, only free trade can ensure a sustainable global economic development in the long term.
the administration of the reconstruction office is one of its expenditure, equally important, but there are also others, relating, for example, to budgetary aid and to energy imports.
i shall support in principle all the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment.
in the course of the debates we had in the committee on the environment, some well-explained differences emerged between the groups which are also represented in this house.
this increase is causing problems, both in terms of environmental disturbance and noise, as well as congestion and accidents.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
(applause) i would like to thank
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
however, the eu has not required these countries to prevent and take action against trafficking in women, as it has done in the economic and environmental fields.
i am often sceptical of very strict requirements, for example on the environment, which are imposed on the candidate countries.
if you smoke it, for example, in the form of cigarettes, you absorb a large amount of tar and carbon monoxide at the same time, which is very harmful.
the ozone layer, which is vital to life on earth, is getting thinner by the day.
i believe that we have succeeded in producing a legislative proposal which is a good incentive for change and which also encourages environmental foresight.
it does not repair the hole in the ozone layer, but it is a step in the right direction.
i hope that parliament will accept this proposal today or tomorrow and that we will have better legislation on ozone-depleting substances in the european union by october.
the question i would like to put to the commission is this: how can we ensure that this development continues and help those who are still trying to find new systems to make a little more progress, instead of stopping them completely in their research and being obsessed with the question of the risks of methane emissions?
- (sv) i voted against the resolution for the following reasons: 1. the resolution contains no wording on the need to give priority to sustainable development and to the integration of environmental issues into all areas of union policy.
these may include, for example, industrial conversion operations, areas with a low standard of living, but also areas such as northern sweden and finland, where population densities are low, distances are long and the climate is harsh.
in general, we would like to see a more balanced investment policy, aimed at greater diversification and environmental measures, and at the same time a reduction in investment in the transport sector.
we also welcome the fact that the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism has accepted our amendment, which has become paragraph 9 of the report and which assumes that the resources available for environmental projects can also be used to finance projects aimed at both conserving and studying biological diversity.
point 8 deals quite satisfactorily with the question of investments aimed at treating waste in the most environmentally friendly way possible.
of course, the amount of waste produced must also be reduced.
in addition to these amendments on the environment, we have tabled one which seeks to respect the principle of additionality.
we must invest more energy in the process of european integration, not start doubting.
in this way, the post-election period would be crucial, as would the role of the president and the zanu-pf leadership, and they would help to create a climate conducive to reconciliation and a return to calm.
the mass transport of goods by road leads to problems of overloading the road network, noise pollution and environmentally harmful discharges.
these rates must be determined by transport costs, such as noise, environmental impact, accident risk, etc.
the scientific committee on toxicity, ecotoxicity and the environment of the commission has assessed the risks presented by a certain amount of phthalates.
i hope that this report and the decision that will be taken this morning will add to the safety that young children should enjoy in their daily environment.
if the legislation we adopt on this is not strict enough, then member states that have come forward may be forced to adopt a regulation that represents a regression from the one they apply today - in accordance with the peculiar logic of the internal market, which is that trade always comes before health and environmental considerations.
- (sv) mr president, i do not need to repeat what my colleagues mr goodwill and mr whitehead have said about the broad consensus we have reached in the committee on the environment.
in fact, it can be said that this form of pollution can cross borders, since, as we all know, water carries pollutants, especially chemicals and heavy metals.
in the central regions of europe in particular, the states are so close together that it is difficult to say where pollution is coming from.
i could spend the night and all day tomorrow talking about the history of forests and the vital importance of forest areas in the future of a sustainable europe.
for those in northern and central europe, this threat is mainly due to various forms of air pollution.
unfortunately, we cannot prevent pollution through our forestry policy, but we cannot act in the fields of the environment, transport and agriculture, in other words, through our general environmental policy.
since most forests are damaged by atmospheric emissions from remote areas, the responsibility for air quality and climate lies at a global and european level.
to obtain an environmental certification, forest owners must burn a certain area of their timber each year.
we burn forests for ecological reasons.
the eu has spent a lot of time and energy to dismantle borders and create an internal market.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal.
- (sv) mr president, as rapporteur for the opinion, responsible for presenting the document drawn up by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, in accordance with the hughes procedure, i can say on behalf of the whole committee that we welcome the danish initiative.
we believe that this initiative will be a tool that can be used in the fight against environmental crime and the usual cross-border effects of this type of crime, which is becoming increasingly frequent and which of course directly threatens the environment, and therefore people, fauna and flora.
the most serious environmental offences are a problem common to all member states, since they do not stop at borders.
we must therefore be able to take joint measures to protect the environment as much as possible through criminal provisions.
administrative cooperation between member states should also make it possible to obtain all information useful in combating environmental offences.
however, i would also like to mention a point which was also stressed in the committee on the environment, namely the need to focus also on preventive measures, in other words to intervene before offences are committed and ecological damage occurs.
it is therefore important that legislation addresses the issue of environmental liability, that it defines the distribution of this liability, and that legislation is equally effective in this respect in the various member states.
naturally, there is a need to increase knowledge in general, both in the field of the environment itself and in information on know-how, on how to detect environmental offences, on their consequences and the penalties to which they are subject.
in this draft framework decision, serious environmental offences are defined as acts or omissions which, by non-compliance with the law and in the presence of aggravating circumstances, cause significant damage to the environment.
there is of course some debate about how to interpret the terms 'serious environmental offences' and 'significant damage', but this definition seems to reflect the current state of thinking, even if it is not found in national legislation.
in the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, we have dealt with this question of the definition of serious environmental crime.
in addition, the fight against environmental crime must not be confined to private enterprises but must also apply to the administrative sector, that is to say, to cases where the administration of our various countries, in fact our governments, have been guilty of serious environmental crime, through negligence or irresponsibility.
that is what we wanted to argue in amendment no 16. another important aspect is that of the so-called 'aggravating circumstances', which arise if the activity which caused significant environmental damage was subject to very inadequate safety measures, depending on the risks posed by the activity.
these points are contained in amendment no 25. in conclusion, i would simply say that we are on the way to achieving common action to protect the environment.
this framework decision is a step forward, as is the council of europe convention on the protection of the environment through criminal law.
these steps are, in my view, absolutely necessary to prevent criminal or irresponsible actions which cause environmental damage.
- (sv) mr president, the members of the united left welcome this danish initiative on the criminal consequences of environmental offences.
in my country, sweden, it is now quite common for complaints to be lodged about environmental crimes.
at the same time, it is also likely that the outdated but persistent view that these types of offences are not as serious as others, and that environmental laws are not as binding as other laws, must be tackled.
at present, environmental crime is profitable, as the criminal risk is low.
the first is that many environmental offences have international consequences, which have already been pointed out by many people in this debate.
the second reason is that the adoption of this danish initiative will facilitate environmental cooperation within the council of europe, perhaps by allowing us to meet the requirements of the convention.
the third reason is that we all know that environmental law is the area in which community regulations are least applied.
such an initiative should also make it possible to improve compliance with community environmental law, which is clearly necessary when we consider how certain directives are being followed.
it shows that an aggressive and progressive attitude can be adopted within the council when it comes to these environmental issues.
the deliberate and deliberate acts of corporations and other actors which are harmful to the environment put at risk, as we all know, not only the survival of nature but also the lives of human beings.
i am quite sure that when the name 'teckomatorp' is mentioned in my country, sweden, everyone knows what it means - or at least most people - although it is an environmental crime that goes back more than twenty years.
the company had not wanted to store its toxic waste, so it had buried it, endangering the lives of an entire village.
it is clear that we must take environmental crime as seriously as we take other criminal acts.
i think, like the chair of the committee on the environment, mrs schörling, that to prevent environmental crime we also need to have effective environmental liability legislation.
preventive measures are the best way to ensure that our environment does not suffer further criminal acts.
in the few seconds i have left, i would like to address the commission directly and reiterate the request made by, among others, mrs thors and mrs mckenna, concerning the transport of animals which takes place on a daily basis in the territory of the union, and which is perhaps the most obvious environmental crime we know today.
- (sv) mr president, i am very pleased with the confidence you have placed in me as rapporteur for the second reading of the sme directive, which in my view is an important step towards a new policy in the field of environmental policy.
i would like to thank all my colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and in particular the portuguese presidency for the excellent cooperation.
the proposal for a directive concerns strategic environmental impact assessment, or sme, which in short is a systematic process of assessing, analysing and evaluating the impact and potential effects of a programme on the environment.
an environmental report must be written and made accessible to the environmental authorities, the public and the environmental organisations, who must have sufficient time to react to the report.
this is a very important directive for the whole of the union's environmental policy.
this instrument will facilitate the fulfilment of the obligations of the treaty and the sustainable development agreements.
the aim of a modern environmental policy is to avoid environmental damage as much as possible and to minimise its effects.
therefore, we must learn in planning how, with the help of policies, plans and programmes, to prevent and reduce harmful effects and impacts on the environment.
the commission's original report of 1991 was a report on the environmental impact of the policy measures adopted by the commission in the field of smes.
the environment committee is however of the opinion that a policy should also be drawn up during the five-year review.
this issue is dealt with in amendments nos 2 and 21. environmental impact assessment at project level comes late in the decision-making process and was also a decisive argument for the commission when it finally submitted its proposal in 1996. this is in fact one of the main points of the directive: but the decisionmaking process had to be intervened in.
for a truly viable sme, the scope of the directives must be wide enough and the environmental reports and evaluations must be of a very high quality.
the committee on the environment has tried to restore the balance of power, inter alia by means of amendments nos 6 and 7, which widen the scope of the directive.
in the environment committee's deliberations, this possibility was not taken into consideration at all.
of course they have the right to vote, but do they really think that the eu's environmental policy has little to no obligation?
should the european parliament ignore the text of the treaty, the cardiff treaty, the fifth environmental programme and so on?
(sv) mr president, every day we are reminded that the environment has changed.
in one way or another, environmental issues are increasingly attracting the attention of public opinion.
i would also like to congratulate mrs schörling on her excellent report, in which she makes it clear that environmental aspects must be taken into account in good time.
environmental issues should in principle be reflected in all activities, especially economic activities.
as regards the plan, the building plan and so on, it is of course important, as also in your report is presented, that at the earliest possible stage account be taken of the environmental aspects, so that errors and higher costs can be avoided as quickly as possible.
economic activities must be subject to environmental self-assessment.
as the eu spends a large part of its budget on agriculture, regional policy and the structural funds, it is obvious that these areas have been studied for their environmental impact.
it is illogical to support eu funds for activities in these sectors, as is currently the case, but then in another context the environmental consequences must be combated.
we must try to create a system where we can take environmental measures into account, also when it comes to economic issues.
we share most of the views expressed in it on the need for a rigorous policy against the negative effects of air transport on the environment, but we cannot support paragraphs 20 and 23 of the text.
the regulation we are now discussing concerns the conditions for ensuring that the union's aid policy takes better account of the physical environment and the natural resource base in connection with various development projects.
we know that economic growth can often have negative consequences for the natural environment, either in the exploitation of natural resources, or in industrial production itself, or in the use of products.
environmental damage has negative effects on health.
they risk eroding biodiversity, but can also cause damage that threatens the long-term productive capacity of natural systems.
by thinking proactively and choosing methods and technologies that are as environmentally friendly as possible, growth can be combined with good environmental care.
the integration of environmental considerations requires, among other things, extensive methodological work, demonstration projects, but also training and education of both commission staff and relevant staff in the beneficiary countries.
as swedish liberals, we see european integration as a means of providing solutions to problems that transcend borders, such as the environment, trade, crossborder mobility, human rights and conflict management.
by increasing cooperation, particularly in the fight against crossborder crime and environmental pollution, we can make enormous gains.
the environment will be a cornerstone of the negotiations.
we will be able to solve europe's transboundary environmental problems together.
today's debate is about the great challenge of the new millennium: uniting europe to create peace and security and social, economic and environmental development.
this debate has been held in the committee on the environment.
i think it is important to note that the environment will not be improved if these countries are left out a little longer.
we'll see the environmental benefits.
when we create common rules that improve the environment, we create better living conditions for the future.
after two terrible world wars and fifty years of communist oppression and dictatorship, during which christian and universal human dignity, democracy, religious freedom and the environment were trampled underfoot in the name of an oppressive class struggle, it is now finally time to unite our continent and the world.
fourthly, the commission to demonstrate strong european solidarity with economic measures to improve the environment in the eastern countries, given the terrible environmental legacy they suffer from communism.
sixth and last: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment.
many of these poisonings or heavy metal releases occurred before there was sufficient environmental awareness and before the effects were known.
toxic waste, pollution, poor animal husbandry, poor hygiene will sooner or later result in sick animals, and consequently also in increased disease in humans.
as long as the european parliament is not able to make the logical link between the production and sale of arms on the one hand and the continuing destruction of the environment and human life on a global scale, we cannot support reports of this kind.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has already adopted a number of amendments to the proposal.
i am happy and grateful today, both to the commission for having started work on better food safety and to mr bowis and the whole committee on the environment, public health and consumer affairs.
food must also be produced in accordance with the most ecological principles possible.
as members of the swedish liberal party, we see european integration as an opportunity to solve crossborder problems such as those relating to the environment, trade, crossborder movement, human rights and conflict resolution.
these are three important documents which we have to discuss today and which concern one of the most important challenges we face, namely climate change.
for a northerner from an area where temperatures rarely exceed 25 degrees fahrenheit [7.4°c] at this time of year, and where rain is pouring down the hills, the idea of a warming climate may at first seem appealing.
the climate change we face is hardly a positive thing for any of us.
the three documents on climate change which the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has dealt with can be regarded as documents representing different time periods.
in this report, we in the committee on the environment present our view, and hopefully also that of the union, on what we think should happen in the hague.
the resolution makes clear the need for the kyoto protocol to be signed and for the industrial countries to take the lead in halting climate change.
i think the chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has sent a clear message that we do not think that three representatives from the european parliament are sufficient for the hague conference.
the european parliament and those in parliament who work on environmental issues must be taken seriously at some point, and not just used as a sort of figurehead when appropriate.
the resolution on emissions trading is a good document, but it has been further improved after the amendments by the committee on the environment.
we assume that this work will be included in the next document, that is, in the eu's strategy and action to reduce emissions, and that the transport sector will not be forgotten when we discuss climate change.
the message is very clear: the principle must be that all emissions, regardless of their origin, should be covered by some control, whether in the form of emission allowances or in the form of legislation, but there should be concrete limits and controls for each type of emission.
many have expressed reservations about the proposed emissions trading scheme, particularly as regards the socioeconomic implications.
it is about the eu's strategy and actions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
it would have been even more welcome if it had been more concrete and clear, but we hope that it will become clearer with the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
as we all know, climate issues are perhaps the most intractable environmental problem of our time.
it is not that we do not know what changes are needed, but that the necessary changes have such a profound impact on our whole transport and energy policy and indeed on our whole way of consuming.
we are facing fundamental societal changes to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
it is the most developed countries, those with the highest economic standards and the highest per capita emissions of greenhouse gases, that have the greatest responsibility to lead the way in reducing emissions.
responsible policies by the most developed countries must be based on their ability to reduce their own emissions.
if there is to be room for emissions trading, which i very much doubt, it must be only a minor part of the overall policy.
this system may pose very great risks in the future when russia and the developing countries are included in the emissions trading system and it becomes global.
instead, we need a strong policy for lower energy consumption, renewable energy, alternative fuels and effective environmental taxes on transport.
if it is not possible to agree on a tax on greenhouse gases within the eu, countries that are prepared to act jointly should introduce such a tax anyway.
as regards the moreira da silva reports, we agree with the content of most of the points, but we are more sceptical about the issue of emissions trading.
everyone agrees on the seriousness of the climate issue, and everyone agrees that the eu must have a sensible policy to live up to the commitments we made in kyoto.
i believe that the eu must take the lead in international climate action, otherwise i do not think the climate convention will be much more than theory.
to take such a leading role requires an aggressive energy policy, but the truth is that the union today lacks an energy policy worthy of the name.
i am myself a member of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, which is responsible for energy matters.
i have repeatedly observed over the past few months that energy policy in the union is not being pursued systematically.
a few months later, we regret that lower prices have reduced incentives for energy efficiency and renewable energy.
an offensive strategy must include a change in our energy systems.
nevertheless, developing countries will be the ones to receive the bulk of future investment in energy production.
in my view, the responsibility for the lack of results lies primarily with the member states and our governments, and is due to their refusal to accept a common carbon tax and the refusal to accept the need for a common energy policy.
i wish commissioner wallström every success in her work, but i would like to end with a question: does she really believe that an offensive climate strategy can be implemented without a common energy policy?
i have an important objection to the draft report by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the union's agricultural policy, which takes the form of export and production aid, must therefore be dismantled and partly replaced by aid for the preservation of biological diversity and environmental protection measures.
parliament has, however, managed to push forward a number of important priorities, such as increasing efforts to combat unemployment and poverty, various important environmental and equality issues, etc.
in this context, it is appalling to see the enormous amount of unused resources in the european union budget, and in some cases, real waste.
if you look at the eu's fisheries policy as a whole and not just at this agreement, a large part of the eu's fishing fleet's fishing outside the union is unsustainable in the long term, from an ecological perspective and from a resource perspective.
in the internal policies area, the court re-audited nine contracts at the transport and energy directorates-general and eight contracts at the research directorate-general.
if you look at the report of the court of auditors on the anti-pollution measures of the commission, you will find not only countries named but also regions and the french member of the court of auditors from brittany, mr jean-françois bernicot, did not protest at the fact that we dealt with his brittany page after page.
in the harsh climate that ensues, more and more people are left out, marginalized and rejected.
mr president, let there be no doubt a combination of investments in renewables and energy efficiency is the only realistic way for the european union to meet the requirements of the kyoto protocol and reduce our heavy dependence on fossil fuels.
i only wish that this directive were part of a coherent long-term energy strategy of the union.
instead, proposals related to energy are submitted one at a time and without much consistency.
we will not be successful in our efforts to transform our energy system in the union unless we make energy policy – including taxation – part of a common policy.
renewable energy is no exception.
i could show you figures and curves here demonstrating that for both wind energy and photovoltaics this mathematical formula applies.
sustainable peace cannot be achieved if half of humanity is ignored.
i think the eu was right not to give in to carbon sinks.
not only is it difficult to verify and measure, but more and more scientists are saying - i don't know if they're right - that it's likely that what may be carbon sinks today could be carbon sources tomorrow.
i want to repeat it in english: forest turns from being carbon sinks to carbon sources.
i would rather say, mr wallström, that in the continuing dialogue with the americans it is better to be more generous with regard to emissions trading in general than to involve something which is extremely difficult to substantiate scientifically.
every day, we're hit with an average of two new emissions.
that way, another environmental nightmare is set free.
i voted in favour of the following provisions: a) safety on board ships, measures to prevent pollution and those relating to living and working conditions on board ships in community ports; (b) the requirement to equip oil tankers with double hulls; the establishment and enforcement of vessel control; (d) provisions on accidental or intentional marine pollution.
in recent years there has been a marked increase in the number of oil tankers operating in the atlantic, the english channel and the baltic sea, which means that there is an increased risk of accidents with negative consequences for the environment.
finland, with the support of the commission's directorate-general for the environment, has attempted to get the russian authorities to carry out an environmental impact assessment in accordance with the esbo convention.
the baltic is a very fragile inland sea, already heavily polluted by industrial, wastewater and agricultural waste.
the commission and the council must now apply the requirement to carry out an environmental impact assessment (eia) and inform the russian authorities that any future oil trade with russia will be subject to this condition.
the conflicts of the future will not be solved by military intervention but by policies aimed at social, economic and environmental justice.
amendment no 2 on carbon monoxide is therefore particularly positive.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has tabled an opinion.
as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, i would like to say that i welcome the reaction of the committee on economic and monetary affairs to the taxation of aviation fuel.
aviation is now the fastest growing source of greenhouse gases.
if we are to meet the requirements for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, we must take all possible measures to limit them.
we cannot maintain the current structure, the current technology and achieve the environmental objectives.
although its emissions are a small fraction of total greenhouse gas emissions, they are increasing very rapidly.
finding effective methods for taxing aviation fuel is therefore one of the keys to climate policy.
we need international agreements on environmental taxes, but not the ban on environmental taxes that the convention implies.
in the meantime, a system of environmental charges on flights within the eu would be a positive thing.
here in the eu, we have an opportunity to show that we are serious about climate policy.
the prospects of these people for a good life depend entirely on the environment in which they live.
unfortunately, cities today are almost automatically associated with a bad environment - high emissions, high traffic, and polluted waterways - but it doesn't have to be that way.
better knowledge and new technologies are creating opportunities for a better environment in europe's cities.
cities themselves have a large number of instruments at their disposal to help improve the environment for their own citizens.
through sound urban planning, well-functioning public transport and cooperation with other municipal stakeholders, citizens can be provided with a better environment.
in addition, in practice it is at the local level that the environmental decisions we take in this parliament are to be implemented.
the climate issue is a good example of this.
reduced transport and a shift away from fossil fuels at the local level are necessary to bring about a change in the climate threats we are experiencing.
like many colleagues, i was pleasantly surprised by the council resolution of the nice european council, which states that the precautionary principle should be applied as soon as possible after the harmful effects on health and the environment have been identified and when no firm conclusions can be drawn about the level of risk on the basis of a preliminary scientific study based on the available data.
our task is to create the framework needed to protect both the environment and human and animal health.
parliament has succeeded in getting a number of its major priorities accepted, including greater emphasis on combating unemployment and poverty, as well as a number of important issues relating to the environment, equality, etc.