the clean energy package is an important building block for a successful energy transition and for achieving climate goals.
the three reports we are discussing today are indicative of the way forward for the sustainable implementation of this package.
the concrete targets we adopt in the renewable energy, energy efficiency and governance of the energy union will shape the structure of the european energy industry, the structure of many industries, competitiveness, employment and consumer behaviour for decades to come, namely by 2050. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the implementation of the union's energy union strategy.
the narrow vote in the itre committee on the energy efficiency directive has shown that there is no clear consensus in parliament on the new climate targets either.
increasing energy efficiency to 40% by 2030 is neither economically nor technically feasible.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the commitments made by the member states in the context of the union's climate change strategy.
the estonian presidency has taken many measures to make the european union a promising environment for innovative companies to invest in a digital future.
why should pyongyang seek a diplomatic solution with the west when the whole world can see live how the beacon of democracy, how america - or rather the trump administration - deals with existing agreements, even though the international atomic energy agency testifies that iran actually complies with all the conditions prescribed in the agreement.
if we are to advance and strengthen human rights through trade agreements, we need finally enforceable sustainability chapters with sanction mechanisms.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, such as the introduction of a new environmental policy.
but the partly reckless and often very irresponsible use of plastics in our society, in our economy, has made plastics and the products made from them a threat to our health, to the environment and to people.
the strategy aims to ensure that, on the one hand, products are produced safely, that recycling and reuse of products is meaningful and desirable for people, the environment and health, and that, on the other hand, products that do not meet the concept of sustainability are removed from the market.
these are the rise in global risk premia, the low profitability of banks, the sustainability of government and corporate debt and the liquidity risks in the area of investment funds.
research, development and innovation are particularly important in the field of clean energy, as they are the only way to ensure the industrial leadership and competitiveness of european companies and to create sustainable growth and jobs.
the european union is now a world leader in high-quality low-emission energy innovation, energy efficiency innovation, renewable energy, smart grids, storage and the development of clean technologies.
however, to remain competitive in the global marketplace in the future, clean energy innovation needs to be accelerated.
and: we need a regulatory and financial framework that is consistent with the energy roadmap 2050 and the paris agreement.
for europe to remain at the top, we need more money, faster and better clean energy r&d.
the union must have more resources, its own resources, in particular to accompany the ecological transition towards a new, more sustainable development model.
this cooperation will serve to disseminate acquired knowledge and foster an enabling environment for collective social change and, above all, it will contribute to an improvement in the well—being of young women and girls where fgm is practised.
i think it's very crucial that we can also promote the sustainable development goals, especially in the area of renewable energy, sdg7 or sdg6, where we can finally provide people with clean water and sanitation so that they can stay healthy and also produce healthy food in agriculture, investing in the future of these people and not just in consumption, which is quickly consumed and where the money often goes in the wrong channels.
for example, the focus is on efficient driving to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector (target 20% fewer emissions by 2030 compared to 2008).
the opportunities offered by intelligent transport systems to reduce emissions, reduce the accident rate and develop a competitive european transport sector are also recognised.
they feel that they are bargaining chips, and they fear that they may become waste at the end of the process.
for us in development policy, it's really crucial that these sustainable development goals are implemented: goal 2 agriculture, goal 6 water, sanitation and goal 7 renewable energy.
we will not be able to meet the paris climate targets if we do not make european agriculture greener.
we will not be able to save europe's biodiversity if we do not make european agriculture more ecological.
they therefore face a difficult task, because without massive savings and a reform of own resources it will not be possible to ensure sustainable financing of the eu budget and at the same time to launch all those projects and programme lines which are politically desirable and which actually bring european added value.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i would also like to suggest that in future we link the first pillar of the cap much more closely to public services, such as climate protection, clean water, biodiversity, healthy food, animal welfare or landscape protection, in order to dispel any suspicion that these are market support measures and to make it clear that these are public services that are legal under the green box.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
there is no way around a common foreign, security and defence policy, an independent energy supply for the european union and diplomatic solutions.
i would mention the sustainable development goals here, with number two: safe food, sanitation, renewable energy, but first the negotiations must be a success, and then europe can deliver.
the main objective of the cotonou agreement is to combat poverty, in accordance with the means of sustainable development and the gradual integration of these countries into the world economy.
development assistance is delivered in a difficult and volatile geopolitical environment and is affected by problems such as weak governance, corruption, social and economic instability, armed conflicts or crises, which means that, in particular in budgetary assistance activities, the risk of diversion of resources remains high because of the risks of corruption and fraud, that more domestic revenues are to be mobilised in developing countries to reduce dependence on development assistance, and that increased cooperation with the european union is required, in particular in the fight against tax fraud and aggressive tax planning.
i am a health and environmental policy-maker first and foremost, and it is in those areas that the money we invest helps not only to prevent human suffering, but also to make us competitive as a european market, to enable our children and grandchildren to experience a development that makes europe worth living in.
but if ecological criteria are not a factor in preventing this merger, then the problem is the law and not the implementation.
the integration of the european development fund into the european budget also gives us new opportunities, particularly in the area of sustainable development objectives 2, 6 and 7, in which we really want to invest because it is the future of europe to provide stable structures in these countries.
we greens are disappointed that the commission's proposal does not focus on social issues and only wants to commit 25% of spending to climate objectives.
the eib has invested in four policy areas in 2016: innovation and knowledge, sme and midcap financing, infrastructure and environment and climate.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
it is also of considerable importance for jobs, trade, energy, environmental policy and research.
everyone likes to talk about climate change.
but at the same time, it is a fact that the co2 emissions in the transport sector continue to increase, because more and more goods are transported by road.
just talking about climate change is not going to be enough to drive climate change and reduce emissions.
strict emissions standards for heavy-duty vehicles and an industry initiative for clean battery production in europe are long overdue.
the ecological transport revolution must come, there is no way around it.
the commission's proposals focus on the reduction of greenhouse gases in the transport sector.
the new agricultural policy will have an impact on our farms, on the health of the food supply for our citizens and on the environment.
the third objective must focus on climate benefits rather than climate damage, laying the foundations for clean water, ensuring healthy soils, using a minimum of pesticides and farming in the best possible harmony with nature.
the beneficiaries of a competitive, sustainable, equitable and inclusive rural agriculture, of social cohesion in rural areas, of high food standards, of a cultural and natural landscape worth living in, of a young generation that enjoys farming with confidence, are all citizens.
the report argues that european investors need to increase their investment in green technologies to meet internationally agreed climate targets.
the commission estimates that the annual investment in sustainable infrastructure required to achieve the sdgs is between eur 4,7 and 6,7 trillion.
the report finds that investors underestimate the wage and social benefits of a decarbonised, green and sustainable economy.
the report calls on the eu to learn from 'best practices' such as the german energy transition and make them minimum standards for all member states to attract investment and ensure a just and rapid transition to a sustainable economy.
investment incentives include market mechanisms such as disclosure of climate risks, but also strong public investment and green bond issuance.
although i fully support a boost to investment in a greener and more sustainable economy, i think it is rather risky to interfere politically in forecasts of the creditworthiness and profitability of green investment opportunities.
i fully agree with the warning of dr. elke könig, chair of the systemic risk boards, that sustainability does not necessarily mean risk-free.
we must therefore increase our own resources, and we must do this by means of an emissions trading system, the eu corporate tax, a european plastic tax, and also by taxing the digital economy and financial transactions!
we already adopted a position on this in the european parliament in 2014. the fact that environmental and labour standards, as well as free wage negotiations and the ilo core labour standards will be taken into account in the future in the calculation of dumping is due mainly to pressure from the social democrats.
the commission will also be supporting the development of a european strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources, including the establishment of a european environment agency.
if we are serious about 'trade for all', then sustainability, the protection of workers and the protection of environmental standards must be given the same importance as, for example, the liberalisation of customs duties.
gender equality is a fundamental value of the european union and therefore, in the context of the union’s civil protection mechanism, member states must consider gender in all phases, from prevention to preparedness and response processes, because natural and human-made disasters, as well as environmental policies, affect men and women differently.
the environmental impact should be reduced, the sector should play its part in climate protection and we should - also for geopolitical reasons - move away from oil.
synthetic fuels not only protect the environment, they reduce our dependence on them and bring the value chain back to europe.
i repeat, we need monitoring, but we certainly do not need the eco-waste trade.
the european union is also committed to the development of the european union's energy policy.
i am particularly concerned about the protection of critical energy infrastructure from attacks from the internet - an area that has only recently received more attention and in which we cannot invest enough in protecting it.
energy infrastructure is an essential service, because it is the only way to ensure the proper functioning of a modern society and economy.
if there was a cyber attack on our energy supply, we wouldn't be in this room, we wouldn't be in strasbourg, we would probably be locked in our homes.
i wonder whether it is really necessary to promote high-tech weapons instead of sustainable infrastructure projects.
we also support the secretary general’s efforts in making a substantial change in order to align the un development system with the priorities of agenda 2030 and the sustainable development goals.
last, but certainly not least, we reaffirm our unwavering commitment to the paris climate accord and stress the need for its implementation globally.
we must not forget that the effect of climate change will – or already does – lead to severe changes in the lifestyle of the population around the world.
we have big european issues: we have climate change, which we cannot solve nationally; we have unemployment, which we cannot solve nationally; we have tax evasion by large corporations, which we cannot solve nationally.
but our social peace in austria and our prosperity are threatened above all by climate change.
and can we expect you to be committed to a climate-friendly and environmentally friendly agriculture that leaves something of our nature for our next generation?
and i would like to point out again that the latest global competitiveness report says that athens is currently in the last place in the categories of financial market development, labour market efficiency and macroeconomic environment.
i would like to draw your attention to the position of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection on the proposal for a resolution on the implementation of the circular economy package on options for regulating the interface between chemical product and waste legislation.
the commission communication analysed the four main problems identified at the interface between chemical product and waste legislation and analysed the extent to which they hinder the development of a circular economy.
the four problems mentioned, which i will address later, are firstly the lack of information on substances of concern in products and waste, the presence of substances of concern in recycled materials, uncertainties about the criteria to be met to determine whether materials are not considered waste, and fourthly difficulties in applying the european union's methods for classifying waste and the consequences for the recyclability of materials.
the motion for a resolution generally covers the following subjects: the committee on the environment welcomes the communication from the european commission and the related working document from the commission services.
the primary objective of the european commission should be to prevent dangerous chemicals from entering the material cycle and to achieve full coherence between the implementing rules in waste and chemicals legislation.
the implementation of the chemicals product and waste act can be a challenge, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises.
more than 80% of the environmental impact of a product should be determined at the design stage.
the third problem identified is the uncertainty about the criteria for not considering materials as waste.
clear rules are needed to determine the conditions under which something ceases to be covered by the waste legislation and robust criteria for the end of waste are also needed.
the house calls on the european commission and member states to cooperate on the criteria for the end of waste.
the fourth problem identified is the difficulties in applying the european union's methods for the classification of waste and the consequences for the recyclability of materials.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a welcome one.
president juncker, in his state of the union address this morning, said that only a strong and united europe could protect its citizens from threats from within and without - from terrorism to climate change, as he put it.
i would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have worked so constructively and intensively here, the shadow rapporteurs in the committee on the environment and the members of the committees that have been consulted.
the numerous proposals for amendments and supplements have helped us to put to the vote tomorrow a report which not only reflects the concept of 'one health' but also the concept of 'one strong voice', as the report was adopted unanimously by the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment.
in view of the fact that we want to promote sustainable agriculture within the union and to support it accordingly in legislation and in financial terms, i believe it is important to create the appropriate framework conditions also in the area of authorization and use of plant protection products.
we are destroying our environment, we are destroying our landscape, we are destroying our biodiversity with this form of pesticide agriculture, which we are promoting here in parliament today.
and of course, we also have foresight technology, where we have to look at what impact this has on culture, on sports, on the economy, on the environment.
these are sustainable and realistic solutions: a common european asylum system, fast procedures across europe and legal pathways.
i am amused myself to some extent when a green person here in the house speaks of panic-mongering in connection with co2 emissions and climate protection.
it is clear that we need to adapt our car market and, of course, car emissions to the challenges of the 21st century.
there are also many other alternative energy and propulsion options.
i think that's where we need to look if we're going to really work together to achieve this important climate goal.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
ten or fifteen years ago, we were called illusionists when we talked about climate change itself.
but if you look at what actually happens then, look at what your minister has just done in the negotiations on co2 emissions from motor vehicles.
i would also like to mention the issue of biodiversity, because it is also very important.
but has austria banned the use of the top biodiversity killer, glyphosate, or its products - because that would be within your power - for austria?
he was talking about the others in the world who should help us improve the climate here accordingly.
the directive on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment aims to reduce the environmental impact of single-use plastics while promoting the transition to a circular economy with innovative and multifunctional alternatives.
in europe, about 150 000 tonnes of plastic waste end up in the sea every year, with a steep upward trend, half of which is single-use and a quarter of which is fishing gear.
plastic waste is increasingly becoming a threat to ecosystems and biodiversity, to human health, to tourism, to fisheries and to shipping.
however, the problem of waste is transnational, with 18 of the 20 largest marine polluters being emerging countries.
companies will incur compliance costs of eur 2 billion and waste management costs of eur 510 million.
such a mechanism also known as the drf packagewould help us to ensure a more effective and sustainable safeguarding of fundamental democratic rights.
it is particularly delicate to include a report which will be voted on tomorrow, namely the promotion of clean and energy-efficient road vehicles.
no, this is also an important issue in environmental policy.
as a tyrolean, i know very well that noise, air pollution and congestion are a huge burden on the population.
freight transport in particular is responsible for a large proportion of co2 emissions from the transport sector.
this puts citizens at risk and the environment is being disturbed even more than it already is.
i'm paying carbon tax on the car tax, and we're paying a nova.
and will there be an increase in purchasing power for our consumers if we put more money into renewable energy and energy efficiency?
i have to say, madam president, i think the epp has made it very clear in these negotiations that we are not only in the energy sector for setting incentives best practice, scoreboard, mapping for the consumer.
rules are necessary to create clarity and legal certainty for the crypto ecosystem.
mass migration happens when there's war, when there's hunger, when climate change is driving people to flee.
we are discussing the fact that the powers of this world want to influence elections in europe and thus the climate of public opinion.
two points i would like to make critically are, firstly, the compensation for damage by a voucher solution - i think that is counterproductive and also not feasible - and secondly, i think that the amendments tabled by mr cramer are counterproductive, which are a complete misunderstanding of the subject, when he says that he wants information on co2 emissions on the ticket.
for environmental reasons alone, we must ensure that the incentives to switch to environmentally friendly modes of transport are not reduced but increased.
they have today unveiled their net-zero emissions strategy for 2050. full decarbonisation is estimated to cost eur 290 billion per year and is expected to have a positive impact of 2% of economic output by 2050. so some industries - particularly those that depend on fossil fuels - may go completely out of business in this scenario, but that's what's being bought.
the member states are also making enormous efforts to achieve climate neutrality, with only a fifth of the co2 emissions being reduced so far.
even if the measures recently agreed at eu level, such as the expansion of renewable energy, energy efficiency and emissions trading reform, were implemented, emissions would be reduced by 60% by 2050. this is still far from the 100% limit of the 0% scenario.
the way to do this is through a higher co2 price, up to €68 per tonne, says the emissions gap report.
so i ask you: let us act here globally in harmony with other regions, let us not do the energy transition alone.
let europe lead the way towards a climate-neutral economy but in harmony with the others.
i believe that the sustainable development goals play a very important role in this area: no.
2 safe food, sustainable food; no 6 sanitation, clean water; no 7 renewable energy.
but especially in view of the climate conference in katowice - where you see the dependence of the entire economy, the entire city, on coal from this old fossil fuel - it is clear that we need to push forward the development and innovation of renewable energy sources, and that we need to support not only poland in its move away from coal, but all the regions of europe in their move away from coal.
and to the climate deniers, or to those who deny that we have man-made climate change, even though the science is very clear, i want to say to them: just because you repeat nonsense often enough, it's still nonsense.
i have to say, madam president, good news for the working people of europe: diesel emissions are limited at the workplace.
in the 21st century, people should no longer die from workplace emissions.
it shall support the development of high-performing, sustainable and efficiently interconnected trans-european networks in the fields of transport, energy and digital services.
cef investments are instrumental in helping to bridge the gaps in europe's energy, transport and digital backbones.
in doing so, cef investments benefit people in all member states by making travel easier and more sustainable, helping to increase energy security in europe and expand the renewable energy portfolio, and facilitating cross-border interaction between public administrations, businesses and citizens.
the inea has been the gateway to financing under the cef since january 2014. inea is responsible for the bulk of the cef programme budget, totalling eur 27.4 billion of eur 30.4 billion (eur 22.4 billion for transport, eur 4.7 billion for energy and eur 0.3 billion for telecommunications).
in the age of digitalisation, it is also important for europe to move forward, and of course in a sustainable way.
i am pleased that so many of the messages today have referred to the fact that digitisation and sustainability are compatible and that sustainability for the labour market, for society and, of course, for the environment, must be broad-based.
the debate shows on the one hand that only together can we fight against tax havens, against tax evasion and for tax justice in a sustainable way.
– madam president, i’m very glad to be speaking today as rapporteur for the digital europe programme which is in fact the first pan-european programme for digital investment of approximately eur 9.2 billion that will be deployed within the next multiannual financial framework between 2021 and 2027. first of all, let me thank the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) shadows for the effective, positive and very smooth cooperation we had in committee negotiations.
and in accordance with rule 59, as rapporteur, i would like to propose that the matter be referred back to the committee on industry, research and energy for interinstitutional negotiations.