they tried to get energy on the aeroplane as low as possible and, as it were, threw away everything that was not necessary.
so you had a very energy-efficient aeroplane and then it could fly on solar.
make sure that we have a very high level of energy efficiency, and then it is possible to achieve a high level of renewables, of which in the long run – though not too long – we will need 100%.
that is why i am very proud of my political group with two excellent rapporteurs on energy efficiency and renewables.
we fought for the 40%, and i still hope that we can achieve a majority in parliament in favour because this not only goes together with our achievements and our commitment to the paris agreement, but it is also something that can boost our economy, create jobs and ensure that energy poverty is tackled – which is also something very important to my political group.
finally, the transition to a zero-carbon economy must avoid false solutions.
we cannot accept solutions which are not contributing to real greenhouse gas reductions or, by doing a sort of collateral damage, have a negative effect on our natural environment and our biodiversity.
so it is very important that we all agree on palm oil – ok – but we must also be agreed on forests and on the fact that we cannot use stamps and round wood as a source of green energy; i hope we can find a majority on that very important issue as well.
i’m not sure – because that was one of the difficulties – that i understood your question fully, because we had a lot of discussions in our group on how to calculate the energy efficiency – the primary energy, the end energy – and i know your views on that.
we have the opportunity to put in place an ambitious but realistic energy policy.
moreover, we must not forget that the ultimate goal is to achieve the climate targets.
so what's the point of advocating 35 or 40 percent renewable energy if the raw materials used are not sustainable?
this technique, which is banned in most of the world (many countries including the united states, brazil, uruguay and china have banned it after serious environmental consequences were observed), is dangerous for the ecosystem, a disgrace to europe and discredits us on the international stage.
more needs to be done to develop, support and encourage sustainable activities rather than to fuel a controversial practice.
mr president, commissioner, while the reflection paper presented by the commission for the chapter on sustainable development was supposed to be a neutral document, the option you have clearly chosen is to continue with an ineffective model, which you certainly want to improve, but which is ineffective nonetheless.
furthermore, the discussions we have had in the framework of ceta, in which you have committed yourself to reviewing the chapter 'sustainable development', clearly show that this chapter, as provided for in the current trade agreements, does not meet our expectations in terms of respect for social and environmental rights.
in its opinion on singapore, the european court of justice also stated that the 'sustainable development' chapter is intended to govern trade between the union and its partners by making the liberalisation of trade conditional on the parties respecting their international obligations in the fields of social protection, workers' protection and the environment.
it also added that a party is entitled to terminate or suspend the liberalisation of such trade in the event of a breach by one of the parties of provisions on social, labour and environmental protection.
the credibility of the european commission, which is seriously committed to this policy of sustainable development, is therefore at stake.
the european union is obliged to respect human rights, workers' rights and environmental standards in its trade policy.
the inclusion of sustainable development chapters in its trade agreements is therefore a very good development.
the great danger is that it will be reduced to fine words and that good intentions regarding working conditions, respect for environmental standards and human rights will remain dead letters.
i call on the european commission to adopt binding provisions on human rights, workers' rights and environmental standards.
in this way trade with countries where workers' rights and environmental concerns are being questioned will no longer be tolerated.
this chapter will then no longer exist merely formally, but will also be an effective way of strengthening more sustainable trade.
europe has a choice here – either to become leaders in the ecological transition of all societies, thereby becoming solution providers to the rest of the world – or to stick with the past, thereby becoming solution takers from the rest of the world.
yet, taoiseach, your government has been sorely lacking ambition on tackling climate change.
you said when you became prime minister that climate action would be your first priority.
this year ireland was ranked as europe’s worst performer in tackling climate change.
on a similar line, prime minister, your government opposes the waste reduction bill proposed by the irish greens, which only aims at bringing your country on a par with best practices across europe on the way to a more circular economy.
come on, taoiseach, with its abundant resources for renewable energy, ireland has the potential to be a pioneer in green transformation.
it is not just our excessive ecological footprint, but also ballooning inequalities that threaten the very existence of all civilised societies.
taoiseach, if you can deploy the same leadership on ecological transition and on tax justice as the one that you have deployed here, you will have done a lot for the european union.
what a waste of money!
it is very important that the commission proposes to ensure that all plastic packaging is recyclable by 2030. look at that alongside the wonderful work that our rapporteur simona bonafè and the others have done on the waste package and the circular economy.
we also need to invest in waste prevention, in thoughtful product design, in new business models.
the fact that european companies and european member states are still signing contracts with kabila for energy supply, infrastructure and military cooperation is cynical and contributes to the political crisis in the congo.
in order to do so, we shall be ready to use not only dialogue and constructive support but also the sanctions instrument, if and when that proves to be the only effective way to create incentives for an environment conducive to elections.
the reformed ets is undoubtedly one of the absolute pillars of european climate policy.
the aim of the ets is to provide incentives to companies and also the energy sector to produce and consume energy in a sustainable way while avoiding carbon leakage.
we all know what carbon leakage is.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the european carbon market needs to operate better and more efficiently to further stimulate climate-friendly investment.
at the same time, we must avoid companies moving out of europe to third countries where climate regulations are less strict, because then we lose twice: we're losing jobs and we're not doing anything for the climate.
the european union is taking the lead in the fight against climate change.
the agreement is certainly a step forward on this point compared with the original commission proposal, but we think that the protection against carbon leakage should have gone even further.
a low-carbon europe is achieved not only through a workable system of emission allowances, but also through a clear commitment to innovative solutions to the climate problem in and outside europe.
all the energy of the international players must now be directed towards the geneva peace process, and not towards waging wars which undermine this process.
let’s not waste this historic opportunity.
the need to make labour markets more flexible, to put public services and social protection under pressure, to relax any legislation that would weaken or handicap our businesses, even when it comes to protecting health or the environment, is fashionable, with the aim of improving public finances and achieving greater economic efficiency.
but at a time when africa's population is exploding, when the effects of global warming are being felt, when china is taking a share of africa's wealth for its own benefit, we cannot resign ourselves to the fact that the outcasts of this continent have no choice but to go into exile in europe.
i think it is also worth noting as well that this parliament voted in very substantial numbers to approve a proposal from the commission in relation to the banning in ecological focus areas of the use of pesticides, and this has made a major impact – a positive impact – in relation to the application of this new rule, in my view, in 2018 in terms of what will happen where more than 10% of the total arable area of the european union will now have a ban on pesticides in these areas.
europe must do everything possible to avoid the environmental disaster that could result from the disappearance of bees.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
there is an important tool that can be used, namely the chapter on sustainable development, which also provides for the application of sanctions.
today there is a chapter on sustainable development.
this resolution on gender equality in eu trade agreements marks the european parliament's determination to modernise and rethink its trade policies by ensuring everyone's livelihoods, protecting the environment and ecosystems.
and they do so with respect for the environment and with respect for the rules in force.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think we can say that europeans rightly expect the european union to work on security, social protection, defence and, of course, climate action.
it decided to place greater emphasis on integrating the social rights and environmental pillar into the guidelines of its recommendations.
as we know, the european citizen is looking for a stable and healthy socioeconomic climate, the main objective of which must be full employment.
europe remains the richest continent in the world, with still considerable development potential, for example in the field of energy transition, but it is essential that our socioeconomic instruments serve the cause of citizens, their jobs and their well-being.
we insist that the budgetary guidelines, at national and euro-area level, must ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances and their sound management.
we then discussed the issue of structural reforms, particularly to strengthen the youth guarantee, the importance of education policies, aid to micro-enterprises and the guarantee of the sustainability of social security systems.
if we are to make europe relevant to peoples’ daily lives, we need to achieve good results on growth and jobs, high-quality education, social protection and inclusion, as well as environmental sustainability.
let us continue to work together to stimulate social investment and human capital, to lift the remaining barriers, and to foster a truly favourable investment climate.
furthermore, we need to support growth with smart fiscal policies while paying close attention to the long-term sustainability of our budgets and debts.
environmental policy, together with the greening economy and greening the european semester can contribute in a very significant manner to the broad policy objectives of stimulating sustainable growth and creating jobs.
the environmental implementation review initiative will be again on the council’s agenda next year.
we must make sure that today’s growth is inclusive and sustainable and that our economies and societies are prepared to harness the opportunities and address the challenges that technology and globalisation bring.
for this we need investment, not just in infrastructure but also in human capital, research and innovation, and this requires ensuring an investment-friendly environment including by tackling corruption and ensuring respect for the rule of law.
in terms of fiscal policy, we stress the need for the right balance between supporting growth and ensuring sustainable public finances.
we see that the imbalances are receding in the context of a favourable economic environment.
secondly, sound fiscal policy is essential for sustainable economic growth.
it is therefore high time, if we are to be truly effective, that we analysed our economic policies from the social and environmental standpoints, and i am of course very pleased about this.
products that are not produced using the cleanest production technologies are subject to additional costs, as in the european ets, the eu's emissions trading system.
from this point of view, mr prime minister, it cannot be said that portugal is at this stage a leader in the ecological transition.
we believe it is crucial for europe to be at the forefront of the green transition of the economy, not only to respond to climate imperatives, but to become a provider of solutions to the rest of the world.
you talk about taxing digital platforms, you also talk about all forms of pollution taxation, and the financial transaction tax falls into that category.
we are not doing enough to meet the stated targets for basic infrastructure by 2025. with some 130 000 alternative charging and refuelling points and just 5% of vehicles powered by alternative energy, we still have a long way to go.
i would add that we will only be able to make a sustainable transition to low-emission mobility if we combine strong ambition with a realistic approach.
this is the only way to arm ourselves against the global competition in low-carbon vehicles and technologies.
finally, i call on the transport sector, the energy sector and all the public authorities in the eu to do their bit.
(applause)
i think that karl-heinz florenz is entitled to speak a little longer now and then because of his record, but we also worked together a long time ago on electrical and electronic waste, and that is a little bit of a precursor to what we are discussing today.
it is also very important that it is embedded in the waste directive, in the overall philosophy of the circular economy.
the issues at stake are important and numerous, and i am convinced that the upcoming interinstitutional negotiations will be key to ensuring that the eu keeps being a major global actor: standing strong for its values, promoting its interests and effectively assisting its partners so as to jointly ensure a safer and more sustainable future for all.
- the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0406 - c4-0177/97).
this instrument is not only a waste of money, it is also a flagrant violation of important principles such as subsidiarity and sovereignty.
we know, and you know, that europe must be at the forefront of the ecological transition, starting with its budget, which must be its instrument.
to the country of the climate agreement, i would add a fourth term, namely 'sustainability'.
you say you want the carbon tax, the end of glyphosate, the end of diesel cars, bravo!
but at the same time you remain a fervent supporter of the current free trade agreements and, even worse, of nuclear energy.
i say this to you: whenever you advance the cause of freedom, equality and fraternity in europe, whenever you take action for a fairer, more sustainable and more democratic europe, we will stand by you.
you can see it very clearly: in 2006, the five most important, largest and most powerful companies were all energy and oil companies.
it is only through good cooperation between the member states and europe that we will be able to protect our public health, our environment and, in short, the european citizen.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty.
a proposal for lower emissions and cleaner air for our children and grandchildren is therefore a proposal i support.
i think there have been good proposals on carbon taxation, plastics, corporate tax, and there is mr bullmann’s proposal that you can take with you.
firstly, to ensure the better functioning of the internal market, which is the case in particular with the own resources provided for in the framework of the consolidated corporate tax base, and secondly, to protect the environment and combat global warming, which is the case with the two proposals you have mentioned.
but what is crucial for us is that, if you asked me what are the two main challenges that europe should face and handle and tackle, i would say they are the growing inequalities in the world and in europe, and climate change.
we’ve made an agreement in the framework of the united nations and it’s called sdgs, and in your introduction, mr commissioner, neither you or juncker mentioned the stgs, and i think it’s so extremely important that we use this budget to make sure that all the money that we spend in all these sectors is used to come up with good results on the sustainable development goals.
security, effective border control, innovation in sustainable energy connections and self-driving cars, social protection: these are the areas where europe can make a difference.
when we talk about the future of europe, we want more ambition in the social pillar, madam commissioner, we want fair taxation, we want to be a proud europe in the rest of the world and we want to implement the sustainable development goals when we talk about the multiannual financial framework.
military waste.
it is not big enough to face the climate challenge or the power of multinationals.
president, we dream of a belgium which is the leader of the ecological transition and which is the key to our prosperity and the future of future generations.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'sustainable solutions' to cover the whole of the eu.
we are working towards energy independence for europe, and we will no longer rely on gas from russia and oil from saudi arabia.
but alas, belgium has lost all credibility because of the paris climate conference.
the european commission has set up a climate policy for the eu, but it has little ambition.
i have no lesson to learn from a political party in belgium that caused the photovoltaic bubble in the energy sector by sending billions of euros in bills to the walloon taxpayers.
we have made a clear choice: get out of nuclear energy in 2025. is that easy?
belgium is the second country after france to have introduced green bonds: €5 billion mobilised from belgium in support of the energy transition.
as we know today, the current agreements do not spare farmers or the climate.
i think the only way to advance this cause of social and environmental protection is to have "sustainable development" chapters with sanctions in trade agreements.
so what is belgium's position so that you can finally reconcile your economic liberalism with your stated desire to protect both social and environmental standards, and at the same time your farmers.
you are right, there are three of us here to demonstrate how important the mobility issues and all the packages we presented to you are for the commission, and you are also right that it was a collective effort and the result of very good energy union team spirit.
following the intervention of ms dalli regarding the achievement of our target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% compared with 1990 by 2030, let me start with some clarifications and explain how the transport sector will contribute.
for sure, the commission is putting forward a different set of proposals in order to achieve those targets, but in the new effort sharing regulation, we set out binding national greenhouse gas emission targets for the period 2021-2030 for member states.
these targets cover all the sectors of the economy that fall outside the scope of the european union emissions trading system, including road transport.
with our 2017 proposals for post-2020 emissions standards for cars and vans, this difference gets significantly smaller – it shrinks to four percentage points, and the gap could be progressively closed by one percentage point with the implementation of the proposed co2 standards for lorries, which have to reduce their emissions by 30% compared with 2019 by 2030. the remaining gap will be addressed through other additional policies with impact on road transport greenhouse gas emissions.
these concern, for example, the minimum share of renewable fuels in transport, which is proposed by the commission in the revision of the renewable energy directive as well as the proposals for the eurovignette, clean vehicles and combined transport directives.
with all this legislation, we will make sure that transport also contributes to achieving our 40% minimum reduced emissions target by 2030. to conclude, let me stress that the commission has tabled ambitious and realistic proposals which we think strike the right balance between environmental, consumer and employment objectives.
that is why the commission would like to call on our colleagues later and all the stakeholders to work closely together to ensure the swift adoption and implementation of the proposal for co2 emissions standards for lorries – so that the benefits for european union industry, businesses and citizens can be maximised and generated as soon as possible.
zero fatalities on european roads, zero pollution from european transport and zero red tape in mobility solutions by 2050. i know it’s ambitious, but it is achievable if we join our forces and we are really serious about delivering on this objective.
of course we must close our borders, we must invest more in our security, we must create a growth-friendly climate and we should spend much less time on energy and environmental issues and all other issues.
to move towards more sustainable fisheries.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
two, by what we're discussing here tonight: the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
i am also pleased that your government has given the ecological transition a greater place in public policy.
i would like to emphasize the positive role played by carole dieschbourg at the paris climate conference.
it is quite logical that on the climate front your government supports the european parliament's position, which is much more ambitious than that of the council and the commission.
in this area, you are committing luxembourg to renewable energy, but also to a spatial planning policy that respects our common assets: soil, air and water.
mr prime minister, i would like to conclude by dedicating my speech to camille gira, your secretary of state for sustainable development, who died on 16 may.
he was a pioneer of political ecology in your country, notably by turning his village of beckerich into a showcase for ecology, with 100% renewable energy, but above all with unprecedented citizen participation.
its model of citizen-led ecological transition has inspired many green proxies across europe.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
this means taking into account all environmental impacts on biodiversity, water, soil, air, noise and, of course, energy consumption during product design.
i would say that this is logical, since this phase of product manufacture is responsible for 80% of environmental pollution and 90% of the costs for producers.
in 2005 i was already rapporteur on the first framework directive on the subject , the objective at the time was limited and aimed solely at reducing greenhouse gas emissions by improving energy efficiency.
today, we can no longer focus solely on this energy efficiency issue.
europe must change its paradigm and act on better use of resources and on the recyclability of products, an ambition that was very widely shared by the members of the environment committee, who adopted, by near unanimity, on 25 april, my report on the implementation of the 2009 directive.
eco-design requirements for a range of energy-intensive products have borne fruit: i am thinking of air heaters, boilers, computers, lamps, televisions and household appliances in general.
the eco-design policy, coupled also, it must be said, with the energy labelling legislation, is generating savings that are greater than italy's annual energy consumption, nothing less, or 175 million tonnes of oil equivalent.
if we take the analysis to a level closer to us, that is to say to consumers, this represents a saving of 490 euros per household per year on energy bills.
but on the whole, the reasons for satisfaction are there and lead us, of course, to look further and to want, firstly, to extend eco-design measures to energy-related products, which have the greatest potential for saving, such as solar panels, refrigerated containers and hand dryers.
their environmental record also needs to be improved.
for the rest, i think our discussions have shown how taking account of environmental impacts throughout the life cycle of products is meeting our needs today, without compromising the ability of our children to meet their needs tomorrow.
ecodesign and energy labelling are often portrayed by eurosceptics as absurd, pointless european interference.
but with these two regulations we can meet half our energy saving target by 2020, reduce co2 emissions by 320 million tonnes a year and the bills of every european family by 500 euros, generate 55 billion euros for our industry and create 800 000 new jobs.
ecological design must include more products and more criteria.
the focus is now on energy consumption alone.
we want to extend this to include sustainability aspects such as recyclability, use of recycled materials, recoverability, easy dismantling, availability of spare parts and regulation of rare or harmful raw materials.
this corresponds to the total energy production of the belgian nuclear power station.
cultural centres that continually invest in new, sustainable, greener equipment, we should reward rather than punish.
the two—plus—one is welcome, and they cannot complain about that; they have to run their businesses in a sustainable way.
but let us not forget the safety of passengers and the impact on man and the environment.
between wars and persecution, hunger, climate change and economic exploitation, the causes that drive human beings on the path to exile remain burning.
we have a strong interest in investing in the region, primarily in renewable energy and sustainable agriculture.
partners whose destinies are irrevocably and ideally linked in economic, environmental, industrial, ethical and political terms.
environmental challenges, demographic and population challenges, resource use challenges, transparency and governance challenges are challenges we share with these different countries and with the countries of the european union.
ivory trade is deadly to biodiversity and threatens to turn elephants and rhinos into 'living dinosaurs'.
it would allow us not to waste time in debate and to be able to speak about a country which is very dear to us here.
how else can we know exactly what is happening in our rural areas and what the impact of climate change, among other things, is, as well as the changing social climate in rural areas?
even though the survey was conducted in the immediate aftermath of the biggest wave of arrivals in europe, being protected from uncontrolled migration only comes fourth, right before being protected from climate change.
officially, the country is now out of the aid package, growth is back, tourism is back, the trade balance is in balance, everything is fine, except that for us, these eight years seem like an outrageous waste.
the european union should have put its investment tools at the service of the country's energy transition in such a way as to enable greece to be a net exporter of electricity from renewable sources.
i am thinking specifically of the energy sector, reforms of the administration and the fight against tax evasion.
third, we take our commitments to combat global warming seriously and say that climate spending must be increased in 2019 and 2020 if the union is to meet the target of 20% of the budget for the period 2014-2020. fourthly, we are fully aware of the scale of the problem posed by migration flows and the political pathologies that these flows are beginning to bring about.
the european contribution of over eur 1 billion between 2014 and 2020 through various funds has so far provided, inter alia: sustained economic growth with the lowest unemployment rates in ten years; intensive support for the transformation of heavy industry into a more service-oriented economy; sustainable economic activities the eu also plays a key role in the peace talks between ireland and northern ireland.
in future, we must ensure that investments are sustainable, that jobs are safeguarded and that the quality of life is improved.
the european court of justice has said in its opinion on singapore that the european union must integrate the objectives of preserving and improving the quality of the environment and sustainable resource management in its trade policy.
first, to establish a regulatory framework to apply transparency obligations throughout the supply of forest products at risk; second, to strengthen the sustainable development chapter with sanction mechanisms.
so, to fight climate change with voluntary measures is simply irresponsible.
that is why i call on the sense of responsibility of each of us in this parliament not to support the separate votes of certain members of this parliament, who would be committing suicide in relation to respect for the climate.
this time i will keep it moderate because i have to save my energy for mr orbán this afternoon, so please be aware of that, but you will certainly remember that i asked you a question at the end: how do you want to be remembered in history, as an electoral accident or as a revolutionary reformer?
but i am also very pleased to see here a greek prime minister with a lot of confidence, a greek prime minister who finds the energy to think about the future again.
how do we combat the climate problem and how do we ensure - as my group leader has already said - that they are looked at together?
my last argument and reason is mainly because, and i will recognise it – that doesn’t happen often – that the european union has been based on christian democratic principles, beliefs and energy for decades.
and last but not least, you said we would be top for climate change.
we did some things in the right direction but we lack the real ambition to have a sustainable future.
the second pillar is the european union's policy on the environment.
it is noble to clean up the rubbish of the past, but of course we must first of all ensure that we prevent plastic waste from ending up in the sea.
sometimes it disappears after a few seconds or minutes in the garbage bag, or worse, in the environment.
we produce almost 26 million tonnes of plastic waste in the european union every year, but only 30% of it is collected for recycling.
all this has disastrous consequences for the environment, the climate and the economy.
our ecosystems are suffering from pollution.
we're missing out on opportunities to reduce our carbon footprint.
the recent chinese ban on the import of plastic waste from the european union is also a slap in the face.
for years, in europe, we have outsourced our plastic waste problem for convenience.
so my report is not a plea against plastic, but a plea for a circular artificial economy, where we deal with plastic in a sustainable and responsible way, so that we can stop its harmful effects and preserve its value in the chain.
a few months ago, we passed ambitious new waste legislation here.
the prevention of plastic waste remains crucial.
the commission has now put forward a legislative proposal on this point, and we are working on it in the committee on the environment, together with my colleague frédérique ries and others.
i hope that tomorrow we will say 'yes' by a large majority to a new circular plastic economy that offers opportunities for the environment, climate and economy.
but today we have to face the fact that we are drowning in waste and our oceans are dying.
clearly, the sustainable solution is to reduce the production, the consumption of plastic.
every year, 500 000 tonnes of plastic waste are dumped into the seas of the european union, and this is no longer sustainable.
as rapporteur for itre, i have tried to find sustainable solutions.
these sustainable solutions, to me, lie in the following elements.
mobility accounts for a quarter of all emissions in the european union and remains the main cause of air pollution problems in our cities.
we will also need to show greater ambition to achieve our climate goals.
we have managed to negotiate overall compromises on all the paragraphs which alde supported in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) vote and which it will support in the plenary vote as well.
– mr president, this is an absolutely crucial file and that’s why, mr commissioner, we need more ambition than the commission proposal offers – to make sure that we can get our climate goals, but also to make sure that we can reduce the cost for consumers and improve the air quality in our member states.
that’s why i am so proud that, under the leadership of ms dalli, there are many issues on just transition within the proposal of the committee on environment, public health and food safety (envi) that we should all support.
to be left with all technology that is killing our people because of the effect on climate and air quality?
that’s why i’m really saddened that ms merkel, whom i respect a lot and who used to be a climate chancellor, will now miss her national climate targets by 2020 and 2030 by putting the brakes on this ambitious legislation.
we support at least 40% less co2 and 40% new green cars by 2030. this is indeed essential in the fight against climate change, but also for the air quality in our cities and our municipalities.
and when you put your proposal to the vote last year, i did not hide my disappointment in the chamber, and i stand by my position: weak co2 standards are undermining climate goals.
my own member state must reduce its co2 emissions by 35% by 2030. without the necessary technology to reduce co2 at source, this will not be possible and we fully support the demand for a technology-neutral greening of the new fleet.
i think we can all agree, mr president, that the transport sector must reduce its co2 emissions drastically.
we signed the paris climate agreement and i think we should now live up to our promises.
in short, ladies and gentlemen, a more ambitious reduction would be a very good thing to do, to send the signal to other continents too that we want to put our words into action and also continue to take the lead in tackling the climate problem.
we are disappointed that estonia is still among the oecd's most carbonintensive economies as it still produces the vast majority of its energy from shale oil, with disastrous results in terms of emissions and toxic waste.
however, we should keep in mind the significant risks this revolution carries in terms of civil liberties or, again, ecological impact.
indeed, far from being dematerialised, the digital universe is hungry for scarce resources whose extraction proves very damaging for the environment.
of course, the fight against climate change demands it, but our jobs, our balance of payment, our strategic independence and our competitiveness depend on it.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the it puts belarus a mere 155th on the world press freedom index, which is a list of countries that have banned the use of the internet.
we risk major humanitarian catastrophes and climate conflicts, triggering new waves of climate refugees, for instance, and we risk a rise in human suffering all over the world.
it is very important that we as europe take up our responsibilities, and we need to step up our reduction targets for 2030, but, commissioners – in the plural – we need also to ensure climate neutrality for 2050. that is why we as a group urge the commission to come up with an updated 2050 strategy that is really paris-proof.
yes, climate change and biodiversity loss, they are two global crises that are closely intertwined.
investing in nature and biodiversity must be at the heart of a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe.
in fact, in addition to the overwhelming intrinsic value of nature, biodiversity offers invaluable socioeconomic benefits.
it is more than two and a half years since we approved my report on biodiversity here in this house.
however, on climate policy, the co-legislators have only just agreed on an ambitious legislative framework by 2030. and ambition is necessary, but we also like to combine that with realism.
we want much more money to be spent on combating global warming.
today, this story is turning into a nightmare: 8 billion tonnes produced in less than 65 years for 6 billion tonnes of waste.
and the 51 members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety who supported my report in the vote, have a realistic objective - i want to stress this - which is to ban this single-use plastic where a sustainable alternative exists, such as paper, bamboo, glass, cornstarch, etc.
we add in this case expanded polystyrene packaging, which is found in fast food, oxidized bags, which break down under the influence of light and therefore contribute to marine pollution, and ultralight bags, i.e.
for fishing gear, nets, ropes, etc., which are responsible for 27% of marine pollution, this is a priority.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has also supported my wish to include the fight against environmental damage from tobacco in this report.
it is now, ladies and gentlemen, that we must make this choice for the environment, for the generations that follow us and also for the millions, the tens of millions of europeans who are mobilized, who are watching us and who are ready to consume differently.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
disposable plastic ends up in nature and the environment in large quantities, out here, along the side of the road, in the berms, in the locks and rivers and finally in our seas, resulting in the familiar plastic soup.
we need to make a full commitment to sustainable and responsible management of plastics throughout the value chain.
on biodegradable plastics, i have here a report from the united nations, the title of which is: "biodegradable plastics, a false solution to marine pollution".
furthermore, there is no reliable or even official standard in the marine environment.
money and time you could have spent on what the public really cares about: the european union has a long-term strategy to reduce migration, ensure our security and create a job-friendly environment.
we have also been and continue to be a party to calls for more support for erasmus+ and research, and for more cooperation on climate and defence.
in reality, our reading of things is that our societies are threatened by two time bombs: on the one hand, growing inequalities and, on the other, an ecological footprint that exceeds what our planet can support.
we have written that at the united nations level, with the so-called sustainable development goals.
it would therefore be good if the commission were to come forward with a proposal to radically change the european semester and to apply the sustainable development objectives.
this means that budgetary objectives are not more important than social or environmental objectives.
between climate change and growing inequalities, conflict and persecution at our borders, the threat of terrorism, the impact of the digital revolution and the exorbitant power of multinationals, it is hard to say that our union is facing existential challenges in a world where its friends are becoming scarcer.
as an environmentalist, i would be tempted to make fun of co2 emissions and the brussels deadlock caused by yet another inconsequential european summit.
despite the savings in social security and despite pensions which are among the lowest, the raising of the retirement age and of electricity, water and fuel prices, despite the energy policy of a third world country, belgium is underperforming.
and now i would like to invoke our rules of procedure, namely rule 59 (4), fourth subparagraph, to ask for the green light to refer the matter back to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and then to allow me to open the interinstitutional negotiations at the beginning of november.
mr president, we are all concerned about the use of veterinary medicines, since they have a direct impact on our diet, the environment and our health.
– madam president, as has been mentioned, tomorrow we will be voting on three very important reports on the clean energy package.
this package represents the most important work done in the field of energy in this term, and it defines the way forward for our energy landscape for the next decade.
it has been a tough battle for parliament to succeed, as we all know and as has been mentioned, on the energy efficiency and the renewable goals.
this again is proof that this parliament is of utmost importance to keep ambitions very high, and in that sense the regulation on governance is very important, especially given the absence of national binding targets on energy efficiency and renewable energy.
the governance regulation provides the commission with the tool to integrate and evaluate the national energy and climate plan.
it is extremely important to step them up because, as we know, the proposals that are in front of us are a first step but are not enough to meet our climate objectives to keep the temperature well below the 2 degrees – and, you know, that should be 1.5 degrees.
this package deals with the goals towards the 2030 targets, and in that context of climate and energy targets, that means tomorrow.
reaching our climate and energy goals, as well as each of the sdgs, in a socially just manner, is the top priority of the s&d group, and we shall put these challenges not just here, but in all the files that we negotiate: for instance, the multiannual financial framework is the next step to come.
the last but very crucial point for our group is the requirement of combating energy poverty that we managed to get into the energy efficiency and into the government’s report.
it’s the first time – and very important – that very specific obligations aimed at people living in energy poverty have been enshrined in european legislation.
- ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will take a major step towards more renewable energy and greater energy efficiency in the european union.
in countries where progress has been made, such as germany with the energiewende, we see that the hoped-for results for the environment will not be achieved in the first decades, unless we want to burden the germans with a huge bill.
the eu accounts for barely 10% of global emissions.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
and secondly: just energy transition fund, i think that is really necessary, also to prove to people that europe is also there to protect the citizens.
our union is facing greater challenges than ever before, such as migration, climate change, disruptive technologies and unstable regions on the union's borders.
the key guidelines for this are our commitments under the paris agreement and the sustainable development goals (sdgs).
the social democrats in parliament have succeeded in getting the other groups to agree to a 30% specific allocation of expenditure to achieving climate objectives.
we want a european budget in which all investments contribute to a social and sustainable europe, which puts the citizen at the centre.
the integration of a bankrupt communist state into the bundesrepublik – and that was an enormous endeavour – and by doing so all the energy, all the efforts went to this new gigantic task.
but by doing so – and that’s my message that i want to give, chancellor – by doing so, the more traditional, the more – how shall i put it – post—war german ambition so typical for adenauer, so typical for genscher, so typical for kohl, to build always an ever closer union on this continent, lost traction and also energy.
as much as a quarter of co2 emissions in road transport come from trucks.
if we're going to effectively meet our climate commitments and reduce our carbon emissions by 40 percent by 2030, we just need those standards.
first, there is the misunderstanding of the large number of lay doctors who simply do not have the tools to detect this disease in time, even though it already affects one million europeans, a number that is constantly increasing, especially because of climate change.
bloggers, pro-democracy activists, social and environmental rights activists are being persecuted, raped, tortured, arbitrarily arrested, sentenced to heavy sentences up to the death penalty.
but we have to stop the waste of money on defence in europe: we are spending 40% of what the americans spend on their army but we are incapable of doing 10% what the american army does.
when denmark comes into the conversation, many good things spring to mind: the global champion of renewable energy, a world leader in development aid, a country that has the guts to confront russia’s power plays by saying ‘no’ to nord stream 2 (and for that thank you), and a country where the social partners are strong and which invented flexicurity as a way to give security to workers and flexibility to employers, and not the other way round.
let me start with the ecological and just transition.
it is an environmental imperative, a social necessity, a geopolitical aspiration, but also – and you mentioned this – an economic opportunity not to be missed.
one could expect denmark to share in that aspiration towards leadership – and listening to you, i tend to believe this – and we praise you for pushing europe to the most ambitious standards for instance on co2 emissions for cars.
but your country – and this is a bit surprising – ranks fifth in europe in terms of carbon footprint by household.
if you don’t change political course, the non-renewable part of your energy mix is actually expected to increase, and thus your co2 emissions would rise and not fall.
prime minister, when people forcibly leave their country, it is because they are fleeing wars, persecution, climate change, natural resource exhaustion or their social and economic conditions.
but we can do much more to fight climate change, to have a fairer global economic system, and to promote democracy and the rule of law instead of supporting tyrannies, notably by selling them weapons and buying natural resources extracted with little respect for the local communities.
and there is no doubt that greater efforts to improve energy efficiency and renewable energy are part of that.
there is a lot that could be done if all europeans washed at 10 degrees below what we normally do, that is equivalent to the total capacity of all german nuclear power stations - that is, if we washed at 30 degrees instead of 40 degrees - and similar calculations could be made on energy renewal.
– madam president, under this mandate we focused primarily on what needs to be done for the clean energy transition between now and 2030, and by the end of it, also thanks to the great cooperation we had with this house, we will have delivered on all our commitments.
climate change is already impacting on the european union.
and this is just the beginning: a planet with a climate that’s out of control would not be a safe and prosperous home, and we have to act.
today we are therefore looking further ahead towards 2050 and towards a climate-neutral europe, not only to contribute but to lead on the paris goals.
parliament called for an ambitious mid-century zero emission strategy for the eu, providing a cost-efficient pathway towards a net zero carbon economy in the union by 2050 at the latest.
the commission has taken up this challenge and we are starting from a good basis: we have reduced emissions by 22% while our economy grew by 58% since 1990 and this was accomplished by investing in clean energies, energy efficiency, innovation and cleaner transport.
we have seen that this not only produces benefits for the environment and therefore for the citizens, but that it also creates growth and jobs.
under this commission we have learned how to better integrate climate, energy, transport and other policies into the energy union and we are the world leader in designing coherent policies that drive investment, and investment that delivers results.
the strategy looks at all the key economic sectors, at innovation, finance, agriculture, the circular economy, trade... in short, how to make climate neutrality a cornerstone of a modern european economy fit for the 21st century that will leave the planet clean.
climate neutrality in 2050 will require additional investment – eur 175 to 290 billion a year – but it will drastically reduce our bill for fossil fuel imports, which today is eur 266 billion a year.
the mathematics are clear, instead of paying to burn fuels that pollute our climate and our air, we can invest in cleaner and modern european industries that provide good local jobs.
there is widespread public support for climate action and actually widespread optimism: 85% of europeans agree that fighting climate change and using energy more efficiently can create economic growth and jobs in europe, and i am one of them.
– madam president, the long-term strategy adopted by the commission today spells out a clear vision for the european union climate and energy policy, one that can lead to net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, through a socially fair transition in a cost-efficient manner.
the strategy is meant to set the direction of travel for european union climate efforts and to frame the european union contribution to achieving the paris agreement goals.
if we are to avoid the more disastrous impact of climate change we should seek to limit it to 1.5°c.
the ipcc report also told us what we have to do collectively to limit climate change.
the world will have to go to net zero greenhouse emissions in the second half of the century, but if the aim is to pursue 1.5° this goal needs to be reached at global level by 2070. the european union should lead in this transformation, demonstrating to others that the transition to net zero greenhouse gas emissions is possible and opens up many opportunities, and this is what the commission is doing today.
with this strategy, the european union would become the first major economy to be climate neutral.
if we do not lead, nobody else will, and if nobody else acts unrestrained climate change will severely impact europe and rest of the world.
some pathways are looking at reductions going to 80% by 2050, while others look into pathways leading to net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. the results clearly point to a comprehensive vision with seven key strategic building blocks that will be required to achieve a net zero greenhouse gas economy by 2050. first, energy efficiency plays a central role.
in the future our economy will grow but we need to prepare for reducing energy consumption by as much as a half compared to 2005. energy efficiency is central to continue reducing emissions from industry but equally in the housing sectors.
by 2050 more than 80% of electricity will be coming from renewable energy sources and these will have beneficial effects on our security of energy supply and deliver cumulative savings on our import bill of between eur 2 and 3 trillion over the period 2031-2050. there will also be additional benefits due to the reduced fugitive emissions of fossil fuels used in the energy sector and in this context, the commission is looking into policy options for addressing methane emissions.
a central tenet here is the electrification of our energy system, at least doubling its share in final energy demand by 2050 and with electricity generated by renewable sources, spreading to more uses such as heating and transport.
these, together with clean public transport, have the potential to reduce emissions and improve the quality of life.
steel, cement and chemicals dominate industrial emissions and in the next 10 to 15 years technologies already known in these sectors will need to be demonstrated at a scale to facilitate investment in clean and competitive industrial installations.
the transformation will require an adequate smart network infrastructure and interconnections and we need also to harmonise the potential of the bio-economy while preserving our carbon sinks.
european union agriculture and forestry will continue to provide food, feed and fibres as well reduce emissions.
continued efficiency improvements, better fertiliser application and nutrient management, and healthy animal stocks will benefit both farmers and the climate.
and finally, we need to look into how to tackle with carbon capture and storage those co2 emissions which we cannot otherwise reduce.
thanks to the rapid deployment of renewable energy this is no longer the silver bullet to decarbonising.
still, ccs has a crucial role to close the circle for a net-zero economy, notably for energy intensive industries.
if combined with sustainable biomass it could create negative emissions, helping to compensate for remaining emissions in our economy.
while by no means easy, these options, if deployed together, can make our path towards net-zero greenhouse gas emissions a reality.
the european union climate policy relies on global cooperation and next week’s conference of the parties – cop 24 – is decisive for the future of the paris agreement.
we have adopted all the legislation needed for implementing our paris contribution and our 2030 targets are projected to reduce greenhouse emissions by around 45% by 2030, which is the starting point for long-term planning.
with the strategic vision that we adopted today we can also show our partners that we have started preparing for a climate-neutral economy fully in line with the paris agreement.
in the months ahead our proposals and different pathways should be studied in detail to understand how the european union can best achieve a net-zero greenhouse gas emission economy in 2050 in a cost-effective way.
this plan is indeed timely, on the eve of the climate conference in katowice.
we also support your proposals to achieve carbon storage.
aviation will be one of the biggest threats to our climate in the coming years.
the corsia negotiations (on the carbon offsetting and reduction scheme for international aviation) are in danger of being boycotted and eroded.
workers whose jobs are threatened in the automotive industry or in coalfields should be assured that we will guide them in the transition to a low-carbon economy.
yes, we can take the right decision to go to a fully climate-neutral economy.
we should not say these are climate sceptics.
i liked your speech and i hope that next time, if we vote on co2 car emissions or energy efficiency that we have your support to do so.
we need to change the european semester, take ecological and social indicators into account and change the way we govern the european union.
there is also still too little emphasis on sustainability and social challenges.
of course, this agreement is not perfect; as far as we greens/efa are concerned, we would have liked to see something more than non-regression clauses on social and environmental matters as a condition for the uk staying in the customs union, and the political declaration should, again, have been more explicit about conditioning our future relationship on the uk not becoming a tax haven or a money laundering country.
president, investing in nature and biodiversity must be at the heart of an inclusive, sustainable and smart europe.
today we have the opportunity to put our words into action, because the life programme is the only programme that specifically focuses on nature and climate action.
it is essential that we support member states in their transition to a sustainable, circular and low-carbon society.
– madam president, first of all, i would like to thank everyone for their support and i hope that you too agree that the new life programme will help us to promote sustainability, environment, nature, climate and clean energy transition objectives across the programmes of the 2021—2027 long—term budget.
and as i already mentioned, life is not meant to solve all environmental and climate funding problems on its own.
this instrument is to ensure that the new multiannual financial framework (mff) will support the environment and climate across all its instruments.
also, let us not forget that the commission has allocated a lot of money for the environment, in addition to the life programme, and not to mention the amount of investment coming from individual member states as well.
the mff already provides finance for the environment through the mainstreaming of policies into other environmental policies and other policies.
it is in everyone’s interest to ensure that every single euro that is spent in the cap, every single euro which is spent in the structural funds, for example, is contributing to nature and environmental policies.
with regard to the cap, i have full confidence that our farmers want to be part of the solution when it comes to protecting nature and the environment.
but i still feel there is perhaps the need to push more integrated life projects towards the ocean environment, towards ocean biodiversity and towards ocean sustainability.
i would like to once again thank mr gerben—jan gerbrandy, all the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) for their excellent work, and i would like to thank all the speakers today for their contribution.
with the mandate given to me by parliament, i have advocated the inclusion of diesel emissions, which affect millions of workers.
that is the only recipe for a sustainable european project.
what is the current state of sustainable development, social and environmental rights?
once again, today in this house, a majority of you are convinced that these social and environmental rights should be optional in free trade agreements.
why is it that in the eu-japan agreement all chapters are binding with sanctions, except for social and environmental rights?
i think this is a missed opportunity to integrate trade into a strategy that respects social and environmental law.
you know, ladies and gentlemen, that free trade agreements are one of the fixing points of growing anti-european sentiment in europe and i think we could make the treaty with japan the prototype of free trade agreements of a new type: free trade agreements which would respect public services, avoid financial deregulation, safeguard the precautionary principle and above all make social and environmental standards mandatory and binding.
last weekend, we had 75 000 people walking the streets of brussels to ask for more ambition with regard to climate change.
people do understand the necessity and the urgency of fighting climate change, and they do demand urgent action of europe and the member states.
but they cannot, they will not and they should not accept the fact that they are the only ones that will have to pay the bill for that: bad air quality, health risk, diminishing purchase power, job losses, unaffordable bills when it comes to energy, bad housing conditions.
these people are not climate sceptics, but maybe they will become climate sceptics if we do not make sure that we make a just transition.
broadening the european semester with social and ecological indicators which have the same weight as the economic, the fiscal and the debt indicators –that is also key.
investing in clean and sustainable industries and technologies and keeping these investments off the balance sheet, because otherwise we will not have enough room to make these investments.
we have to make this transition, but by making sure we do this in a just way, putting people and social values at the core of our sustainable agenda, we will be able to get everybody on board and turn this transition into a successful europe.
the two most important challenges – and that’s my final word – that we are all facing are climate change and rising inequalities.
let’s pull them together and make sure that we come into a concept of sustainable equality.
the ipcc is urging us to undertake a profound ecological transition without delay: we need our planet to be or remain habitable for all.
now, we know that half of the emissions are produced by the richest 10 percent.
this ecological and solidarity-based transition must also be fully democratic, because no one has, on his own, the blueprint for the ideal, just and solidarity-based society, nor the gps to achieve it.
president, colleagues, google, amazon, microsoft, facebook: this is the first time that the european union has been involved in a global climate change conference.
the annual report also shows that access to public transport and the built environment and discrimination in the labour market pose the greatest problems for people with disabilities.
in addition to this waste of energy and resources, i note that the american firm is actually sending us advertising material to commit us to using its services more and more in the next election campaign, but the same american company continues to evade its own commitments made during mr zuckerberg's visit to parliament.