mr president, let us ask ourselves, when we set goals for renewable energy and energy efficiency, whether we have the infrastructure to make this energy revolution happen.
this was noted in the third energy union report.
we also need to set more ambitious targets for interconnection, because without good interconnection we will not be able to pursue our serious energy efficiency and renewable energy targets.
madam president, i supported the report on accelerating clean energy innovation because i believe that renewable energy and good regulation of the internal energy market can ensure security of supply and energy efficiency in the european union after 2020. at the same time, however, i am deeply concerned by the high rate of energy poverty in the european union, which, according to some estimates, affects one in ten citizens.
the country most at risk of energy poverty in the european union is my bulgaria, where every third household falls into the 'energy poor' category.
the european union's clean energy plans must take this factor into account and help these people by investing in renewable sources and energy that easily and cheaply reaches the most vulnerable.
one step towards this is to ensure the connectivity of the western balkan countries, which is in the interest of both the citizens of the european union and the citizens of those countries, contrary to what my colleague said a moment ago: transport, energy, education and digital connectivity.
the european union is committed to encouraging and encouraging these countries to carry out the necessary reforms, to assist them in improving their transport, energy, communication and educational structures.
the drastic statistics on inequalities, surpassing any imaginable degree of sustainability, are by now more than well known.
as for the reasons, the aim of maximising short-term profits has led to a corporate model based on price competition and avoidance of obligations, be they social or environmental.
in addition, it has led to downward pressures on workers’ and producers’ pay and on labour and environmental standards, and to companies paying as little tax as possible; with ever greater political power in favour of policies preserving and safeguarding the present system.
let's be realistic -- we need more sources of gas, and we need a source for our industry, because i'm assuming that the people in this room don't feed on solar energy and don't eat only organic food.
we have an industry, and for that industry, we need a carrier of energy.
for this energy carrier, we need to separate the sources.
pollination is a basic function of bees and an environmental service that should be rewarded.
this environmental service must be fairly remunerated and direct subsidies for pollination by bees must be introduced in the new cap.
in order to achieve our goals for a strong and more ambitious europe in a rapidly changing political environment, we should increase the mff expenditure ceilings, foster flexibility mechanisms and special instruments and simplify the eu budgetary system.
the eu should continue to provide financial assistance to bulgaria for decommissioning of decommissioned nuclear capacity in order to ensure effective protection of the environment and public health.
therefore, i believe that the eu has to create and implement a new agenda which will develop stronger relations between eu and central asia states through strengthen dialogue and cooperation on important topics for both sides such as human rights, education, development, environment and security, particularly in the context of endless conflict in afghanistan and growing threat of terrorism and islamic fundamentalism in the region.
we underline the important role of cohesion policy in the recovery process as the main investment policy in europe, considering that its interaction with the european semester should be improved in order to increase the additional multiplier effect of cohesion investments and their contribution to sustainable and inclusive growth.
the global compact is a significant opportunity to improve governance on migration, to address the challenges associated with today’s migration, and to strengthen the contribution of migrants and migration to sustainable development.
the un has a leading role in defending and advancing the negotiations and eu member states must unite behind a single eu position in order to promote a common european vision on migration, a vision which will be people-centred and human-rights based, and should provide for long-term sustainable and comprehensive measures for the benefit of all parties involved, building on the principle of a partnership strengthening cooperation among transit and destination countries in the region.
the european investment bank is an indispensable partner in financing infrastructures and in supporting small- and medium-sized enterprises, innovation, employment, climate change, sustainable transport and policies related to external actions.
investment in transport infrastructure under the thematic objective 'promoting sustainable transport and eliminating bottlenecks in all key network infrastructures' is among the most tangible achievements of cohesion policy, as it contributes to eliminating disparities within the european union and to the competitiveness and economic strengthening of all member states.
we should also not forget the environment protection measures.
young farmers and new entrants represent important sources of innovation and entrepreneurship within agriculture, bringing benefits such as the introduction of new knowledge or techniques, the development of new business and organisational models, more sustainable farming systems (e.g.
because young people are capital, which eu agriculture needs in order to be sustainable and developed.
the cap should therefore encourage a new generation of young farmers who implement new business models based on end-users and develop smart solutions for sustainable and environmentally friendly farming practices.
while these funds help our partners to implement political and economic reforms, they also help the eu to reach its objectives regarding a sustainable economic recovery, energy supply, transport, environment and climate change.
finally, it is important to point out our continued support for environmental sustainability, notably in the fight against climate change, by promoting international measures.
what happens when these thousands of trucks are moving through europe, burning tons of oil, polluting the environment and closing roads?
i believe this is one of the textbook examples of how eu cohesion policy is changing the environment.
at the same time, i would like to stress the importance of structural reforms and expect greece to continue to take full advantage of the opportunities provided by the structural reform support programme with a view to creating and strengthening a suitable investment environment.
he showed our readiness to build synergies and to cooperate with the usa in areas such as trade and energy so we can together push for global solutions and fair conditions.
i believe that the strengthening of this partnership will create many opportunities, and will have a significant global impact when it comes to addressing global challenges, common security threats, climate change, global economic growth and the promotion of multilateralism.
it is very important to talk about innovation, about autonomous vehicles and about reducing carbon dioxide emissions, about ending illegal hiring practices and providing suitable working conditions.
perhaps the best example of a sector that embraces blockchain is the financial services, but in the “resolution on distributed ledger technologies and blockchains: building trust with disintermediation” we also look into how it can affect other areas and where it can have a greater impact - energy sector, health care sector, education and others.
according to some projections, by 2050, there will be more plastic waste than fish in the oceans if we don't take urgent action.
limiting plastic pollution is necessary to keep beaches and seas clean, while protecting the health of european citizens from the negative impact of marine litter that breaks down in the water and eventually ends up on our tables.
that is why i support measures to encourage the shift towards cleaner alternative products that are environmentally and health-friendly, and to increase the recycling and recovery of plastic waste.
however, the entire responsibility for pollution and prevention cannot be shifted to producers alone.
education, raising awareness of the negative effects and changing public attitudes towards waste, as well as improving infrastructure, play a role.
what we need to do is put in place clear rules so that platforms can take responsibility by controlling the communications environment they've created and monitor much better for harmful content and misuse of personal data.
mr president, this report is an important step to prevent the negative and harmful impact of plastics on the environment.
over eight billion tons in barely 65 years, resulting in more than six billion tons of waste.
this throwaway society is turning our oceans into one great garbage bin, with plastic responsible for 85% of our marine pollution.
the protection of our environment is our responsibility, and the eu should lead the world towards a cleaner and greener future.
in short, to all the critics who think that there is no need to do anything and no need to regulate the use of plastics, especially single-use plastics, i say, study the reports on the state of the environment, on the state of pollution of the world's oceans and seas.
i therefore supported this report, which of course will not solve the problem of plastic waste, but it is a clear first step, it shows the direction we should take in the future.
the european union is founded on values, one of which is environmental protection, and i believe that we have an obligation to embrace this for future generations.
the ways in which they're made, produced and used are not sustainable and efficient.
i voted for the ambitious proposal to reduce the use of single-use plastics because i believe we need to set ambitious targets so that young europeans and future generations have a cleaner environment and cleaner water.
environmental protection is a shared responsibility in society.
it is not sustainable to increase the cost of budget collection at the expense of citizens or to rely on actions and activities only of volunteers.
first of all, will this energy package work, given that there are non-binding targets in general at the european union level?
the second question i would like to ask is whether we should not finally put the transmission grids first, because when we set ambitious targets for renewable energy and energy efficiency, they will be impossible to achieve if we do not further develop the energy blood vessel, namely the transmission grids.
most important among them are sustainable economic growth; research and innovation; empowering young people; addressing the challenges of migration; strengthening the economic, social and territorial cohesion as well as security and defence; and also protecting the external borders and supporting the neighbouring countries.
i believe we need to learn to live in this new environment, where the european idea will be under attack and it will need to compete with other less liberal and less globalist ideas for the future of the european continent.
what is more important, we need to learn to defend the european idea, by providing real solutions to the public’s fears like migration, security and climate change while upholding the values our union is based on.
– madam president, this the 12th year that, as an independent state, montenegro has shown that all the fears related to its sustainability were unfounded.
secondly, the phased entry guarantees further economic losses and lost benefits, both for bulgaria, for its citizens, for the companies that export, and for the european companies and european countries that import goods to bulgaria and will have to waste a lot of time, and will make the final product more expensive.
the fact that it has been violated for so many years raises serious questions about the european union's capacity for self-regulation and its sustainability.
i supported the report by mrs grammatikakis because i believe that the union must have a coherent, sustainable and well-funded cultural policy.
the eu strongly supported an enabling environment for non—governmental organisations and human rights defenders through bilateral dialogues, including human rights dialogues, and financial support.
the data collected can be used to monitor biodiversity, land use, the state of crops and soils, and the overall development of rural areas.