recently, mr. trump, the leader of one of the largest countries in the world, saw snow in america and mocked those who believe there is an environmental issue and climate change.
man cannot understand the difference between climate change and whether it rained or snowed somewhere.
i'll close with energy poverty: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
i would like to make a few comments on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment.
mr president, i am obliged by this step, the strong step of the european parliament, which expresses the will and the will of all the peoples of europe, by the european parliament, which is the guardian and defender of human rights, institutions and values, to denounce a country which wants to become a member of the european union, a country which constantly violates every principle, every rule of human rights law, positions and principles of the european union, which violates human rights in its own country, which invades afrin, which has been a member state of the european union for 43 years and which these days is illegally, militarily and terribly invading the cyprus democratic republic, by providing the energy supplies for the intercontinental trade of 12 000 tonnes of natural gas and hydrocarbons in the cyprus archipelago, which is in our own economic interest, by prohibiting the export of gas and hydrocarbons to the cyprus archipelago, which is in our own economic interest.
energy reserves are the european union's reserves and it must defend them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the excessive use of nuclear energy, which is a major source of pollution.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not affected by the crisis.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, mr juncker, representatives of the council, at the forthcoming meeting the union's leaders will be taking decisions on the major problems plaguing europe: the economic crisis, refugees, brexit, the energy union and external relations.
the commission's proposals for the energy union, instead of solving the problems of energy supply, create new dead ends by abolishing the sovereign rights of the member states to formulate their energy policy.
the turkish state, which is oppressing the people within turkey, which is imprisoning dissidents, which is flouting the unanimous decision of the un security council to cease military operations and is continuing its invasion of afrin, which is cooperating with the most notorious terrorists, while calling any kurd a terrorist, which is interfering with the energy plans of cyprus with its fleet and harming the eu's energy interests, which is threatening greece and illegally continuing its occupation of the northern part of cyprus, is the turkish state that is receiving unprecedented favourable treatment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one.
the report suggests ways of assessing and increasing the effectiveness of the implementation of the financial instruments for development cooperation, humanitarian aid and the european development fund in relation to the european union's development and humanitarian aid policies, with the obvious aim of sustainable development and poverty eradication.
the overwhelming majority of meps agree with much of what was said in the speech, in particular for more europe with cohesion and solidarity that will defend european sovereignty in practice rather than in theory, for a europe that will protect the environment, promote quality of life and labour relations and of course implement the fundamental freedoms and rights of democracy and the rule of law of the eu in practice.
in fact, the us, uk and france have carried out missile attacks in the wake of the imperialist intervention taking place in recent years against syria with the aim of regime change, redrawing borders in the middle east and controlling energy sources and roads.
the results are known and we all know them, the occupation of cyprus continues, turkey is threatening to intervene and has already intervened in the eastern mediterranean and is blocking energy plans that serve the european union, it is threatening greece with war, it has intervened militarily by invading afrin and, especially inside turkey, the people are suffering and things are worse.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, if the connecting europe programme is properly used, it can really help to create the necessary energy and transport infrastructure that is vital for the people of europe.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year 2000. the aim should be to promote projects that are genuinely needed by society, that will contribute to strengthening regional cohesion, long-term development and the creation of new quality jobs, while at the same time complying with all environmental rules.
i would like to stress, also as a member of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, that sustainable finance is not just about economic issues, but about the quality of the welfare of the whole of the european union, and by extension, of humanity.
the environment, the green economy, climate change.
i live in the latest, climate change.
the fight against climate change, aid to agriculture and many other things are positive.
you talked about energy security.
in the eastern mediterranean, the european union is developing an energy strategy.
the european union's energy strategy in the eastern mediterranean is centred on the republic of cyprus and turkey has intervened with its fleet and is impeding the energy plans of cyprus and the european union.
mr president, the main cause of these major disasters, which claim hundreds of lives, is mainly climate change and, of course, the failure of states to protect their citizens.
the european union is doing a lot to defend the climate of the planet, but it seems that we have not yet managed, as a global community, to see the great problems that arise, whether from droughts or floods, as a result of climate change.
school should remain a fundamental learning environment for the development of young people's potential, providing equal opportunities and equality of opportunity for all children and young people.
funds are constantly being cut from programmes to support sustainable development and social cohesion, permanent internal troika mechanisms are being financed in the member states, the new special fund for defence is being financed to benefit the profitability of military monopolies.
madam president, commissioner, the main objective of strong cooperation between the eu and the acp countries is to eradicate poverty and promote sustainable economic, cultural and social development in the partner countries, with the progressive integration of their economies into the world economy.
supporting and promoting human rights and democratic principles, developing policies to build peace and enhance security in vulnerable areas, promoting democracy, addressing migration and climate change, combating terrorism and, finally, addressing food insecurity are fundamental issues to be addressed.
that is why i am asking you about the future: how will we promote european policies for a pan-european deposit guarantee, how will we promote european energy policies in the eastern mediterranean and how will the rule of law finally prevail in the occupied northern part of cyprus?
the deepening and institutionalization of the same neoliberal policies have led to people's unemployment and impoverishment, dismantled the welfare state, deregulated labor relations and intensified climate change.
madam president, we are discussing the strengthening of public social security systems, which must take account of their sustainability and must be based on and adapted to contributions and demographic changes, and unfortunately we are hearing arguments about how to de-structure them and how to rely, in effect, on private insurance.
i say this because yesterday the turkish president again issued threats against greece and cyprus, threats against their energy resources, threats against their sovereign rights.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs miriam dalli, on the report before us, which sets ambitious targets for reducing co2 emissions from new vehicles.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environmentally harmful effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one.
the proposal to use technology and measure car emissions in real road conditions to avoid future car industry scandals such as the 'dieselgate' scandal is also particularly positive.
the rise of the far right is attempting to turn the union back to obscurantism and is threatening the fundamental freedoms, rights and achievements of the people, and i regret to say that it is an oxymoron today with the climate of the rise of fascism and the far right to talk about the soviet union.
yes, we need to upgrade the digital economy, but we also need to create decent, sustainable, quality jobs.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the energy issue we are discussing today, madam president, is of particular importance because it concerns all the member states, but also all the european citizens, the economy and society.
my own country, cyprus, is paying a heavy price because of climate change.
to respond by taking action for those suffering the consequences of climate change.
to set up desalination plants or, at the same time, large photovoltaic parks in order to reduce the cost of electricity, that is, the cost of energy, which is particularly important for the survival of these countries and in particular for the primary production sector.
however, it is also important for the secondary sector, since photovoltaics will be able to reduce energy there too.
the european union can therefore invest in an autonomous energy system for every home, every business and every agricultural production, which will also contribute to renewable energy sources.
we also support the energy union.
we support it and we support it because we believe that cyprus and its energy reserves will be within the energy union and the european union must be able to support, support and safeguard cyprus' energy reserves.
these reserves are important because, as a member state of the european union, they form part of the european energy reserves.
it constitutes an essential condition for the enjoyment of human rights and for the achievement of all the united nations sustainable development goals.
the european consensus on development highlights the importance of education for promoting responsible citizenship, developing sustainable societies and boosting youth employment.
as recently announced in our new africa—europe alliance for sustainable investment and jobs, by 2020 the european union will have supported 35 000 african students and academics through the erasmus programme.
the european union is also a major contributor to the global partnership for education, which brings together all relevant actors to achieve the objective of the united nations sustainable development goal to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.
the minority lives in a climate of terror and silent ethnic cleansing.
at the same time, the republic of cyprus, in cooperation with the countries of the wider eastern mediterranean and with countries which are members of the european union, is endeavouring to develop an energy policy to serve the european union.
how can we accept arms exports to turkey, a terrorist country, and at the same time support the energy planning of the republic of cyprus?
however, it is important that the government delivers tangible and sustainable results, including against the cultivation and trafficking of drugs.
however, and more generally, i would like to stress the importance of tangible and sustainable results focusing in particular on the rule of law: this will take albania closer to the opening of accession talks.
we must at the same time defend through this agreement the individual rights of the japanese, who will continue to work under the same conditions as today, the environmental rights.
children are dying of hunger, the homeless are freezing to death, one in four citizens is suffering from energy poverty and, instead of giving financial support to people in need, the european parliament, the only elected european institution, is proposing to give a lump sum to the european defence fund, a fund which violates eu law and the eu treaty, which states that expenditure relating to operations with military or defence implications should not be charged to the union budget.
we welcome the proposal as it stands, as it improves on the commission proposal and reinforces the reference to the need to support programmes that respond to the needs of society, to give impetus to research on tackling global social challenges, combating climate change and implementing development objectives.
the european union needs a bold policy to tackle climate change outside the logic of the market and more ambitious than the paris agreement.