the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
it is a clean and cheap source of energy that can be used very quickly across the eu by technologies that are already available and widespread.
this is why reducing consumption and making our economy more energy efficient should be one of the eu's main strategic priorities.
savings are also an integral part of the strategy to ensure europe's long-term energy security.
it's been proven that every one percent improvement in energy efficiency will bring about a much greater decrease in our dependence on imports.
energy efficiency is also the future of our economic competitiveness and our economic development.
if the 40% energy efficiency target is approved, we will open the way to gdp growth and employment.
the result will not be, as some have claimed, that ambitious energy saving commitments will reduce the competitiveness of european industry and have an overall negative impact on it.
she was aware of all the opportunities and benefits that energy efficiency offers.
so i have to ask: what happened to the 'energy efficiency first' principle?
and on the contrary, it will create new opportunities for construction, for the development of energy services, because the potential for energy savings is far from being fully exploited.
by accelerating the renovation of european buildings, we will not only achieve long-term reductions in energy consumption, but also contribute to addressing the most pressing issues related to energy poverty.
today, millions of europeans have great difficulty in paying for heat, energy or gas.
in doing so, each additional percentage of energy efficiency improvements will help these households to pay their energy bills.
in conclusion, i would like to emphasise that by signing the paris climate agreement, we committed ourselves to taking measures that will lead to a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, so that there is no increase in average temperature by two degrees celsius.
energy savings are expected to make a significant contribution to this.
i believe we will be ambitious enough to achieve the same results in the case of energy efficiency.
i know from experience that every objective must have economically justifiable costs, and i am completely lacking in these for the 40% energy efficiency target that was voted for.
such a dramatic intervention in the energy and heating markets will require billions of investments not only from citizens and businesses but also from the state budget.
energy is one of the key sectors affecting the competitiveness of the eu as a whole.
if we override the setting of mandatory parameters for efficiency, renewable resources and the like, we can do very serious damage to the economies of the member states in the future.
i would like to ask the honourable member, since you speak so beautifully about the energy poverty of the socialists and the number of people in the eu who suffer from energy poverty, why did the socialist group not support the legal definition in the text, but only the very vague definition in the recital?
the current governance concept has given up on addressing the issues of overlapping policies and documents, such as the interaction of energy efficiency with the ets, which is exactly the problem it was intended to address.
the document included only a vague definition of energy poverty, which is afflicting more and more people in the eu.
we recognise that reducing consumption is essential to ensure the long-term competitiveness of our economy and is the key to reducing co2 emissions.
it's also the most effective solution to energy poverty.
for these reasons, we should adopt very ambitious measures to promote energy efficiency.
the energy committee did so last december.
i would also like to thank professor gierek and all the other rapporteurs for the very useful and very high-quality work they have done in preparing the report of the committee on energy and i would like to invite all colleagues to support this opinion of the committee on energy, research and innovation, because this directive is very important for the integration of the energy union as a whole.
this directive follows up on directive 2009/208/ec and the october 2014 european council decision, which envisaged a minimum of 27% renewable energy in the eu in 2030. the ep has asked the commission to raise this target to 30%, with renewables accounting for only 24.3% of consumption in 2030 if current trends continue.
the directive provides for the promotion of renewable sources by appropriate state aid schemes and other measures, including cross-border expansion.
the increase in renewable energy sources in cooling and heating is also foreseen.
in this context, the energy union governance proposal is an important coordination element.
this includes planning where member states formulate national energy and climate plans, reporting and monitoring, with member states reporting on the progress of their national plans.
the commission will assess the impact of the aid on the union's energy supply and demand in the light of the conclusions of the european council in copenhagen on 26 and 27 june 2016. regardless of the reality of the estimates or targets, it is clear that without a carbon tax, these ambitious targets are not very realistic.
i strongly welcome the ambitious revised proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources.
i firmly believe that the european union will learn from its past mistakes and will not allow its policies in this area to continue to contribute to the deforestation of rainforests worldwide, the taking of land, the destruction of biodiversity and the devastation of local communities.
the commission considers that the proposed measures would be in line with the principles of the union's sustainable forest management strategy, which is based on the principle of sustainable forest management.
i am reminded of article 14 of the un agenda, which calls for the protection and sustainable use of the seas and oceans, but industrial fishing itself is a disaster for biodiversity and the very standard of living in the oceans.
i wanted to say something about the problem of emissions from shipping, which are set to rise by up to 250%, but i have no time.
the report finds that climate change, in particular weather fluctuations, droughts and floods, negatively affect more the lives of those who are in some way threatened by poverty, illiteracy or whose dignity is not taken seriously enough in society.
this report highlights important facts that we should consider when we seek solutions, such as the fact that women are the ones who suffer the most from all the climate fluctuations, because they are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are running the household and looking after the household.
on average, women worldwide carry out more than 70% of all water-related activities in areas affected by climate change.
70% of all women in the agricultural sector work there, but women are largely excluded from decision-making on economic or environmental policy.
i have, in this sense, promoted biodiversity, let's say, the good development of our oceans, seas and coastal areas so that life can be preserved in them.
mr faria's report describes very well what this loss of biodiversity means.
we have the problem of emissions from shipping, which can go up by 50 percent, but even as much as 250 percent, these are all challenges that we face and we really need to address them.
again, there are definitely limits to which we can use trade policy for some achievements in the field of human rights or environmental protection.
i would like to explain why i voted in favour of the renewable energy directive.
i am in favour of increasing the share of renewable energy to 35%, as a binding target for the eu as a whole, but with flexibility for the national states.
renewable energy is a good way to combat climate change and air pollution.
so let me tell you what the vote on the draft energy efficiency directive has finally come to.
i voted in favour of the proposal because i consider energy saving to be a suitable tool for improving the environment.
it is a draft regulation on the governance of the energy union, and we voted on it last, because it actually closed the voting on the three pieces of legislation relating to the energy package.
in general, of course, i support a flexible approach for individual countries, and i therefore expected that this would be taken more into account when voting on amendments, for example, i did not support strict deadlines for national energy and climate strategies.
i voted against the binding nature of national energy efficiency targets.
i welcome the efforts to transform the initiative into a more sustainable financial instrument to tackle unemployment in the post-2020 period.
on the one hand, i very much welcome the european commission's plans to work to ensure that all plastic packaging placed on the eu internal market is either reusable or easily recyclable by 2030, and that more than half of all plastic waste is recyclable by the same year.
we're facing a global plastic packaging crisis right now, and we don't have time to wait until 2030 and solve it by moving our plastic waste from china, where they don't want it, to africa.
mr president, discrimination against consumers on the basis of their nationality or country of residence is unfortunately a daily reality in the european union's internal market, and not just in the online environment.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, commissioner, allow me to join the ranks of those who want to thank julia girling, who, as i said, took this document de facto in half and brought it to a successful conclusion, in my view, because after years of hard work we are presenting the reform of the emissions trading system to you today.
despite the very difficult negotiations, i believe that the text presented balances satisfactorily the issue of climate protection and the implementation of the paris agreement with the protection of european industry and the jobs it guarantees.
for example, the unresolved issue of protecting european industry from imports of raw materials and products from countries that do not share our position on the fight against climate change, such as the so-called carbon adjustment mechanism.
before this work was completed, the so-called winter energy package mercilessly entered the process, which, however, significantly disrupts some of the institutes and tools from the previous package, which was only completed.
it was certainly very difficult to negotiate a compromise, but the result is a directive that aims to deliver on the commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 43% by 2030. it's a compromise that is acceptable.
it contains measures to prevent so-called carbon leakage and the shifting of investments to other countries.
i believe, madam president, that the report on the acceleration of clean energy innovation, which has been well received by mr buzek, is a good response by the european parliament to the commission's communication, because it has enriched the commission's communication with some important aspects.
i consider the greatest contribution of this report to be the emphasis on a comprehensive strategy for the export of sustainable and clean energy technologies.
i also strongly agree with the emphasis in this report on clean energy innovation from the bottom up, from citizens and municipalities.
in europe and the czech republic, there are many successful examples of households and entire communities that are energy self-sufficient and do not pollute the environment.
energy savings have not occurred and there is even no evidence of increased sports activity due to daylight saving time.
so i think we need to look at the fact that energy savings have not been demonstrated, but that the time change has an impact on the health of citizens.
for several reasons, bees and plant pollination in particular, are crucial for sustainable agricultural production.
the european union is striving to lead by example in this regard, especially when it comes to meeting international climate commitments and the internal objectives of the european union.
secondly, i want to mention the energy union.
traditional programmes can be sustainable without change.
i do not know whether cohesion policy will still be necessary in 2050, but i do know that it will remain necessary over the next decade for bringing less developed regions closer to the average and for increasing the competitiveness of all regions, as well as for social measures and for smart environmental and infrastructure measures.
in our proposal we will simplify agricultural policy, we will improve greening, we will reconcile the agricultural sector and the environment even more closely, we will give the farmer money so that he can produce good food in sufficient quantity and of high quality, in compliance with our environmental and animal welfare regulations and with the regulations on soil, water and climate protection.
there is always a debate that we disagree on some point, whether it is an environmental tax or whether it is a tax on some services, transactions and so on, but we all agree that the european union should be less dependent on the income of individual member states.
a union of sustainable economic growth, quality jobs and economic, social and territorial cohesion.
representatives of member states may no longer block eu contributions to measures to combat climate change.
our businesses on the continent need a clear and predictable business environment.
i did not agree, and therefore did not vote, to the introduction of certain proposals for an environmental tax or a corporate tax share.
but we need to deepen coordination and exchange of information within the european ecosystem.
media, especially print media, are facing economic challenges today in the context of online news, social networks and other changes in the overall environment.
i therefore call on the member states to join us in this renewed initiative to create a fairer tax environment for the benefit of fairer competition and, above all, the citizens.
corporate social responsibility is defined as the financing of public good projects, corporate, environmental or social policies, and the way in which their activities affect the atmosphere in society.
if companies continue to degrade the environment and exploit cheap labor, it's going to be hard to talk about human rights and climate change here.
this is not a sustainable state of affairs, this is at the heart of future crises, this shows the injustice of the current system.
it emphasises that businesses should voluntarily take account of human rights, environmental protection and other social criteria in their activities.
ninety years ago, the firm of tomáš a jan batýov knew that it had to take care of its employees if it was to be sustainable in the long run.
i think we have to give it time to really turn into a sustainable project, independent of the funding that is allocated from the creative europe programme.
the commission notes that the measure is not intended to promote the use of renewable energy sources, but to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the transport sector.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, commissioner, the adoption of these two regulations on emissions, which are not currently covered by the eu ets, will finally complete the legislative process for the climate package.
even those that have long avoided doing their part to solve the problem, such as forestry, transportation, buildings, agriculture, or waste management.
however, since the effort sharing regulation is not the only framework for reducing emissions and since other regulations implementing the objectives set out in it, such as the proposal on co2 for cars, are due to enter into force, i would urge that both proposals be adopted without any problems, although i have a number of reservations about them.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
very briefly on the topic: i think nobody in this house would doubt that sustainability is absolutely crucial, both in environmental as well as industrial terms.
with instruments like eco—design, or legislation on package labelling or energy efficiency and so on we are creating a regulatory environment that can work.
that is why maybe i would focus also the attention of the member states on something that, as the shadow in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) on all the proposals, among other things i came up with an annex which basically consists of the incentives that can be provided.
the mindset, the incentives and the regulatory environment can work, so i very much hope that we will have a very positive and strong vote on that this week.
the rapporteur of the committee on industry, research and energy.
mr president, madam rapporteur, europe currently produces more than 2.5 billion tonnes of waste a year, and only a third of it is reused or recycled.
i think we clearly need new, modernized waste legislation to accelerate the transition to a fully circular economic model.
and although the legislative proposals we have here are the result of long negotiations and compromises, i think they will make a significant contribution to a completely fundamental change in waste management.
in particular, they set clear targets for reducing waste, preventing it from being generated or strengthening the waste hierarchy.
i therefore very much welcome, for example, the increase of the reuse and recycling target to 70% of the total waste volume.
or the construction waste measures.
for example, i still think that reducing food waste by 50% by 2030 is not enough.
or the rate of reducing the amount of waste and litter in the seas could also still be higher.
however, as with the previous climate package, i have mixed emotions as a result.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for identifying the areas of environmental protection which are most lacking in terms of meeting the objectives set by the member states of the european union and by the union as a whole.
i personally think it's very important to note that the greatest environmental threats to health are most evident in those urban areas themselves, but also in those suburban areas, in those adjacent areas, the so-called suburbanization areas.
it should be stressed that emissions of air pollutants, together with unbalanced spatial planning and infrastructure, have immense economic and environmental impacts, as well as impacts on human health.
this is particularly evident in priority objective 3, where we focus on protecting union citizens from environmental pressures and risks affecting their health.
the report concludes that it is not entirely clear whether the eu will be able to meet its targets for measuring and reducing exposure to chemicals that harm human health and the environment.
we are also still not doing well in ensuring the sustainable use of pesticides and the ep is therefore focusing on this issue in two further own-initiative implementation reports.
this is a competitive environment characterised by stress and rigid deadlines.
i personally support the idea of securing these raw materials ourselves and of adhering to the principles of sustainable development, and if we cannot do it ourselves, then we should turn to partner countries such as ukraine.
this is indeed a good thing, both for the eu and, of course, for the individual countries, but the aim should be to ensure sustainable development.
in any case, it is very important to me that the rapporteur has identified precisely the areas where europe and its member states are not meeting the environmental objectives they have set themselves.
there, people face very significant health and environmental disruptions linked to unbalanced land use planning and infrastructure, with immense economic, social and environmental impacts.
i would very much like to see us set realistic targets for waste management.
i think it's important that we really build a circular economy and not direct our waste streams in one direction, for example, to landfills or incineration.
in general, i believe that this outcome meets adequately our expectations and provides a robust and reliable framework which fits with our ambitions in the area of protection of the environment and protection of consumers’ rights.
it's actually a collaboration of 48 different countries at the intergovernmental level, and it's also important to know that it's being done in an academically independent environment under changing political conditions.
i consider the issue of sustainable transport to be extremely important, indeed important for the development of our towns and cities, and it is a key issue for cohesion policy.
it is not just about reducing exhaust emissions and emissions from public transport, but also about meeting the real preferences of public transport, including, for example, the reduction of travel distances, the so-called modal hubs, telematics.
on emissions, i will leave the figures aside, but i do appreciate what commissioner cañete has said on the question of incentives.
another issue in this respect is that we could overemphasise just one source of energy, and that is electricity – not in the proposal, but in general.
first, meaningful electromobility is conditional on the use of electricity from renewable sources.
electric mobility using electricity produced from fossil fuels only solves a local problem, at the cost of large efficiency losses caused by energy conversion and transmission.
secondly, if we want to talk about zero emissions, we need to consider the entire production chain, the entire carbon footprint, including manufacturing, not just the operation of the vehicle itself.
third, the widespread use of renewable energy is not possible without efficient, technically advanced storage.
in this context, i would like to express our gratitude for your continued support for the efforts of developing countries, in particular in strengthening the rule of law, good governance, and in the fight against irregular migration and climate change.
this climate of dialogue has contributed greatly to the calming of the socio-political environment and to the building of peace and stability.
to do this, we need to invest substantially in infrastructure, particularly in the transport, telecommunications and energy sectors, in order to accelerate the transformation of our economies.
that is why we launched the african renewable energy initiative at cop21 in 2015, with the aim of providing our continent with 300 gigawatts of energy generation capacity by 2030 and significantly increasing the use of renewable energy.
the third african union-european union summit, held in abidjan in november 2017, under my co-chairmanship, on the theme 'investing in youth for accelerated inclusive growth and sustainable development', reflected the willingness of the leaders of our continents to move further towards harmonising relations in favour of youth.
the new eu external investment plan, set up and adopted by the european parliament in 2017 and with €44 billion of available resources by 2020, will therefore support our efforts to achieve sustainable development and create new opportunities for young people.
your excellency, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, cooperation between the european union and the republic of guinea has been accelerated and diversified in recent years in various fields, which has contributed to improving governance, developing infrastructure and human capital, preserving the environment and improving the management of the fisheries sector.
this programme, which is the single framework for action by our partners, is based on four pillars: the promotion of good governance for sustainable development, sustainable and inclusive economic transformation, inclusive development of human capital, and sustainable management of natural capital.
we are once again counting on the support of the european union to enable us to achieve the objectives contained in our sdsp, which aims to put guinea definitively on the path of sustainable development.
it has become even more value—based, emphasising the values of the european union when it comes to labour rights, the environment and human rights, but also to the value of open rule—based trade.
we are doing this through our trade agreements, which are mutually beneficial, sustainable and fully in line with multilateral global rules.
the same goes for evaluation and for enforcement, especially on the sustainable development chapters where we have this 15—point action programme where we will focus on much stronger enforcement and cooperation with the different stakeholders.
we definitely see that in terms of the reduction in energy consumption and, of course, it also has a positive impact on fuel imports and in reducing emissions.
so far, ecodesign primarily focuses on energy consumption, but that should not be the only criterion.
the sole scope of the ecodesign directive covers energy and energy-related products, but what about other product groups, for example ict products, which contain a number of precious elements, or furniture, which definitely creates a large part of our landfill?
composition of products has the same relevance as energy consumption, in my opinion, and therefore ecodesign should be considered as a part of the circular economy, and that has been underlined.
ecodesign has brought real added value in terms of saving energy and resources.
all environmental impacts of products should always be considered in terms of their composition, durability, disassembly, repairability and recyclability, already at the design stage.
the new wording should cover a much wider product portfolio, be properly linked to waste and chemicals legislation and competent authorities should have more powers to enforce compliance by processors and producers.
he's backing substantial funding for specific projects in transport, in energy, in the digital world.
only stable and prosperous families guarantee a good environment for raising children, sustainable development and a functioning and cohesive society.
the report also includes a term like sustainability, and i think that's really key to our future in any industry, but of course also in aquaculture.
these third parties, including universities, regional governments and non-governmental organisations, will thus be able to independently verify the accuracy of the data provided by the manufacturers and thus prevent new scandals, such as the one related to diesel emissions.
it is also important to agree on the need to combat climate change.
draftsman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
there are many good projects in the area of cohesion policy, waste prevention, recycling, recycling, efficiency improvement, reduction of consumption, for example in energy use.
the role of municipalities and cities in the use of new technologies, biological waste in agriculture is also important.
madam president, cohesion policy is the key to making the circular economy a reality, even in countries that have a slippery waste infrastructure.
if we are to achieve the ban on municipal waste disposal, as we have recently agreed here, we need to give poorer countries the means to do so.
in countries like the czech republic, slovakia and poland, we are long behind in building infrastructure for sorting and recycling, and energy recovery is still in its infancy.
i am therefore very pleased that the european commission has decided to support the circular economy financially not only in this programming period, which is now ending, but also in the new programming period, thus enabling them to make a smoother transition to a low-carbon and circular economy.
this report has also met my expectations because it deals with specific projects that are important for waste prevention, recycling, energy efficiency, reducing consumption, and actually putting raw materials back into circulation so that they are not used just once.
i am very pleased that a specific report is responding to these issues, calling on cities, municipalities and farmers to cooperate in the case of bio-waste.
any decision will need to provide sustainable solutions that will help the union to cope with situations similar to the one we faced a couple days ago.
in my work on the palm oil report, i have seen firsthand how the eu too often ignores how we contribute to the destruction of nature and biodiversity.
culture, it's the monuments, it's the theater, it's the movies, but it's also how we treat each other, what kind of environment we create around us.
all of this is, of course, ecological.
this is of course useful in the context of environmental protection, but it has its risks, and the rapporteur has mentioned some of them.
the negotiations on the union's multiannual financial framework will again take a lot of energy from the austrian presidency, as they will certainly be very intense and will show the many different interests in the european union.
documents that i'm working on, like the co2 emissions of cars or the hta project in healthcare, are things that we're waiting to see.
in any case, i wish you a lot of strength and energy to achieve this goal, to make europe truly protective.
and this is a truly staggering challenge for the quality of life, the accessibility of infrastructure, the availability of adequate public services in these cities, the mastery of spatial planning and the overall sustainable development of cities and towns.
i think we all recognize that 3d printing is a great opportunity, it drives innovation, it makes manufacturing more efficient, so it's good for business and good for consumers, and it's also very good for the environment.
mr president, i think it is very important that we address the situation of climate change and migration, and that is why i think this discussion made sense.
i supported the part of the resolution that calls for action at the un level to provide a response to the migration of people who are expecting, who are leaving areas that are severely affected by climate change, and there is a need to respond in the places, in the regions where these changes are occurring, or to help and to address the situation there.
i cannot agree with the challenge to change and redefine the term climate refugee in order to provide an international legal framework and protection.
i don't think it's the solution to give the same international protection to refugees who leave climate change-affected areas as those who flee war and persecution.
i think that the etias system is a very good and sustainable tool and i think, commissioner, that the sooner this system and this regulation are implemented, the better.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his excellent report, and also for the work he has done in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the report emphasises the need for individual approach and support of employees, but also for example adaptation of the working environment, removal of barriers.
there's no reason to be angry with people for their injuries or long-term illnesses, whether it's because of physical or psychological barriers in their environment.
but the successes of the past belong in the past; what counts is the future and the way that we will tackle the challenges and the problems of today will decide the future of our union, of our continent, and the list of these problems is demanding – migration, security, economic problems, foreign policy, tax issues and environment are among those on the list – but we shouldn’t forget, and this is what mr juncker has said, that unity, cooperation and solidarity is what we are decided on to succeed and we shouldn’t forget it.
i was very disappointed that mr juncker, who has been advocating the need to combat climate change every year, was unable to deliver on his commitment to provide sufficient funding for this area throughout his term of office.
the benefits for the sustainability of pension systems are also clear.
madam president, i would like to turn our attention to the second part of the joint debate, namely the question of how to deal with the serious problems at the frontier of legislation on chemicals, products and waste.
insufficient information on substances of concern present in products and waste.
more specifically, how does the council intend to contribute to further harmonising the interpretation and application of the provisions on waste by the member states?
logically, the first priority is to prevent plastic waste, the second priority is to reuse, and the third is to recycle.
today, only 30% of plastic waste is collected for recycling in the eu.
it's important to talk about emissions that are the result of transportation, air pollution in cities, which is the source of more than 25 percent of greenhouse gas emissions.
we should promote sustainable urban and rural mobility plans.
it is also important to raise citizens' awareness of the environmental impacts of different modes of transport.
the development of low-carbon transport services should be our priority.
for many pesticides, we do not know the long-term impacts on biodiversity, and we have a complete lack of assessment of the impact on soil, soil macro-organisms and soil micro-organisms.
i also used its results to work on the draft regulation on the transparency and sustainability of risk assessment in the food chain.
i consider the problem of plastic waste to be a global issue and the eu is one of the global actors and we should therefore lead by example in the fight for a clean environment.
a study on the amount of plastic waste produced in the eu each year has produced alarming data.
and we're also adding to the economic losses with plastic waste.
in addition to actions at commission and member state level, i believe it is important to stimulate civil debate and to encourage industrial companies to implement measures to reduce the amount of non-recyclable plastic waste.
madam president, i supported this report, because this strategy for plastics follows on from the waste package approved this year.
it should serve to stimulate investment and the setting up of new sustainable business models in the plastics industry.
as the report states, less than 30% of plastic waste is currently recycled in the eu, which is a huge environmental burden indeed.
but europe must also invest in research, technology, otherwise the targets of substantial waste reduction will be hard to meet.
this is the potential, particularly in agriculture, agribusiness, the environment, tourism.
colleagues, you are also calling for solutions to other important issues, such as social and environmental issues, these are important issues, but without restoring citizens' confidence in this crucial issue of security and migration, we will not move forward.
if the european union wants to skip all this, it means that we are going the wrong way in a politically driven market, against free competition in an open competitive environment.
mr president, commissioner, it is clear that the european union has a vital role to play in reducing overall emissions and combating climate change.
i am also confident that the council and the leadership of the austrian presidency will be able to reach an agreement on a general approach at the environment council next week and that a final positive political agreement among the co—legislators can be found before the end of the year.
reducing co2 emissions is important in the fight against climate change and the european union is a leader in this.
the commission has proposed to amend the emission standard to reduce co2 emissions by 30% by 2030. i think it was a wise decision.
mr president, i could not support this proposal, i considered the original proposal from the european commission to reduce emissions from new cars and vans by 30% by 2030 compared to 2021 to be realistic, and i considered the more restrictive proposal of 35% to be reasonable and acceptable.
the setting of these limits must, in my view, reflect both the need for the changes that the climate is causing and that are set out in the paris convention, and the possibilities of the automotive sector, which provides thousands of jobs not only in the czech republic but also throughout the eu.
but it's a very important area in terms of food security, in terms of its agricultural production, in terms of environmental quality, in terms of oxygen production, in terms of water retention.
broilers are typically raised in a single space by the tens of thousands, with no access to daylight, no enrichment of the environment, no possibility of meeting the normal needs of the animals.
the fact that factory chickens are a major source of ammonia pollution, among other things, seems like a piece of cake when compared with the problem of antibiotic resistance.
i believe that we should carefully assess the impact of large-scale production and promote more sustainable farming practices and in this context we would like the commission to answer the following questions: will the commission take action to improve the enforcement of the broiler directive, in particular with regard to the systematic and consistent use of animal-oriented indicators?
given that such systems can help reduce ammonia emissions and reduce the need for uncritical use of antimicrobials and improve animal welfare?
i also welcome the increase in climate change funding.
if we tolerate failure to meet our own commitments, we will undermine our image in the eyes of the public and waste the time we have left to take the necessary adaptation and mitigation measures.
the other is sustainability, the ability to deliver this accessible water to the citizens, but sustainability of the system as well.
the environmental impact of plastic products is, in my view, still not sufficiently addressed.
europe produces 150,000 tonnes of plastic waste every year, which ends up in the sea.
if we really want to prevent negative environmental impacts, we need to set a stricter legislative framework.
uniformity also excludes sustainability.
only environmentally friendly products will allow us to avoid the current plastic waste situation from worsening.
plastics are responsible for 85% of the waste in the oceans.
but the statistics about the impact of a single waste unit are also frightening.
while we may want producers to invest in alternatives and share the costs of waste collection, these obligations must be proportionate.
challenges such as ensuring that europe’s return to economic growth benefits all, and creating opportunity in the transition to the digital and low carbon economy.
challenges such as demographics and migration, climate change and the competition for resources, which require a shared push towards sustainability.
the commission will help prepare this discussion with contributions on delivering a sustainable european future to implement the sustainable development goals and surpass our paris commitments.
we will advocate moving to more efficient decision-making in energy and climate, tax and social policies.
i also appreciate that the report does not ignore the problems of fisheries, which account for 27% of all waste.
i think the ban on single-use plastic products is a good move, because the low price and almost unlimited availability of these residues has over time made them more of a problematic waste than a useful aid, and we cannot effectively dispose of them today.
but the sad thing is that this revolution has kind of gotten out of hand, and it's really alarming how much plastic, combined with a lack of recycling ethics, is polluting our oceans, our environment.
plastic pollution undoubtedly requires a global solution given its transboundary nature.
i would add that mistakes can be traced back to fraud, waste and inefficiency.
projects must also be better presented, they must have more added value, they must have visibility and, ladies and gentlemen, they must be sustainable.
it should be borne in mind that when cultural assets are removed from the environment, local people lose their customs and monuments or places of worship and memorial.
it is a pressure from a narrow group of lobbyists, whose purpose is not to make life easier for the environment, but to fill the pockets of the producers.
mr grzyb, i must say that at the end of your words i already started dreaming about clean vehicles and energy efficiency on railways and in aviation.
in short, we are moving towards making the energy that the european union puts into erasmus+ and others a meaningful use.
it is a fact that many chemicals have been placed on the eu market, sometimes in very high quantities, without sufficient information on the risks they pose to human health and the environment.
eu industry now produces chemicals that are safer for citizens and the environment.
the challenge was to achieve a wording of the legislative proposals that would be acceptable to the european parliament, the european council and the european commission, while at the same time allowing the european energy and climate change objectives to be met.
i am convinced that europe not only has its long-term share of responsibility for the global environment, but also, unlike many others, has the means and potential to be the main driver of these changes.
i believe it is no coincidence that today's discussion of the clean energy package, and indeed today's plenary session as a whole, starts with the energy efficiency directive, because this is how we put the 'energy efficiency first' principle into practice, and i believe that most member states will follow this trend in their energy policy making.
on the other hand, we didn't all share the same vision at the beginning about how ambitious we should be in energy efficiency.
often, and it was by interpreting the results of impact studies differently, or using other sources of mathematical cost models for energy efficiency measures, we differed greatly.
but the european parliament has always been among the leaders in promoting an ambitious european climate policy.
we entered into negotiations with the council in the spring with a requirement for a binding 30% energy efficiency target by the end of 2030, whereas the council supported the commission's proposal at 30% in a non-binding format.
i have always been convinced, and i remain convinced, supported by the results of impact studies and a number of analyses, that despite the initial costs, these energy efficiency measures will have a very positive impact on economic growth, employment and on reducing the european union's dependence on fossil fuel imports.
there was also a lot of discussion about the so-called article seven, where we finally reached a very good level of 0.8% of final energy consumption.
i would also like to conclude by mentioning the issue of energy poverty.
as you know, our political group has been a long-standing supporter of the idea of fighting energy poverty on this soil.
this has recently made it possible to observe that the problems of people who cannot pay their heating or energy bills are increasingly resonating among politicians at all levels.
the draft directive will be reviewed in 2023 in the light of the implementation of the climate agreements and also in the light of the progress in innovation and technology.
in the climate agreement, we committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030, and increasing energy efficiency is the most cost-effective way to do that.
i believe that by negotiating energy efficiency legislation we have indeed created a huge opportunity not only for our environment, but also for european industry, services and citizens, including the poorest groups, and for our competitiveness in a world market that is increasingly under threat.
i would particularly emphasize energy efficiency.
i am also pleased that we have managed to reduce the obligations arising from the so-called 'governance' and to keep the energy package as close as possible to the original package: that is what 'governance' is all about.
it's not that much of a shift in the climate.
the same goes for the energy mix.
only the member state must retain the right to choose the energy mix and at the same time the ability to benefit from it.
a member state should not be obliged, but only able, to shoulder the costs of energy mix choices in neighbouring member states in solidarity.
madam president, the clean energy package is really one of the most important and significant pieces of legislation of our mandate and i’m very glad that i have been able to participate in the deliberations.
it is absolutely necessary to modernise and shape the energy market, that is for sure, especially if we want to succeed in global competition, but at the same time, we need to focus on the other side of the coin: reducing consumption.
for me, the question is energy efficiency, an energy efficiency policy first, definitely.
i would appreciate it if we could focus on that and i invite the member states to implement, as soon as possible, as thoroughly as possible, the clean energy package, with an emphasis not just on the opportunities in terms of technology, renewables, etc.
we will also have the opportunity in the near future to show what we mean by pesticides on our european continent, because the report is already being discussed in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
energy efficiency is indeed a key requirement for our common future.
we cannot waste resources, i mean we must be conservative in our daily lives, conservative with resources, of course with people, with the landscape and certainly with natural resources in the energy sector.
the fight against climate change simply cannot be done without this self-restraint.
raising the indicative non-binding eu efficiency target to 32.5% and raising the real energy saving rate to 0.8%, is realistic, not dramatically ambitious and in addition there is some national flexibility allowed, see the possibility for the state to exclude the transport sector from these targets.
in my view, the european union has one of its biggest debts in the field of the energy union, and this is the seventh report or opinion we have discussed in this respect.
i must stress that for the czech republic, for example, access to energy resources and good governance of the energy union as such are absolutely crucial for our future.
we don't have much of our own energy resources.
after all, today was quite a blast about energy savings, about lower emissions, about the responsibility of the union, but also of the member states, to help the vulnerable, including states, not just businesses, households and individual citizens.
perhaps we should move faster, but i firmly believe that we will see the end of our mandate, or the next one, with a full energy union as a means of protecting vulnerable states.
the common fight against cartels and other forms of free market cheating is one of the european union's successes, where it has been possible to harmonise the european union institutions with local organisations, thus creating a fair environment for all.
there are also environmental impacts, it's estimated that mining these virtual currencies alone consumes as much energy as denmark consumes all year round.
as rapporteur, i initially tried to gather information from various sources on whether this dual structure was functional, and my colleagues and i also undertook a mission of the committee on industry, research and energy to riga.
finally, the new tasks for berec set out in the code, namely the newly introduced arbitration decision of the berec association, which would be legally binding, helped us to reach a compromise on the committee on industry, research and energy.
let me thank once again the cooperation of my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs and all of our parliamentary team, including the assistants, advisers and administrators of the committee on industry, research and energy, because the cooperation has been excellent and very complicated.
it not only updates existing legislation to adapt to new technologies in a rapidly changing environment, including the introduction of the 5g mobile standard, but also brings positive improvements for end-users.
madam president, i regret to have to criticize here again the emissions proposal from the workshop of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, but unfortunately, this time too, the committee has not presented a rational document.
the proposed emission targets in the environment, public health and food safety committee text are twice what analyses suggest is realistic and will lead to higher transport costs, higher consumer prices or an increase in the age of the fleet.
i would like to stress once more that the commission proposal is balanced, ambitious and fully in line with our climate objectives.
instead, the commission proposal contains a super—credit system which also preserves the environmental integrity of the co2 target.
co2 emissions standards cannot be set yet for buses, as the co2 emissions are not yet certified.
more precisely, one vehicle is not necessarily linked to one fuel type as in many cases the same vehicle can use several fuels, either conventional, biofuels or other low carbon fuels.
this being said, it does not mean that we are not taking action to decarbonise emissions from fuels.
the eight—year reform will ensure decarbonisation of electricity production and the renewable energies directive will ensure that more low—carbon fuels will enter the market.
in this context we need to apply the principle of better regulation and avoid double regulation and double accounting for incentivising renewable fuels.
thirdly, the approach taken by the commission is to set an equivalent level of stringency from an environmental point of view, as compared with cars and buses.
it covers over 20 sectoral policy dialogues on diverse issues from development cooperation, science and technology, health, climate change, trade, education, skills development to peace migration, security and human rights as well.
we therefore welcome the support of the european union for africa’s development needs through initiatives such as the european external investment plan, the economic partnership agreement and the new africa—european alliance for sustainable investment and jobs.
we need to work together, as the countries of europe and africa, to develop sustainable and humane responses to the challenge of irregular migration.
the fundamental objective of these international treaties and, subsequently, of the regulation is to protect health and the environment from the harmful effects of this group of chemicals.
unfortunately, some of the major amendments were not sent by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the proposal was therefore weakened considerably, which is why i have read them again in plenary.
so i'm asking you, along with environmental and consumer organizations, to vote in favor of stricter limits for some other substances.
i propose to update the limits for short-chain chlorinated paraffins as proposed in a 2015 study initiated by the german environment agency and for the amount of pbde that is in line with international obligations to limit persistent organic pollutants under the stockholm convention.
for those of you who don't know, pops are substances that accumulate in the environment, from where they get into our food chain.
if we do, we have to ask why so many european companies still don't address the fact that their bangladeshi suppliers ignore the most basic social, environmental and human rights.
(applause)
madam president, i certainly agree that we must increase environmental protection and protect it from the growing influences of civilization the growth of transport, manufacturing activity and the general impact on natural resources is enormous at the present time.
but on the other hand, we're getting new technologies and science and research is bringing incredible advances, knowledge and help with technologies that are friendly to the environment.
on the other hand, we must be very careful in defining our climate goals and strategies for the next decade.
i am in favour of strong support for science, research and innovation, which alone will enable people to behave in a friendly and sensible way towards the environment.
the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
these proposals will support the construction of roads, railways, energy networks, oil and gas pipelines and broadband networks that are so important to our citizens and businesses.
there is no doubt that climate change will affect all of us.
we should take more account of the fact that protecting agriculture is not just decarbonisation at the european union level, but also in agriculture, that we have to protect biodiversity, protect soil and water.
it is our strategic partner, our g20 colleague and a hugely important ally on the global stage on various fronts, starting with climate change, the sustainable development goals and wto reform and defence of rules—based international trade.
– madam president, let me begin by emphasising the importance in this current global climate of working ever more closely with like-minded partners across the world.
i think the budget responds to the challenges that the european union faces, whether it's migration, climate change or brexit.
and one last remark, because there was strong – and i know that i’m over time – but also on the climate and the environment.
climate proofing is again a part of this package, so this is as good as we could have made it.
i miss today some of our colleagues who have been very passionate in their contributions, those who have criticised the negotiations between the shadow rapporteurs and the rapporteur, or mr dalunde, who made a very passionate speech on the environmental and climate aspects.
first, on the climate issues: yes, we can always include, in every single provision, a question on, let’s say, climate proofing, or any other issue.
what is not there is the definition of climate proofing, we are asking the commission to look into the methodology and, of course, we will explore it.
but is this legislation in which we should be defining, let’s say, climate proofing, which clearly belongs somewhere else?
i actually think we have gone quite a way towards meeting some of the expectations so that, even on the environment and climate issues, this is a very solid proposal that we have.
the vote will take place on wednesday, 12 december 2018. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by zdzislaw krasnodębski, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on establishing the european defence fund (com(2018)0476 – c8-0268/2018 – 2018/0254 (cod)) (a8—0412/2018).
the vote will take place on wednesday, 12 december 2018. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on – the report by dan nica, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on establishing horizon europe – laying down its rules for participation and dissemination (com(2018)0435 – c8-0252/2018 – 2018/0224(cod)) (a8—0401/2018), and– the report by christian ehler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the programme implementing horizon europe (com(2018)0436 – c8-0253/2018 – 2018/0225(cod)) (a8—0410/2018).
the result is, for example, a reference to the platform for helping regions in need, which i consider to be another step towards coping with the impact of the energy package that the european union has decided to adopt.
mr president, the european union devotes a lot of energy to fighting tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering, and i guess this is the right policy because these are among the most important economic topics today, and we have achieved many successes.
but we must be careful not to destroy the space ecosystem, including companies owned by entities from friendly, allied third countries.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on rare diseases by mairead mcguinness, rory palmer, jadwiga wiśniewska, gesine meissner, tilly metz, estefanía torres martínez and piernicola pedicini, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000118/2018 — b8—0419/2018).
i would firstly like to mention the joint action on rare diseases, which has supported over the past three years the development and sustainability of the orphanet database on rare diseases, and has also helped us to achieve an appropriate codification of rare diseases in the health information system in order to help really to understand more about such a complex issue.
on your questions on sustainable funding of patient organisation support in european reference networks on rare diseases, european reference networks are economically and logistically supported by the commission through the ehealth programme – one resource – and, second, the connecting europe facility programme.
in order to ensure sustainability beyond 2021, we made a proposal in the multiannual financial framework which envisaged support through direct grants, and this is now in the hands of all of us.
that is why at the next meeting on 19 december we are inviting ministers of the environment and ministers of agriculture, once again to discuss what we can do.