on energy efficiency, i cannot help but make a comment on the performance of the s&ds, mrs van brempt.
we have increased gross domestic product by 53% in the last 25 years or so, while co2 emissions have fallen by 23%.
i would like to ask the honourable member: when you talk about energy poverty, are you aware that tenant representatives are warning against rent increases in view of the itre compromise on public buildings, which you supported?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
the commission's proposal - excuse me, commissioner - was very weak on the subject of renewable energies, and the members reached a very good compromise.
i urge you to support this compromise on renewable energy.
the reports on governance and energy efficiency still need to be improved.
we as the epp cannot support the committee's text, and we have serious reservations about the way in which the text is being taken, particularly in the area of energy efficiency and public buildings.
then, on wednesday, we can send a signal to the world by a large majority: we want to implement the paris climate agreement.
i have just returned from the annual meeting of irena, the international renewable energy agency, and it is absolutely clear: europe can do more and europe must do more in energy policy to achieve the climate targets.
irena has done a study for europe the remap study which clearly shows that it is possible to achieve 35% renewable energy by 2030 in a cost-effective way.
irena has also calculated what we're saving in energy costs, in health costs, the staggering sum of between 50 and 130 billion euros.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted.
how can this fishery be considered as environmentally sustainable by the european union when it is banned in a large number of countries, including china, the united states and brazil, which often have less stringent regulations and standards than ours?
today, there is no evidence of the sustainability of electric fishing.
i have to say, madam president, the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it's about the right to self-determined birth, it's about starting life in a human environment.
but we cannot rest on our laurels, but we must take advantage of the current economic climate to make the monetary union stronger, more efficient and more flexible, and therefore we must further deepen the banking and capital markets union.
we must also take action to combat climate change.
we have an opportunity in this house this week, which we hope we will not miss, on the question of the energy package, but the member states must also take the lead.
this includes co-responsibility for the decisive and irreversible implementation of the roadmap for the human rights, social and environmental commitments of the colombian government under the eu-peru-colombia free trade agreement, now in its fifth year.
two years ago precisely, on 16 january 2016, the international atomic energy agency verified that iran had implemented its nuclear—related commitments.
we mourn the demonstrators who have lost their lives simply because they have publicly expressed their legitimate demands for better living conditions, for work, against the drastic price increases and for a livable environment.
it is not possible for trade to allow unfair competitive advantages to exist through environmental dumping and social dumping.
both of these considerations lead us to include rules protecting fundamental workers' rights and environmental standards in our trade agreements.
i would just like to remind you of the agreement with korea, where we have indeed integrated a sustainability chapter, with, for example, domestic advisory groups - made up of companies, workers and ngos - accompanying the process.
and in the course of the discussions on the agreement with canada, the ceta agreement, we have called for precisely these improvements and now we have a revision clause in the ceta agreement to modernise and enforce workers' rights and environmental standards.
and the other option is: we look at the us model, sanctions in the area of the trade agreement, if there are violations of workers' rights or environmental standards in connection with trade flows.
the question is: is there not a third or fourth model between these two, where it is clear that enforceability is being designed with other mechanisms and compensation for the victims of violations of workers' rights and environmental standards can also be built in?
time for a new culture of fair trade, time to give human rights, environmental standards and social standards the importance that fair trade deserves.
are we prepared, as europeans, to take the lead in reforming world trade, in a sustainable world trade whose central message is to put people first?
i do not know whether we will ever be able to really enshrine the necessary standards in the sustainability chapters of our free trade agreements in such a way that they will also be effective, as long as the rest of our free trade agreements follow a different philosophy.
sustainability chapters are not patches to be glued on, unless sustainability is the overall benchmark of an entire trade agreement.
in the process of building the european union we have developed the commitment that the creation of common markets necessarily requires the regulation of environmental protection, health and working conditions here in the internal market, and we know what the reality is.
in environmental and social protection they are left toothless.
the development of global production and value chains and investment requires new regulatory frameworks that can deliver on the clearly defined sustainable development goals of the 2030 agenda.
and one proposal for this would be, for example, to make a catalogue of core environmental, consumer and labour standards binding on all trade agreements, which would also have to be subject to the general dispute settlement mechanism.
the eu has, not least at the insistence of the s&d group, included sustainability chapters in several trade agreements.
and finally, the third suggestion: we must not always talk about sanctions, but also about aid and support when sustainability chapters are being respected.
today we are talking about how to enforce the chapter on sustainable development in our free trade agreements.
but more and more countries actually do sign up to the same notion as we do, that trade policy should be value-based, should be progressive, should include elements that are not only about facilitating trade, but that are also sustainable and fair.
sustainable development chapters in trade can be a very important tool here.
we need to prove in a trade agreement that violation of human rights in sustainable development is actually trade-distorting, and that is not easy.
they have contributed to what we have been able to build in the areas of infrastructure, competitiveness, educational infrastructure, environment, transport, and this is the place to thank all the donor countries that have helped so much for bulgaria, but i think also for the whole region.
the energy union, the social pillar, what jean-claude juncker proposed yesterday... i have three options to calculate, long and orderly, but i want on the one hand to save your time, and at the same time to really feel what is very important to us and what we consider a priority and can with the questions then to us to clarify if there is something misunderstood.
thereby, it is not just an environmental issue, which of course is important, but it is also an issue of how we respect european union laws and rules.
many issues that have been highlighted – the eurozone, finally getting real on climate change, social issues, the rule of law – are very important issues.
issues such as uncontrolled mass migration, climate change, cybersecurity, international trade, the regulation of medicines and major corporations, many of whom are now bigger than states, cannot be solved by 28 countries coming up with 28 different solutions.
last september, i therefore presented to you my very own vision for a more united, stronger and more democratic union: a union where solidarity and responsibility go hand in hand in all policy areas, from migration to the banking and monetary union, from energy to our common budget; a union where the rule of law is not optional but the very basis of everything we do, from implementing decisions jointly taken to preparing enlargements; a union of equals where the euro and schengen, the most visible expressions of european integration, continue to unite our continent.
we know what we need to do together: completing our economic and monetary union; securing our borders; delivering on our social agenda; making our tax system fairer; reforming our asylum system; getting back to schengen; and completing the digital market and the energy union.
but the question remains, because we have to think beyond brexit and the brexit negotiations, whether today's europe, today's european union with its treaties, with its structures, with its institutions, is capable of actually implementing the hopes of people for a social, solidarity-based society, for a fight against climate change.
one of the crucial questions is whether member states have actually provided high-quality sustainable offers to young people, because the youth employment initiative is not about giving something to do to young people who don’t know what to do with their time.
it is about giving perspectives to young people; quality and sustainable offers so that they can enter the labour market.
thanks to parliament’s hard work, one of the key initiatives, the legislative package on waste, is now very close to adoption.
there is a tide of growing awareness and concern among people, businesses and governments about the enormity of plastic pollution.
in last year’s special eurobarometer survey, 84% of european citizens said that they are worried about the impact of plastics on our environment.
plastic pollution is an enormous challenge, threatening our environment and health.
every second, approximately 700 kilos of plastic waste ends up in our oceans.
with this strategy, we aim to foster a new, sustainable and profitable plastics economy, with the design of products and other parts of the production chain taking into account re-use and recycling needs.
plastic packaging accounts for about 60% of all plastic waste generated in europe every year.
in the shorter term, we need to curb plastic waste and reduce the use of certain types of plastic.
together with this strategy, we adopted a new directive on port reception facilities, which goes a long way, ensuring that waste is brought back to land instead of being discharged at sea.
since a significant part of plastic pollution comes from other parts of the world, we will need to work together with the rest of the world to make sure that we improve the situation.
we have been a global leader on climate action and we can be a global leader here as well.
according to the estimates only 5% of the value of plastic packaging materials remains in the economy, the rest goes to waste after a very short first use.
this will be achieved by stimulating design for circularity, boosting recycled content and stimulating better separate waste collection.
plastics packaging today accounts for about 60% of all plastics waste generated in europe every year.
in other words, our aim is, first, to create a truly well-functioning single market for recyclable plastics, second to improve waste collection and, third, promote recycled plastics.
existing eu funds such as the structural funds, the european fund for strategic investments and horizon 2020 will continue to support businesses and member states to upgrade their waste management infrastructure.
but plastic waste reduction depends not only on the recycling infrastructure, it can also be reduced by using more sustainable materials which could replace traditional plastic while offering the same functionalities.
we have a huge problem, we have a problem with the pollution of the world's oceans.
we need a regulatory framework that puts those who want to promote recycling and those who want to promote sustainable production methods in a better competitive position.
so the rules have to be that you don't lose money when you invest in sustainable production, but you make money.
i welcome the commission's approach to the implementation of environmental requirements in its plastics strategy.
in concrete terms, the fact that germany will not be illegally dumping its 570 000 tonnes of plastic waste per year in poland, bulgaria or romania, which it has so far taken from china, is indeed a matter for the internal market.
there are reasons and arguments for a serious policy of waste prevention, as well as technologies for its recovery.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that is contrary to the interests of the environment.
if we had once properly implemented our european waste laws - including in my own country, i do not want to deny this - we would have far fewer problems.
there was a young woman who was making furniture out of plastic waste from the sea.
– madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur mr danti for his report underlining the fundamental role of professions and the need for high-quality professional services as well as an effective regulatory environment.
in order to assist the member states with the removal of specific unjustified restrictions and to identify possibilities for improving the regulatory environment, we have put forward reform recommendations for seven professional services sectors.
– mr president, first i want to state very clearly and strongly that the commission, and i personally, are shocked by the news that emissions tests have been conducted on animals and humans, because no eu laws justify such behaviour.
it was just two-and-a-half years ago that we found out that car manufacturers had cheated in emissions tests.
then we read in the press just last year that private emissions tests had been conducted on animals in the usa and on humans in germany.
the industry promised us – during our investigation into the emissions scandal – a cultural change: that it would be transparent and would investigate.
in the commission we work very hard, hand in hand, on air quality and our citizens’ health, so i want to say first that i fully support commissioner vella in his most recent efforts to accelerate compliance with long-overdue emissions limits.
from my side, and with the strong support of the european parliament – for which i thank you very much – we have put a legal framework in place that would largely prevent future emissions cheating.
we must do something to protect human health and the environment.
i can tell you that i do not in any way endorse these emissions tests, and i can only describe the frauds of the companies involved as scandalous.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on energy, research and technology.
that is why we are proposing a european clean mobility fund, which can be funded 85% by industry, 10% by eu funds and 5% by carbon fines.
tomorrow will hopefully be a very good day for climate action in europe and worldwide.
investing in climate-friendly technologies is rewarded.
but in order to make these investments actually happen in europe and not drive out the energy-intensive industry which is in international competition, it was important for us as the epp to provide free certificates for those who are up to date with the latest technology.
we are protecting jobs, we are creating innovation, and we are helping the climate.
we are doing a lot at the eu level at the moment to protect the climate, to save energy, to be more efficient, so in sum, you could say, to help maintain and contribute to our creation.
we have already had cop21, 22 and 23. we want to protect the climate.
we want to do this globally, and we want to apply the polluter pays principle and say: whoever damages the climate must be compensated and paid accordingly.
the european union emissions trading system (ets) is a key instrument of our climate policy and we all managed to agree on a solid and robust framework for the next decade to ensure that we meet our ambitious emissions reduction target, while preserving the competitiveness of our industry and fostering low-carbon innovation and modernisation.
internationally, many are looking at us and our european union ets as a model to develop similar forward-looking climate policies, and by putting in place the necessary legislation to renew and strengthen the european union ets, the european union confirms its determination to lead the way in the fight against climate change and honouring our commitments under the paris agreement.
– madam president, first of all let me congratulate the honourable member, professor jerzy buzek, and the respective shadow rapporteurs for the constructive, thorough and positive report on the communication on accelerating clean energy innovation.
we have presented the progress made last year in the communication on the state of the energy union, but the coming year will be crucial.
your report is clear: public procurement can be a powerful tool to support the market uptake for clean energy innovation.
your assessment that funding for clean energy research and innovation will require a tremendous increase are the same as our conclusions.
on your point on the eu’s global clean energy leadership: we are the leaders.
how many people are still surprised when we say that 40% of the patents in renewable technologies are european?
at the time, i was introduced by the us secretary of energy as someone coming from the only country in the world that was able to run for four days straight on renewable energy alone.
we are also working closely with other global initiatives, such as the breakthrough energy coalition created by bill gates, which is now exploring a public—private collaboration with the commission and four other mission innovation members.
our views also coincide on the citizen’s central role in energy innovation that you referred to.
(applause)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
while energy poverty affects some 54 million eu citizens, some of our policies and measures prevent us from truly adhering to the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
but we all know - apart from our colleague mrs korwin-mikke - that strong action is urgently needed in the fields of sustainable energy and climate change.
but despite international commitments and despite the progress of climate change, some member states are still doing far too little to promote the energy transition.
we urgently need clean energy projects with tight timelines at the national and local levels.
in the case of the conversion to renewable energy sources, workers in the fossil fuel sector must be provided with public guarantees to ensure a social transition to the energy transition.
it is very comprehensive because it is about the energy of the future and the innovation we need to do that.
jerzy buzek has made it clear that energy will be necessary for everything in the future.
and i would argue that the clean energy we want in the context of the clean energy for all europeans package is perhaps in many respects not yet mature, perhaps not yet as well known.
i think, for example, because i'm very involved in maritime things, about energy from the sea.
but there's research on wave energy, on tidal energy, and many people say that the fuel of the future for an airplane may have been produced from algae, and it may also be very environmentally friendly, even carbon neutral.
security, terrorism, cyber attacks, conflicts in neighbouring areas, demographic changes and increasing migration, climate change, social inequalities and the digital divide: these are the challenges we face every day and which impose the need to adapt to the main strategic decisions.
it is this attractive force that we need to harness to make our environment better and more resilient, and thus ourselves stronger, safer and more prosperous.
equally important is our development assistance, which as global leaders we contribute to the un sustainable development goals.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
we must continue to build the european energy union and ensure that our citizens have access to sustainable, secure and affordable energy.
it is therefore important for us to develop strategic energy projects aimed at diversification and security of supply.
for croatia, i would like to highlight the lng terminal project in krk, which is a strategic project of my government and which has already received financial support from the european union, thus positioning croatia on the energy map of europe.
on the other hand, we will fulfil all the obligations of the paris agreement and try to continue our tradition of a country that in 1895 had the first hydroelectric power plant in europe to develop the production of electricity from renewable sources, and the share of renewable energy in consumption in croatia is already at 29%, which means that we have met the european 2030 targets almost ten years earlier.
a union that promotes the balanced development of the member states, that builds the economic, social and territorial cohesion of our regions, a union that provides security for its citizens, protects its external borders and is able to respond to all security threats, a union that invests in education, culture and creativity, research and development, that adapts to contemporary challenges and the digital economy, a union that is financially stable, sustainable and capable of protecting citizens from possible financial crises, guided by the principle of solidarity, and finally a union that is a key political actor in global governance, with defence capabilities, a promoter of free trade, a leader in development aid, environmental protection and the fight against climate change.
you said that you want to be on the energy map.
i think croatia has plenty of resources to be on the map of renewable energies and to be at the forefront.
therefore, i would urge you to reconsider your plans for those lng terminals in the northern adriatic, and also to reconsider some other huge development plans – like golf courses – because those would hurt not only the environment, but also local businesses.
they want to have the same opportunities, the same guarantees, the same standards and rights, the same rights, the same fundamental freedoms, the same systems of governance and the same environment that our friends, colleagues and relatives share inside the european union, and this means the citizens of the western balkan countries are asking for reforms so that they can enjoy the same rights, protections and standards as the citizens of the european union.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european community and the european atomic energy community with the european atomic energy community.
we will campaign for an equitable and sustainable society of shared prosperity, opportunity and dignity.
we know that only with proper environment and sustainability provisions can trade be really progressive.
it was introduced to conserve energy.
in fact, the energy savings are in the range of 0.1 to 0.5%; this has been shown in many studies.
it's even bad for the climate, you know, because the sun is producing more co2 pollution practically in the evening, and that's not good for the climate... (interrupting call) no, it's true, actually, let me finish!
as i said in my introductory remarks, the commission sees the trans-adriatic pipeline (tap) as an important project not only for italy but also for south-east europe and the european union as a whole, because it will bring significant energy security and diversification of gas supply sources.
it also has the potential to stimulate investment, to create jobs and improve their quality and ultimately to reduce energy prices to the consumer.
my first comment is related to respect for human rights in countries which supply energy to the european union.
the southern gas corridor, beyond its energy dimension, also serves as a unique platform for engagement with azerbaijan, georgia and turkey.
there was a comment about the possible effect on climate change and the impact vis-à-vis the paris agreement.
i would say that the tap and the southern gas corridor will not, per se, increase gas-related greenhouse gas emissions because this is an alternative source of gas and it is not intended to serve demand growth.
the objective is to diversify sources in order to increase energy security.
in fact, it is very likely to reduce the carbon footprint of the units of gas arriving in the european union because the entire corridor will consist of brand new, state-of-the-art pipeline infrastructures, which are inevitably less leakage-prone than those built in the 1970s.
many of you referred to the environmental impact the project may have.
the environmental impact assessment for the tap started in 2012. it was improved through the environmental impact assessment decree issued by the italian minister for the environment in september 2014, with 65 conditions to be fulfilled during the pre-construction, construction and operational phases of the project.
it is clear that there were legislation changes in the area of environmental impact assessment in italy, and the powers to approve some verification-of-compliance conditions were given back to central government.
ms d’amato asked the commission some questions, which have been answered in a letter from commissioner vella, raising the issue of whether the decision to give to central government the power to approve this verification of compliance would violate three environmental directives.
in the commission’s view, there has been a commitment from the tap project promoters to avoid any environmental or negative social impact.
some 20 landfall points along the apulian coastline were studied, from brindisi to tronto, in order to identify the one, at san foca, with the least environmental impact.
care has been taken in respect of sustainable water management: the pipeline has been buried 1.5 metres below agriculture land to ensure that farmers can continue using their land, and olive trees will be relocated.
we also understand that the tap project promoters are implementing social and environmental investment projects in communities along the route.
these projects are being implemented to promote sustainable development, and in full consultation and cooperation with communities along the pipeline route.
with an initial capacity of 10 billion cubic metres, it will be transporting gas only from the shah deniz gas field in azerbaijan, and no other gas can be transported as part of this initial capacity as that would be in violation of the exemption decision that tap received from the national energy regulatory authorities.
such assessments are the responsibility of project promoters, and the promoters of the tap carried out very extensive assessments of environmental social impacts for all the countries it crosses – greece, albania and italy.
the complete dossiers on these environmental and social impact assessment are publicly available on the tap website.
the commission understands that very high-quality environmental and social impact assessments were also requested by the international financial institutions approached by the tap project promoters for the project financing.
the commission, together with other members of the regional groups established under the ten-e regulation in the context of the projects of common interest (pci) process, assessed the tap contribution to energy policy objectives, such as security of supply, market integration, promotion of competition and sustainability.
in this context, the tap was positively assessed as contributing to energy policy, and it was therefore included in the list of projects of common interest (pci list) initially in 2013, and subsequently in 2015 and 2017.
the debate is closed.
i am thinking of the paris agreement and climate protection, sustainable development goals, to name just a few.
written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report of ms pilar ayuso, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the definition, presentation and labelling of spirit drinks, the use of the names of spirit drinks in the presentation and labelling of other foodstuffs and the protection of geographical indications for spirit drinks (com (((2016) 0750 - c8-0496/2016 - 2016/0392 (((cod)) (a8-0021/2018)).
no, it's about preserving and protecting bees as the foundation of our environment.
it's about leaving our children an environment where it buzzes and blooms.
journalists have the right to act freely in investigating corruption and taxation issues, and this parliament should waste no time in safeguarding that right.
i believe that a value-based trade policy aimed at creating a high level of protection for labour, environmental and human rights is very relevant to sustainable global development and i support such action.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
the global environment, however, remains uncertain, and we need to continue to ensure the conditions to support confidence.
the european council will address the different single market strategies, including when it comes to the digital single market, the capital markets union and the energy union, to ensure sustained progress.
we need a vision of europe that is inclusive, that values diversity, protects citizens, empowers self-determination, makes the economy fairer and realises the ecological and social transformation that we owe to our children and to the world.
and then, of course, we have to take climate policy and the paris agreement much more seriously than we have done so far.
this is a really green, ecological proposal from the commissioner for budgets.
the eu's high-profile calls for solutions in brussels and its blocking of paths to member states at home, whether it be a transaction tax or other revenue changes, will permanently prevent investment in a fairer, more social, sustainable and peaceful europe of coexistence.
just one example: connecting europe, an infrastructure, whether road, rail, energy, is applied for, tested, approved, awarded, built and billed across borders.
we can take some measures, but they are not as sustainable as if we were actually freeing the economy from many of the bureaucratic fetters, if we were creating the conditions for the economy to grow.
it will then be less about the state of infrastructure and the availability of natural resources, and more about the nature of relations which make a relevant contribution to solving the existing serious socioeconomic and environmental problems, and to the modernisation and democratisation of societies and governments.
for the first time, the european commission has placed seven member states under surveillance for aggressive taxation in its country reports; the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the main priorities for the year.
we live in a global economy and we have to face it, both in terms of production, sales, sales, trade - fair world trade - and in terms of social and related environmental conditions and impacts.
there is poverty, there is social degradation, there is environmental destruction on all continents.
secondly, do you agree with me that we cannot unilaterally lower tariffs on cars from america, but that we must always lower tariffs for everyone, and that of course the competitive situation in countries with low social and environmental standards, like china or india, is very, very difficult for us, and therefore we would of course mess up everything if we unilaterally lowered tariffs on cars?
and we have countless challenges ahead of us: climate change, instability at our external border, terrorism, globalisation, the digital transition and migration.
only the european union as a whole will be able to lead concerted action at global level to implement the paris agreement, which is vital to respond to the climate change that threatens humanity's very existence.
only the union will give strength to a trade policy which can help to regulate global markets and protect the high social, environmental and food safety standards which we want to preserve by regulating globalisation, which is challenging the sustainability of the european social model.
only the development of the social pillar and the single market and joint investment in the knowledge society and the energy transition will enable us to ensure growth and decent jobs, the only effective response to the anxieties that the digital transition and automation are placing on the future of work.
(applause) only at european level can we tackle the root causes of the problem of migration, which is changing the balance of our societies, by promoting inclusive growth and sustainable development, peace and human rights in africa, by cooperating with countries of origin and transit, by following the call by the united nations secretary-general, antónio guterres, for a new global compact on migration, just as only by acting in solidarity with each other can we ensure the defence of our common external border against the networks of organised crime that promote trafficking in human beings and by sharing in solidarity the humanitarian duty to ensure international protection for all those in need.
the lasting and sustainable stabilisation of the euro area is the first condition for building europe's future on solid foundations.
only in this way can we honour the commitment we have made to our citizens to ensure greater security in the face of climate change, external threats and terrorism, and the future of our social model, employment and the management of migration, without sacrificing policies that are already part of the identity of the european union, such as the common agricultural policy or cohesion policy.
but we must also be aware that agricultural policy must make a greater contribution to tackling climate change and cohesion policy must contribute to preventing radicalisation in the urban peripheries and must focus more on people as the instrument of our social pillar.
in the coming months, therefore, we should complete together the work begun in recent years on the energy union, the digital union - the prime minister has spoken about this - the capital markets union and, of course, the deepening of the economic and monetary area, a subject on which we in the commission have a wide cross-section of views with our portuguese friends.
today i want to talk about another issue on this continent, which is the sense of fear that people on this continent feel, the fear of loss that is there, towards migration, globalization, climate change, the changes that people are facing.
finally, i think that the social democratic party family should also ask themselves whether robert fico's comments about journalists being prostitutes, snakes and hyenas have not contributed to the climate for this murder.
it means that when you want to and when you put a little political energy into a subject, you can.
i thank the shadow rapporteurs and the members of the two committees, employment and social affairs and culture and education, for the climate of openness and fairness.
transport is the only sector that continues to increase emissions, as it did last year and the years before that.
we had another 0.5% more greenhouse gases in the mobility sector in 2016 than in 2015. you pointed out that we already had the 2014 clean power for transport directive.
may i say very personally that you can be reassured that, as a former commissioner for this policy and having invested a lot of energy in the reform of this policy, i still have a very close eye on it and on performance in particular.
this official united nations day of action is based on general assembly resolution 47/237 of 20 september 1993. this year's theme is 'promoting the role of the family in a peaceful society and sustainable development'.
and i hope that you will agree with me on the need to inform on 15 may, international family day, with the same effort, the same resources and the same determination, about the importance of the family, based on marriage between a man and a woman, for the sustainable development of all western societies and the european union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'climate change' in the definition of the term 'climate change'.
with the agreement on burden sharing and an ambitious lulucf regulation, we have now made european climate policy concrete.
but while burden sharing is about co2 reduction targets, lulucf is about the positive contribution of agriculture and forestry to combating climate change.
i am convinced that we have succeeded in strengthening the bioeconomy - wood for houses, furniture and bioenergy - but at the same time we have found a benchmark against which to measure the impact on the climate, the so-called forest reference value.
this is the only way to ensure active and sustainable forest management.
this is good for the forest, good for the climate and, last but not least, good for the forestry manager.
i would have liked to have seen the reference value of 20002012, which would have given member states even more flexibility in their harvest rates without weakening the climate balance.
because flexible forest management means active and sustainable use, which opens up even more storage potential.
in the lulucf area, there is no reduction potential, but on the contrary, there is a huge potential for climate change.
in total, our forests absorb about 10% of the total eu emissions.
ladies and gentlemen, vote for this regulation on wednesday, because climate change and the contribution of the forest are of concern to us all.
when a forest is in a quasi-self-balancing state, there's a lot of good that happens, but there's no carbon storage.
we want to manage our forests sustainably, and sustainable management is the key to ensuring that the forest, the forest, can also act as a carbon store.
the gerbrandy report on burden sharing or climate action, i agree with those who say: 'we could have imagined a little more.'
i find it particularly regrettable that the council of ministers is always ready to impose strict climate protection requirements when they do not concern the member states.
the lulucf regulation is a climate change instrument and not a forestry policy.
we are dealing in this house with the decarbonisation of our society in the context of climate policy and beyond, as well as with other important issues for the future, such as the bioeconomy or the circular economy.
our forests are not just a carbon store for the climate balance, but a resource.
they provide renewable building and packaging materials, but also renewable energy for electricity, heat and mobility.
we can effectively ensure sustainable management in the member states - unlike what often happens with imports.
i think that together we can be proud of the result of our joint effort to agree on the legal framework for the next decade for the sectors not covered by the european union emissions trading system.
we all know about the scale of efforts needed to reach our long—term climate targets and some contributors to the debate have pointed to that.
first, that the ambition level increase is significant because a modified trajectory – a starting date as assured by the european parliament of seven months earlier – saves more than 120 million tonnes of emissions over the period 2021—2030 and hence increases the additional effort needed, compared to the initial proposal, by more than ten percent.
i think it is very important to ensure that they can enter swiftly into force and that the necessary provisions can be in place by january 2021, because there is no time to lose in our fight against climate change.
because competitiveness and sustainability, that's a medal.
i have only one wish: i have been working on waste in this house for thirty years.
we must see to it that we avoid waste, that we recycle it when it is there.
we've just been able to do a plastic exhibition in brussels with a few colleagues, which shows how serious waste problems can be for the ocean.
we must also see that we create alternative products, that we also collect and recycle the waste that exists, for example.
i have to say, madam president, the circular economy is the second most important pillar of sustainable development on this planet, after climate protection.
waste landfills should be a model to be used in the future.
it is not about waste, but about raw materials and recyclable materials.
the vote will take place on wednesday 18 april 2018. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report of ms daciana octavia sârbu, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the implementation of the seventh environment action programme (2017/2030 (ini)) (a8-0059/2018).
– madam president, i would like to congratulate ms sârbu and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on their excellent report on the implementation of the 7th environment action programme (eap).
land and soil degradation and, more broadly, the sustainability of agriculture and of our mobility are among the areas in which a lot still needs to be done.
it is, however, fair to say that overall there has been good progress and we are working to meet our goals to protect our climate and pave the way for a low-carbon and circular economy.
the circular economy package, including our new waste legislation and the commission’s plastics strategy, will help us on our way to decoupling economic growth from environmental pressures, including carbon emissions.
the european union is also well on track to meet its climate and energy targets for 2020. we expect emissions to reduce by more than 20% by 2020, taking the first steps that put the eu towards a transformation to a low-carbon economy, as stated in the 7th eap.
as part of a global effort to limit the average temperature increase to well below two degrees centigrade compared to pre-industrial levels, we are also working towards reducing by 2050 greenhouse gas emissions by 80% to 95%, compared to 1990 levels.
under the paris agreement, the eu has pledged to reduce emissions by at least 40% domestically by 2030 compared to 1990. we have taken key steps on putting in place the legislative framework on how to get there.
i can mention here the eu emissions trading system (ets) revision for after 2020, the targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at member state-level in sectors other than ets and the regulation of absorptions and emissions in the land sectors.
in terms of quality of life and a healthy environment for our citizens, we have worked hard together to protect people’s health from exposure to harmful pollutants.
these are all important steps towards a non-toxic environment.
the environment implementation review (eir) and the environmental compliance action plan will help to make this happen, not against but together with the member states in all areas, including our fight against air pollution.
our nature action plan to improve the implementation of the birds and habitats directives is an important step forward in strengthening the conservation of biodiversity, complementing the invasive alien species regulation, which is tackling an important driver of biodiversity loss in the eu.
but 2020 is around the corner and we need to do more to achieve our biodiversity targets.
the commission’s recently adopted action plan for sustainable finance will make europe a frontrunner in shifting trillions of euros towards those investments needed to build a sustainable economy.
i welcome your strong support for an ambitious environmental agenda.
we need to successfully address environmental challenges to meet the sustainable development goals.
the european union has always been, and should continue to be, a frontrunner for sustainability and we must continue to show leadership in this process at all levels: at global level and, even more importantly, here at home.
as a result, we must now admit that we will definitely not achieve the objectives of the seventh environmental action programme, because that would require a review of many policy areas - above all the common agricultural policy, which is currently being reviewed.
the commission could thus now demonstrate how seriously it takes environmental objectives.
we must be curious to see whether it will propose incentives for higher environmental standards in agriculture, whether it will want to reduce the use of pesticides massively and finally put a stop to the excessive use of antibiotics in livestock farming.
the commission must finally recognise that substantial improvements in environmental protection and food safety can only be achieved if there is a major change in production methods and social consumption behaviour.
perhaps then we will be able to achieve the environmental objectives in the future.
we are debating today at a time of great transformations linked to digital technology, global warming and its consequences, which are seriously challenging the foundations of the industrial society on which our great compromises were based, are raising fears, are leading us to re-examine some of the great balances and are forcing us to rethink the grammar of action that is collectively ours.
it is now embodied in our common commitment to protecting the environment, the climate and health.
our american partner, with whom we share so much, is now facing the temptation to withdraw and reject multilateralism, the climate challenge or trade issues.
no, it is to recognise that, faced with these great upheavals in the world, these great transformations, at the moment we are living, we need a sovereignty stronger than our own, complementary and not a substitute, which alone will allow us, in the face of great migrations, global insecurity and economic, social and environmental transformations, to provide the right answers.
sovereignty is also climate and energy sovereignty.
we are here finishing the discussions on the energy-climate package, but it is clear that we will have to open a new stage.
many of you have already committed to this and i hope that in the coming months we can reopen the debate on a carbon price floor.
it is not a technical whim or a technical instrument, it is the condition for a credible energy transition.
france is ready to increase its contribution, but to do so, it is necessary to consider a re-founding of the budget itself by creating new own resources, which i support, in the digital sector and in certain energy resources, by abolishing the rebates which would not survive brexit, by properly financing european action in the field of defence and migration, by modernising current policies and by defining conditionalities, i would say, rather, criteria for fiscal and social convergence, in particular.
mr president, the issue of nord stream 2 is part of the european solidarity you have mentioned in the field of energy policy.
on this basis, we can work together to achieve more effective development cooperation, conflict resolution and sustainable economic growth.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the community's energy supply.
in addition to maritime safety, emsa is also responsible for pollution prevention and, for example, for monitoring the sea with remote controlled flight systems.
both are competitive, safe and sustainable.
after four years, we have almost completed the project of a new environmental regulation after 18 trilogues under six council presidencies.
the commission is therefore asked to submit a report in the next few years to clarify the situation with regard to pollution: where does it come from, who causes it?
but the commercial sector is also called upon to take account of the ecological sector in the end.
new opportunities will also be created by the opening of new markets for organic heterogeneous seeds, as mr häusling has just said, and indeed other plant reproductive material with a high level of genetic and phenotypic biodiversity.
this will improve biodiversity and crop sustainability and will boost innovation.
good things take time that's really what you can say about the eu's environmental regulation.
i would like to compare these trialogue agreements on ecological regulation to a backpack, a backpack that we carry on the back of the ecological farmer, but also on the back of society.
we have too little of the polluter principle when it comes to environmental toxins anyway.
but here it is attacked again in a big, massive style and secretly, very secretly, hidden behind the shadows of the year 2021 figures and four years later, then the procedural idea of ecological regulation, which we know and appreciate in germany, for example, falls to a final control.
honourable members, colleagues, at a time when our health systems are under increasing pressure and are asked to do more with less, we simply cannot afford to waste the potential of vaccinations to save lives.
we need to harness our all our resources and energy in a coordinated effort to restore public confidence in vaccination.
school, infrastructure, environment, social, defense, homeland security.
we want to increase the life programme and thus our climate and nature protection activities by 50% and will thus make an effective contribution to the paris agreement and the conservation of nature and the environment also getting a correspondingly strengthened offer at european level and with a percentage of 5.5% for mainstreaming climate protection we will create a complementary upward basis for this.
with the various proposals you have before you, we want to get about 10% of our revenue from new own resources, about eur 24 billion new, including the tried and tested emissions trading system, including corporate tax, but also completely new measures.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
increases in the cost of roads, railways, environmental measures, gas pipelines, salaries for researchers and staff.
because everyone wants to be on the photo at the paris climate change agreement, everyone wanted to be on it when it was signed, but whether we save the planet for ourselves and for future generations, that’s not decided by selfies.
so i am happy to see that more money will be put into climate-related issues, but if we’re ending up at 25%, that’s certainly a step in the right direction, but it’s a very small step.
we should actually be at 50% spending on climate-change-related issues.
and what is true for climate change is certainly also true for the development goals.
but that means working against poverty worldwide, and if we don’t spend at least 0.7% of our gni on sustainable development, following very clear criteria, then we’re failing the global community.
and with that proposal, the eu would finally have more own income, independently of the whims of the member states, and those revenue sources would be contributing to something good: fairer taxes, less plastic pollution and less climate change.
this must come from new taxes - environmental taxes, plastic taxes - which are of course green, but i would urge the digital tax.
we greens want to have 50 percent environmental spending, of course.
we live in a world of global competition in research, but in china, research is not free, in america, there's an american president whose own administration has to try to hide climate data from him.
the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 3 may 2018. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by andrey novakov, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the implementation of cohesion policy and the achievement of the thematic objective 'promoting sustainable transport and removing bottlenecks in key network infrastructures' (article 9 (7) of the cpr) (2017/2285(ini)) (a8-0136/2018).
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the following questions: the request for an oral reply to the council on the worldwide ban on animal testing of cosmetic products by sirpa pietikäinen, miriam dalli, bolesław g. piecha, frédérique ries, stefan eck, marco affronte, eleonora evi, sylvie goddyn, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000040/2018 - b8-0017/2018) - (2017/2922rsp)) and the request for an oral reply to the commission on the worldwide ban on animal testing of cosmetic products by sirpa pietikäinen, miriam dalli, bolesław g. piecha, ries, stefan eck, marco affronte, eleonora fronta, evi, sylvie goddyn, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000040/2018 - b8-0041/2018) - (2017/2222rsp)).
global warming is not a matter of doubt.
the paris agreement must be implemented and, here too, the energy transition is an opportunity for innovation and for the transformation of our economic model.
reciprocity based on high social and environmental standards must be our objective.
we can be the engine of renewed multilateralism and we are the engine for tackling these great challenges facing humanity: peace, security, development or global warming.
most regional potentials would go to waste without connections in the european union.
the problem is, actually, that we should be open to technology, which is also better for emissions.
we need infrastructure for alternative energy and for digital things and also transport infrastructure.
transport is the only sector where emissions have increased by 28% since 1990!
and above all, we need fair competition - we have already said this - because if we make rail transport, which is environmentally friendly, permanently expensive and road transport, which is harmful to the climate, permanently cheap, we will not achieve our objectives.
without a change in mobility, we're not going to stop climate change.
i would like to see a permanent solution to the problem of quotas and access rights for sustainable management.
environmental ngos have therefore called for a vote against this trilogue result.
the agreement that you have reached in the trilogues together with the council is a very good result, and i would like to thank you all for working tirelessly to ensure a solid, sustainable result that works in practice.
for example, by introducing flexibility through the concept of ranges, which allows us to quickly adapt, following the most up-to-date scientific advice to the benefit of stake-holders and also to the benefit of sustainable stocks.
we need to ensure that fishermen have the tools to sustain sustainable fishing practices; for example, by adapting their gears so that they can alleviate choke situations in mixed demersal fisheries in a way that is in line with the cfp objectives.
sustainable fishing will continue to be possible in the future, in accordance with the latest scientific knowledge.
unfortunately there is - and this has been raised - now by very one-sided environmental groups the call to vote against this plan.
as i think we can all agree, eu agriculture needs to better manage our natural resources, to limit our greenhouse gas emissions and to adapt to climate change.
we have to bolster environmental care and climate action and contribute to the environmental and climate objectives of the european union, which are already agreed by this parliament.
the current green architecture will be replaced by a new one that is based on the new delivery model, with environmental and climate objectives which will be set at european union level, not at member state level.
innovation and knowledge-sharing is a key issue for the future cap, with benefits in terms of competitiveness, sustainability and simplification.
we all agreed that sustainable development was necessary.
we are in favour of a common sustainable agricultural policy with two pillars.
it is not the farms which contribute most to the environment, to animal welfare, to landscape protection that are supported, but all of them, without distinction.
the environmental, climate and biodiversity challenges we are facing are so momentous and radical that we do, indeed, need the race to the top that you are talking about.
this is why we pursue carbon divestment together with promoting green finance.
the commission has already mentioned a number of things: climate policy, the fight against unemployment, especially youth unemployment, internal and external security, more for education, social inclusion and the stabilisation of africa so that not so many people have to go on the move.
from the discussion, i can conclude that we all have a common interest in promoting peace and dialogue for sustainable development for the benefit of, and in respect of, the will of all nicaraguans.
such an agenda would be based on four tracks: first, a deeper relationship on energy issues, notably in the field of trade in liquefied natural gas; second, voluntary regulatory cooperation between selected regulatory authorities on an ad hoc basis; third, joint work towards world trade organisation (wto) reform to level the playing field and towards mutually acceptable solutions to lift the current blockage of the wto upload body nomination; and fourth, discussions for reciprocal improvements in market access for industrial products, including cars and car parts, and liberalisation of goods in public procurement.
so we need to have a common european industrial policy that looks to protect our workers but that also supports a move to a low-carbon economy.
it is about overcapacity, it is about capacity, it is about production volumes, it is about issues that we have to deal with together, for example in the steel forum within the framework of the g20 or the oecd chinese, american, european, steel producing countries and aluminium producing countries to see how we can organise today's production in a way that preserves jobs, sustainable development, environmental standards promising.
the other thing that i made very clear today - and i know this is also a reflection of your work - is that elections need to take place in an environment that ensures and guarantees that the day after the election all those involved recognize the result.
the european union is now the first major player in the world to take into account the social and environmental costs of setting a fair price level in international comparison.
this is the first time that we have had to deal with social dumping and environmental dumping.
the task now is to develop a regulatory framework in world trade to prevent exploitation of labour and the destruction of nature and our climate.
finally, i would like to ask the commission, mrs malmström, to commission a sustainability study on contractual options for future trade relations with the united kingdom.
i think yesterday was another year of climate change.
the negotiations on the paris agreement on climate change have shown that the eu is a powerful force in finding solutions to global problems.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
in addition to this economic damage, we must of course also regret that it is at the expense of road safety, but also at the expense of the environment.
the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 31 may 2018. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs frédérique ries, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the implementation of the ecodesign directive (2009/125/ec) (2017/2087(ini)) (a8-0165/2018).
consumers, households and the environment are the first to pay the price.
member states and companies must be given more resources to meet the dual requirement of manufacturing quality and environmental and health quality in product design.
we cannot subject all this to a vague energy-saving dictate.
it is a very important matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
– mr president, honourable members, i am glad we are meeting today to finalise the adoption of the regulation on monitoring and reporting of co2 emissions from heavy-duty vehicles.
this is the first piece of legislation on co2 emissions from lorries, buses and coaches.
this regulation is a crucial instrument to close the current knowledge gap on the co2 emissions and fuel consumption from heavy-duty vehicles put on the european union market.
in addition, the regulation paves the way for the co2 emissions standards for lorries proposed by the commission last month, which will need to rely on the data reported for its compliance processes.
the commission invites you to support this motion and continue the work with a swift negotiation of the co2 emissions standards for lorries already on the table at both the european parliament and the council.
we were concerned that, following the mandate of the environment committee, the data would then find its way into the hands of other manufacturers and that these other manufacturers outside europe, for example in china, would take advantage of it.
the paris agreement on climate change requires us to use all our potential.
in fact, here in the european parliament we ask ourselves almost daily how we as the european union are going to achieve the paris climate targets.
we know how important it will be to meet the paris targets, and unlike our transatlantic partners, we are convinced that this agreement will ensure that we in europe will do our fair share in reducing greenhouse gases.
but that also means that we have to look at what greenhouse gas emissions are being emitted in the trucking sector.
we know that 5% of all greenhouse gas emissions in europe come from the commercial vehicle sector, and that is why nobody can explain - not to the citizens, but also not to the companies that buy trucks - that co2 emissions have not yet been monitored, have not yet been certified.
it is good that we have negotiated sanctions into this paper so that we can also sanction manufacturers who do not comply with the transparency obligations, because we are all working day by day to reduce co2 emissions, and the manufacturers of heavy trucks must do the same.
because we still see that lorry traffic within the european union is increasing, that rail freight traffic is decreasing, even though rail traffic would be much more climate friendly.
so it's a big success, an important step, that we've introduced tests that measure real emissions.
it is true that even if only 5% of co2 emissions are from trucks and heavy goods vehicles, 25% are from road transport, and we urgently need to improve.
so it's unlikely that it's important that we actually have standards now for these emissions and for measuring efficiency for the first time.
what we have now is good for the environment, good for transparency and it's going to take us further.
by creating an environment where innovation can thrive while guaranteeing high standards for the protection of users, we will foster high levels of trust in technology.
it is in turn our unity that gives us strength globally to pursue better and more sustainable standards for everyone; to defend global trading rules; to boldly address climate change; to protect our citizens against geopolitical and/or geoeconomic challenges, and to better grasp the opportunities that globalisation has to offer.
from plastics to migration, from energy to transport, from the european solidarity corps to the european citizens’ initiative.
but one thing is becoming very clear: we cannot believe that we are actually able to develop a sustainable european union policy that addresses the global problem of migration at all with just spontaneous rescue actions.
the confidentiality of communications is a fundamental right and with the so-called different topic eprivacy regulation, this is finally being applied in the digital environment.
mr president, in order to succeed with a more sustainable architecture of the euro area, we need to observe four kinds of logic: the logic of sensible stabilising and preventative rules that are actually observed; the logic of fair insurance contracts concluded ex ante and paying out in times of economic shock, big european unemployment insurance or banking union; the logic of crisis management by strong institutions; and, last but not least, the logic of democracy.
for the political sustainability of the common currency, it will be essential that rules, insurance contracts and strong crisis management capabilities strengthen democracy at the european and national level, rather than weaken it.
iran abides by its nuclear-related commitments, as has been confirmed 11 times by the international atomic energy agency (iaea), the last time was just a few weeks ago.
and it is to this agreement that the international atomic energy agency attributes the fact that there is "no credible evidence" of an iranian nuclear weapons programme after 2009. that is why the american decision is so difficult to understand.
reforms to its energy and public procurement markets also helped to eliminate major sources of corruption.
it has also helped ukraine to improve its public finance management, to clean up its banking sector and to improve its business environment, for example, by automating vat returns and reducing red tape.
the imf calls for energy prices to be left entirely to market forces.
the usa has unilaterally pulled out of the paris climate agreement and the iran nuclear deal.
of course, there’s climate policy – by definition a cross-border issue.
when it comes to new priorities, climate policy and climate policy is a case in point.
the current eu target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40 % by 2030 predates the paris climate agreement.
not if we’re to play our part in keeping global warming below two degrees.
i am proposing a 55 % reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030.
(applause) not only to meet our obligations, but also because a competitive and forward-looking europe is, by definition, a sustainable europe.
together with countries like france, the netherlands wants to lead the way on this new climate ambition, and to work with you to achieve it.
you mentioned climate change as the obvious example of that, and i very much agree with that and i can only applaud the proposal you made on further reducing co2 emissions to 55% in the european union.
this is a really good way forward because climate change is a threat to humanity and we need to act.
we have to be more responsible, more ecological, more social, more effective, and we need a common asylum system in order to be better in all these questions of refugees and migrants.
it must come, to a large extent, from new own resources and, in particular, environmental taxes and a digital tax.
the european development fund, the main financial instrument for development cooperation with the acp states, is also limited to 2020. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the implementation of the union's policy on the environment, in particular through the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the implementation of the union's policy on the environment.
i am very pleased that we are discussing the own-initiative report on climate diplomacy from the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on the environment in the plenary today.
it is time for the european parliament to include climate diplomacy on its external agenda.
but if the eu is to make a credible international commitment to the paris agreement climate goals, it must first do its own homework.
european climate policy must be ambitious, and it must also be clearly based on its own commitments and promises and play a significant part in helping less able countries to implement international climate standards.
to enable the eu to take a leading role in the international implementation of the paris agreement climate goals, we must first strengthen the european external action service in the field of climate diplomacy in terms of staff and finances.
against this background, i call on the european commission to follow up the calls made in the report and to strengthen eu climate diplomacy in a fiscal and sustainable way, to actively and intensively involve it in future legislative initiatives.
the european parliament must also firmly establish climate diplomacy on its foreign policy agenda.
given the cross-competency nature of the issue, parliament's approach to climate diplomacy must also involve other policy areas.
this would be a direct approach and the application of the 2030 development goals, the sustainable development goals, which can and must be well linked here.
given that climate change and its consequences are not just a political issue, i am particularly pleased that pope francis's encyclical laudato si', which also makes a strong reference to the issue, has been included as a reference point in the report.
the european parliament, through its parliamentary networks, its delegations in partner countries and in the framework of delegation visits, must further advance its climate policy agenda and, in its diplomatic efforts, include the climate goals as part of the sustainable development goals as an integral part of bilateral and unilateral dialogues.
the european commission and the european external action service should develop a strategy for eu climate diplomacy in close cooperation with the european parliament and the member states.
the european parliament will be asked to identify in its reports the successes and gaps in the eu's climate diplomacy efforts and to make proposals for future directions.
regional level is becoming increasingly important for successful climate policy, alongside international summits such as the g7 and g20.
cities and regions, from local actors to town halls, are often the key actors in implementing climate policy demands and the sustainable agenda.
they should therefore be integrated into and taken into account in eu climate diplomacy policies, even as the eu travels around the world.
climate change is a global challenge, and it can only be tackled by global cooperation.
the eu is, of course, a pioneer in climate action and has done a lot of good work.
but europe alone cannot protect the climate.
as mr lietz has already said, we want eu policy on climate change to be coherent, that is to say, to be mainstreamed into all other policy areas, above all, of course, into trade policy, development policy and security policy.
we had this big conference recently on the relationship between climate change and security policy.
there is an example of strategic partnerships, commissioner: we have been cooperating with china for many years on an emissions trading system - this is certainly a success story - and i would also say that we are cooperating with other countries on specific issues, particularly on the phase-out of fossil fuels, the development of renewable energy and other policies we need to protect the climate.
we need a credible climate policy in our country.
we believe that the eu should raise its climate target for 2030. i also have a question for commissioner arias cañete: is it possible that we can increase the 40% co2 reduction target already agreed before katowice in the light of the legislation we have already adopted?
there was a commission conference on climate diplomacy, climate and security, and i would like to give an example of where we ourselves, as a parliament, had contacts, for example, with states and with representatives of iran, which is also having difficulties in international negotiations.
but on the question of climate, on the question of environmental damage, on the question of droughts, there are great demands, and they are also directed at the european union.
that means climate diplomacy is also a starting point for diplomatic talks, even with states that are having difficulties here.
and here europe is showing leadership, namely in the situation where we are not only engaging in diplomacy with the white house, but also with campaigns of 'we are still in' or campaigns of governors who are committed to the implementation of the paris climate agreement, a best practice, as they say, of the european union and not only of the european delegation, which is involved at all levels, but also of the european parliament.
we have an office of the european parliament there, and this cooperation is going very well, particularly on climate protection.
the european union must present the strategy on the sustainable development goals in new york in 2019. and this is where we really need to show that the climate issue is of paramount importance.
i would like to conclude with the point that has been made, namely how we can also achieve technologies also in the area of sustainable development goals an important point, a goal , energy supply and decarbonisation especially also in european neighbourhood.
this is about using renewable energy, from large projects to private households.
i find that we have a great deal of consensus here in the plenary that climate action is a very important task, a global task.
it is all the more sad that we have climate deniers and climate sceptics here in the european parliament who still deny that climate protection exists.
i think we really need to pay more attention to the issue of climate refugees.
in this context, we need to pay much more attention to our neighbour, africa, and i can only repeat that our trade policy, our development policy, must be geared to sustainable development in africa and that we must make some things right.
mr arias cañete, i think it is good news that we are filling our trade agreements with elements of the paris agreement, because it would somehow no longer be appropriate for us to engage in free trade and leave out the sustainable elements of the climate change agreement.
the positions on the paris agreement on climate change and the implementation of the un sustainable development goals of the 2030 agenda are equally strong and clear, and this, mr preda, certainly includes the commitments for the people most affected by climate change.
these challenges include armed conflicts in europe's neighbourhood with no prospect of resolution, a lack of prosecution of those responsible for war crimes and human rights violations, global migration flows, of which only a fraction reach europe, and the international failure to effectively limit global warming.
the european parliament also called for the eu to be given a role in the fight against climate change, and called for the eu to be involved in the fight against climate change.
at the sofia meeting, we agreed to provide additional means of connectivity, 11 transport projects for the digital programme of the balkans, for energy connectivity, for young people through erasmus+.
we are deeply convinced that our work has laid the foundation for a good and sustainable solution.
it is difficult for me to list them all, but i would like to mention the social pillar, the energy union, the banking union, the digital single market, where we have been extremely successful, and the preparation for the european elections in 2019. we also adopted the first industrial programme of the european union for military capabilities.
i would like to thank you once again and wish you to continue the same cooperation with our colleagues from austria, because the foreign policy environment for europe is dynamic and complex.
that's where the migration pressure to europe is coming from, which is why at the council last week we discussed the financial opportunities for africa and sustainable investment in partnership with those countries.
the same applies to the governance of the energy union.
energy governance has been raised and the defence union has been strengthened under your presidency.
i hope that, as you leave the presidency, you can take with you the spirit of biodiversity – many colleagues have said how important that is – because bulgaria is also so rich in biodiversity and natural beauty.
so we're doing a lot of work to protect the environment, we've created a new anti-corruption body, with a new law, with huge powers, with huge opportunities, and i really hope this issue is off the agenda.
only by working together in fair trade with africa, while also supporting european investment there, can we ensure that there is sustainable development and prospects for young people there too.
i would like to see the five asylum legislative proposals, which have also been pushed forward by the european parliament with admirable energy, adopted by july.
if you come back to the place where we need you, we will also rely on your energy in this austrian presidency.
if we do not arrive at bon port at the right time, we will lose 100 000 projects in the fields of energy, health and social inclusion.
we were lucky, because the last six years, the global economic policy environment has been relatively stable.
the vote will take place on thursday 5 july 2018. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the definition of smes by mr pieper, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000050/2018 - b8-0031/2018) (2018/2545 ((rsp)).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not affected by the introduction of new technologies.
the vote will take place on wednesday 4 july 2018. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the joint debate on the recommendation by lászló tőkés, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the comprehensive and enhanced partnership agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of armenia, of the other part (12543/2017 - c8-0422/2017 - 2017/0238 ((nle)) (a8-0177/2018) and the report by lászló tőkés, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the comprehensive and enhanced partnership agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of armenia, of the other part (2017/2269 (a8-0179/2018)).
just a few examples, from the small and medium enterprises to helping improving the business environment or investing in energy efficiency, and the list could continue.
this division has put polish society outside the first wave of european integration, but also outside the sustainable development.
have not google and facebook, for example, become essential facilities today, much like the transmission infrastructure in the energy sector?
one such strategic objective is the european energy transition, which requires combining price competitiveness with geopolitical realism.
europe should create the world's largest clean-tech fund and put more emphasis on pro-market mechanisms to make the energy transition more cost-effective for european companies and citizens.
after all, competitive energy prices are crucial to the competitiveness of national economies.
the path taken by the european union towards a low-carbon, and perhaps even a zero-carbon, economy is certainly the right one.
it's the way to a cleaner environment and better health for our citizens.
nevertheless, poland has made a huge effort, reducing co2 emissions by up to 30% in accordance with the kyoto protocol, against our commitment of 5%.
poland is ready and willing to participate in the european energy transition.
if we really want to reduce co2 emissions in our economy, we have to take a big step forward here.
in our proposals for the next long-term budget, poland will continue to receive the most cohesion funding, even though the total amount will be somewhat reduced, to eur 72.7 billion, which works out at eur 270 per person per year – more than double the eu average of eur 120. that investment will be focused in areas where there is the biggest potential for poland, whether it be innovation, small and medium-sized businesses or renewable energies.
we will see this again in december, when katowice hosts the united nations climate conference – cop24 as it is known.
it is more important than ever for europe to lead from the front in the fight against climate change.
we are doing that by focusing on green and sustainable investment.
through our capital markets union and sustainable financial action plan we want to unlock a systemic change in investment culture so that sustainability comes first.
through this leadership and climate diplomacy, poland is helping to send a message that the paris agreement is here to stay, and that europe is here to lead.
katowice is itself an example of that: it is a region historically reliant on coal and heavy industry, which is turning itself into a leader in innovation, sustainable investment and new technologies.
on a lot of issues you rightly raised questions where we can fully agree – the future of europe; questions on industrial politics, on the future of cohesion, talking about cultural diversity, security politics, energy security – and rightly so.
you could actually bring something to that, namely the idea that the transition for climate protection also needs to be fair, that social rights need to be protected as well.
then you could really be a forerunner on climate change, aiming to protect all of our planet, in katowice and beyond.
today, when the country is experiencing a natural phase of political transition, the angolan executive remains committed to deepening the democratic process and improving the conditions that allow an environment favourable to diversity of opinion, freedom of expression and, in general, respect for the fundamental rights of citizens.
in recent years, a great effort has been made to rebuild the country, with considerable resources invested in infrastructure and social works, but insufficient to meet the needs of businesses and the population in terms of energy, water, schools and hospitals, for example.
ladies and gentlemen, in the framework of moralizing society, creating a better business environment and paying more attention to private foreign investment, we have carried out a real crusade against corruption and impunity throughout society, with a focus on the so-called 'white collar crimes', whose positive results we ensure that we will soon begin to feel and benefit from.
ladies and gentlemen, with a view to solving the main social problems of citizens, such as access to drinking water, electricity, solid waste collection and treatment, public transport, schooling, primary health care and others, which is only possible in the framework of a government that is increasingly closer to the citizen, through bodies elected by him, the first municipal elections are being prepared for 2020, to be held gradually, in order to gradually endow the various municipalities with financial, patrimonial and administrative autonomy.
moreover, the government believes that the environment remains positive, that interest rates remain low and that it can successfully implement measures in the sector of pension cuts - unfortunately - and taxation, all at a time when elections are coming up again.
so i would propose we enlarge the title and talk about ‘forest fires in europe and consequences of climate change’.
there are those in social work, in working with refugees, in cultural work, in supporting the elderly, or even in working on the climate crisis, and many more.
we had many conversations with political and civil society actors, and two things struck me in particular: firstly, that all the interlocutors praised the eu's assistance to date as necessary and effective in ending the previously violent inter-group conflict in northern ireland, but secondly, that they all assured us that the peace and reconciliation process in northern ireland is not yet sustainable enough and is still fragile.
we decided that we cannot talk anymore about the economy without talking about the environment.
we cannot talk anymore about the environment without talking about the social dimension.
we are suggesting for the new programme for this european union to strive towards the united nations sustainable development goals, because we think this is the correct compass for the future.
what about developing a master plan for safe and sustainable energy?
we should really abandon the dogma of fiscal consultation for its own sake and instead focus on sustainable investments that soften the effects of economic shocks and prevent their escalation and proliferation.
to have a sustainable economy that provides good jobs, we also need to finally start the social ecological transformation of our economy.
local initiatives, such as on the island of tinos on recycling and the energy social enterprise in karditsa, are very important trailblazers for the future economy.
it’s very good to have local initiatives, but we also need to have a european plan for social-ecological transition.
already, more than one million jobs exist in the renewable sector, so leading the way as regards the climate will also pay off in terms of jobs.
greece has been hit hard by climate change.
europe needs to get its act together finally to combat climate change.
it poses serious risks to the environment and it harms the climate that we all depend on.
this is not a surprise for my colleagues in the committee, but i am really disappointed that parliament again failed to rebalance the research funds under euratom in favour of challenges, especially around nuclear waste, which we face in many of our member states.
after today’s debate i’m encouraged that all eu institutions share the common objective of ensuring a fair and thriving copyright environment in europe.
this summer, at the eu-china summit, we agreed a very substantial and ambitious statement on climate change, for instance.
we have agreed to step up our cooperation to reduce emissions and implement the paris agreement.
as you know, whenever we europeans bring new investment to africa we always bear in mind the sustainable development goals.
our approach is not the same, but if we want to promote sustainable development and sustainable security in africa, engagement with china is key to achieving results on the ground.
we believe that big infrastructure projects should, first of all, create opportunities and jobs in all the countries along the new silk road, and that these projects should be about sustainable development for local communities and not about crafting new spheres of influence.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
i am convinced that a strategic partnership with china is necessary, indeed the prerequisite for us to achieve the goals of the paris agreement on climate change, after president trump has cancelled the agreement out of stupidity and pure profit-making.
china and europe must now work together even more closely to curb climate-damaging greenhouse gas emissions, but also to stimulate international trade and international research.
there is also a shared responsibility in implementing the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and conserving natural resources.
china's commitment to this responsibility is reflected in the concept of ecological civilization recently adopted by the national people's congress.
and president xi jinping is also likely to be more reliable than the infantile climate denier trump.
it 's been said here before: we are doing very well on climate change, and we are doing very well on some peace initiatives.
and we need to commit china to international standards, including the sustainable development goals, which they signed up to.
but this has implications for the whole world - for the economy, the environment, peace, resource use, international coexistence and democratic constitution both internally and externally - and requires the political positions of all other partners.
these agreements - i am talking about trade agreements - which are often, and often wrongly, contested, help us to export to other parts of the world the high european standards in food safety, workers' rights, the environment and consumer rights.
we have proved this when we have consistently defended the paris climate agreement, because we europeans want to leave a cleaner planet for future generations.
i share the views of our energy commissioner on the co2 reduction targets for 2030. they are scientifically accurate and politically necessary.
(applause) we can of course ignore the climate challenge and look elsewhere.
what we want is to become more responsible and more independent, because only a strong and united europe can protect our citizens from internal and external threats, from terrorism to climate change.
as we have entered, we have all spoken together, an innovative digital binnenmarkt, a deepened economic and monetary union, a banking union, a capital market union, a fair binnenmarkt, an energy union with a future-oriented climate policy, a comprehensive migration agenda, a security union to be realised.
i call on the austrian presidency to take decisive steps to find a sustainable solution for a balanced migration reform.
(applause) i would like to thank the commission is today proposing a new alliance between africa and europe, an alliance for sustainable investment and jobs.
it is absurd that europe pays 80% of its energy import bill, which amounts to €300 billion a year, in us dollars, when only 2% of our energy imports come from the us.
mr weber, i do not think we have yet overcome the crisis: think of migration, which you mentioned; think of climate change; think of the deepening divides between north and south and between east and west.
they have a clear interest in safe energy.
on peace, we have major achievements to show, but we cannot rest on laurels and norwegian medals: there are new global challenges ahead that threaten our future and our security, and the biggest one of them is climate change.
we have seen this summer that climate change is happening: it’s happening now and it’s happening everywhere, from disastrous harvests to forest fires.
and the good news about climate change is that we know what to do; and the bad news about climate change is that we don’t do it.
it is now that we need a very quick change to renewables and phasing-out of the climate-killer: coal.
and if climate protection truly is a priority, then it should also be a priority in the multiannual budget.
agriculture is both a victim as well as a culprit in climate change, but farmers can also be part of the solution.
be assured that the austrian presidency’s energy and determination is fully focused on this.
if we say we want to make the transition to a more sustainable, to a new economic model, then we need to be able to read that in the european union semester.
the figures must tell the truth about the environmental consumption, about the social costs, about the employment effects.
sustainability of the pension system is crucial and has to be seen in the overall context of sustainable public finances.
but beyond the sustainability, we should also not forget about adequacy.
in conclusion, ensuring the long-term sustainability of public finances is particularly important, given the ageing population and the debt levels in the eu.
this means that it is not possible to build a sustainable pension security on the basis of the contribution system alone.
the financial products which the insurance industry had advertised as being stable have proved to be not particularly sustainable in retrospect.
this is reflected in a set of council conclusions adopted by the environment council on 25 june 2018. the council calls for a high-level political commitment to be maintained for an ambitious implementation of the whole circular economy action plan.
furthermore, reuse is closely interconnected with creating non-toxic material cycles where substances of concerning products and waste are soundly managed and reduced to a minimum.
a more consistent approach between chemical and waste rules is therefore required.
in this respect, the council welcomes, as you do in your draft resolution, the recently agreed provisions of the revised waste framework directive that complement existing reach (registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals) obligations for suppliers to inform their customers when articles contain substances of very high concern.
however, the detoxification of waste containing legacy substances might, in certain cases, require a differentiated approach that also adequately controls the risks for human health and the environment.
in this respect, the council encourages the commission’s action to develop a methodology addressing the management of waste containing substances of concern.
the council underlines that it is important for end-of-waste criteria to be implemented effectively and favours the establishment of guidelines that allow a clear distinction between waste and product status to avoid the need for operators to comply with two sets of rules.
efforts to harmonise these criteria should focus firstly on the most important waste streams.
it addresses the whole value chain and creates synergies between economic and environmental goals.
the goal is very simple: to ensure that by 2030 all plastic packaging is reusable or recyclable; that more than half of eu plastics waste is recycled – today it’s only 30%; and that demand for recycled plastics in europe grows at least four-fold.
also, financial incentives are an important way to steer the policies towards a more sustainable future.
as you highlighted in your report, in the proposal for the next long-term budget, the commission foresees a member state contribution based on the amount of non-recycled plastics packaging waste.
such a contribution putting for the very first time at the eu level the price of the negative externality of not recycling will help implement the waste package and the plastics strategy.
the plastics strategy will also help deliver the eu’s energy union vision for low-carbon energy-efficient economy.
in terms of co2 savings, recycling only half of all plastic waste generated in the eu each year would be equivalent to taking off the roads more than 13 million cars.
besides, the plastics strategy also features action to reduce pollution from microplastics, the legislative proposal on port reception facilities to tackle sea-based marine litter and the preparation of new labelling rules to ensure that consumers get clear information about biodegradable and compostable plastics.
regarding the second question – the oral question submitted by the parliament in relation to the interface between chemical products and waste legislation – we very much appreciate the parliament’s interest in this area.
we published guidelines to promote a more coherent approach to waste classification.
we launched a study to develop a specific decision-making methodology to support the decision on the recyclability of waste containing substances of concern.
secondly, the study of member states’ practices as regards implementation and verification of end-of-waste provisions.
on batteries, we are going to monitor the coherence of different legislative instruments to ensure a smooth functioning of the internal market for batteries, waste batteries and materials coming from recycled batteries.
also, following the recent adoption of the amendments to the waste framework directive, the commission and the european chemicals agency are looking into establishing a database for the future collection of information on substances of very high concern in articles.
such a database would also help to promote non-toxic material recycling and improve the risk management of chemicals during repair and other forms of refuse- and waste-recovering process.
with this summary, i trust that you will agree with me that a significant amount of work is already under way to address the interface between chemical products and waste legislation.
the whole row where the council presidency is sitting would be full, because there are an unimaginable number of things that have not been implemented in europe in the waste sector.
mr demesmaeker referred to the figures: 140 million tonnes of plastic waste are floating in the oceans - that is the equivalent of half the size of europe.
and i think we also have to be aware that 70 percent of this waste is also sitting in the deep waters and it's not going to be easy to get out of there.
i'm working on the ship-waste policy and seeing what you can do to actually bring all the garbage ashore.
first, we need to make the public aware of how far we've come to a point where plastic waste threatens to overwhelm us, so that plastic is even showing up in our food.
and thirdly, we need to create a reliable framework for this, which will allow citizens to actually move around sensibly without so much plastic waste.
it's time for the idea that plastic waste must go away - not be thrown away, but not created in the first place.
and that's why i want to encourage as many of you as possible to join us on global cleanup day on september 15th, where we commit to a global commitment to not let plastic waste dominate our future.
the problem of plastic waste is a problem that affects many areas, such as the pollution of the oceans.
tomorrow we will vote on the so-called harbour catchment facilities in the environment committee.
the aim is not to dump the waste from ships at sea but to dump it in ports.
and then, of course, there's a big problem of microplastics that end up in the environment, for example, from car tires or from washing machine abrasion.
this policy was reinforced with the 2011 commission action plan, and last year a new and comprehensive eu action plan on antimicrobial resistance was adopted, pursuing the ‘one health’ approach recognising that human health, animal health and the environment are interconnected.
it supports the eu and its member states in delivering innovative, effective and sustainable responses to antimicrobial resistance.
meetings of the one health network government experts from human health, animal health and the environmental sector, as well as eu scientific agencies, are organised regularly and i am very glad that your report will be presented at the network meeting next month.
do you want the future of mobility to be safe, sustainable and equitable?
another step is to create an infrastructure that includes nationwide charging stations for sustainable fuels.
we also have a problem with the evaluation of the substances, which must be stated quite clearly, namely that the environmental effects and the effects on beneficial insects are not sufficiently examined in the whole procedure.
the procedure has been shown to be wrong, that we actually find 20 years later that the environmental impact of neonicotinoids is significantly greater than previously thought.
the next item is the debate on the report by soledad cabezón ruiz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the assessment of health technologies and amending directive 2011/24/eu (com ((2018) 0051 - c8-0024/2018 - 2018/0018 ((cod)) (a8-0289/2018).
i think it's a waste of resources, it increases costs.
it is therefore very, very good that the environment committee has adopted the report by a large majority.
we want to improve the quality and efficiency of healthcare interventions and improve the sustainability of healthcare systems.
how we should adapt to this evolving environment was a central issue for the leaders in salzburg.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
we can no longer accept business models that ignore human rights and environmental protection.
the chevron/texaco case against ecuador continues to demonstrate that only concrete, transparent and binding rules and contracts can guarantee these sustainable objectives.
from this debate i conclude that we all share a common interest in using the eu’s diplomatic power and eu instruments to their full potential in support of ensuring the sustainability of the united nations relief and works agency (unrwa) core services to vulnerable palestinian refugees.
the commission is not let me make one thing clear right at the beginning: the question today is not yes or no on climate change.
all the proposals we will be voting on tomorrow will help us achieve our climate goals.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in line with the community's energy policy.
the commission has calculated what the environment committee's proposal would mean.
i am firmly convinced that we can set ambitious targets, protect the climate and at the same time strengthen the competitiveness of our industry and thus safeguard jobs in europe.
it would be good for the climate, it would be good for the consumer, and it would be good for the workers.
you just said last week that you're not going to align the european union's overall climate target with the paris agreement as intended - so three years after paris.
the eu commission has failed to adapt its own climate targets and is heading to katowice without an adapted target.
their own experts have told them that a co2 reduction target for the automotive industry must be at least 60% by 2030. they have proposed 30% by 2030. so far, the recommendations of science and the proposals of the commission have never diverged in the time that i have been here advising on climate policy.
i should also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs dalli, who has really achieved something good with the compromise we have found in the committee on the environment.
we have heard from the unions that they know very well that our industry will be dependent on international markets unless we are ambitious and committed to innovation, climate protection and environmentally friendly cars.
panic over climate change, that's what you're doing, and that's what's going to end up taking over the european markets by chinese manufacturers.
i was at the climate conference in bonn last year, and i systematically asked all the partners we talked to, is there any debate in the other countries -- the united states, let's leave it out -- but in japan, russia, south america, brazil?
and then, when we talk about the automotive industry, we talk about climate technologies that are available.
give it a go on innovation and give it a go on climate change.
i would also like to ask that we look again at the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment on malus.
(the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question no 3 by mr pimenta subject: the amendments tabled by your group are designed to weaken the already very weak reduction target for conventional engines for 2030 by means of bonus and fee systems and credit systems, so that in our estimation conventional engines could be worse and more harmful to the climate in 2030 than they are today in 2018, on the basis of your proposals.
they call that giving gas in climate protection?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we should vote for a 45 percent reduction in co2 emissions from cars by 2030 and for a mandatory electricity quota with penalties.
it is about stopping the ongoing warming of the climate that threatens the existence of all mankind.
if we do nothing about global warming, it will soon cost millions of lives.
it is time for the eu to take a serious stance on climate action and stop being a mere tool of industry.
the transport sector must become climate neutral by mid-century to meet the paris agreement targets.
it will have different types of propulsion, it will be much more environmentally and climate friendly, and it will also provide new technologies and new jobs.
because we're always talking about electric cars, i'm sure that as an intermediate step, we'll also take hybrid and plug-in cars, and maybe in a shorter period of time, we'll also use car gas and natural gas, which can reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
we social democrats are of course concerned about climate protection, but also about jobs.
the paris climate targets have been signed by all countries, and now all countries have to implement them in principle.
we know that co2 emissions from transport have been rising steadily, even though we have had reduction targets.
we have an alternative energy infrastructure under construction.
basically, it should be said that since we have realized that even the targets we have are useless, if more and more cars are coming, it would be best to have a strict emissions trading for the whole sector.
the commission proposal, at 30%, sets the course for greater environmental protection.
disposal of waste question mark rare earths question mark obviously, these are words that are foreign to many in alde, the s&d and the greens, following the motto: why the market economy, if it can go through the wall with its head?
responsible environmental policy means thinking from the end, analysing the consequences of legislation carefully.
i am very much in favour of setting realistic targets and setting what emissions are achievable for cars and small commercial vehicles.
europeans also expect us to tackle transformational challenges that are too big for a single member state, such as european defence, climate change and digital transformation.
in that spirit, we have proposed to increase the funding for the connecting europe facility by 24%, to focus on transport, digital and energy infrastructure.
we are dreaming and we are working for a europe that is sustainable: sustainable in its economy, in its environment and its social structures, where everybody – every woman and every man – regardless of their income can count on the support of their public institutions and where everybody can breathe fresh and clean air.
that is to say, it is the completely wrong way to achieve anything sensible, sustainable here.
given this changing and ever more challenging operational environment, the reform of eurojust was necessary.
it is time for europe to stand up for a human rights-based and sustainable refugee policy.
we also underlined the role that public procurement can play in responding to european competitiveness and to societal environmental innovation challenges because we know that, for example, it can encourage energy and resource efficiency investment.
the antibiotics used are not only contaminating poultry meat, but also the excrement and slaughter waste, our drinking water and our soil.
allow me to first talk about the katowice climate conference, before turning to the cop14 on biological diversity.
as you are aware, only recently the intergovernmental panel on climate change special report on the impacts of global warming of 1.0° above pre-industrial levels constituted yet another scientific finding on the negative impacts of climate change.
we have more than two decades of experience in designing and implementing climate policies to drive the transition to a low-greenhouse-gas-emissions economy, and this transition is happening while boosting growth and jobs, thanks to the development of clean technologies and low or zero carbon energy.
in the recent periods, we have reached political agreement on the key legislative pillars of the 2030 climate and energy framework, including the emissions trading system, the effort sharing regulation, land use and forestry and also on targets for renewables, energy efficiency and governance of the energy union.
we are committed to continuing our efforts on climate action and agree with this house that a clear and comprehensive paris rulebook is absolutely vital.
the talanoa dialogue taking place throughout 2018 is the first opportunity since paris to look at our collective efforts to limit global warming and what we have done concretely in terms of delivering on the commitments made as well as opportunities to enhance ambition.
the european union and its member states are committed to continuing scaling up the mobilisation of international climate finance.
the observed progression of eu climate finance over the past years is in line with the 2016 usd 100 billion roadmap.
our public climate-specific finance has almost doubled in nominal terms over the last three years.
the european union and its member states are collectively the largest provider of climate finance to developing countries, amounting to above eur 20 billion in 2017. this figure includes contributions from public budgets and development finance institutions.
the eu and its member states are the largest contributors to the green climate fund, with a total of usd 4.7 billion committed, accounting for almost half of the total pledges made during the initial resource mobilisation.
we have strongly supported the 7th replenishment of the global environment facility with a commitment of about eur 1.9 billion, accounting for over 50% of the total contributions.
let me also stress the importance of making global finance flows consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas emissions and climate-resilient development.
climate finance is a contribution towards this necessary global transition.
the european union is taking steps with its action plan in financing sustainable growth.
the council agrees with the parliament that the protection of global biodiversity is an essential challenge.
like the parliament, the council is greatly concerned that the natural resource-base and ecosystem services on which humanity depends are at a high risk and that pressures driving biodiversity loss continue to increase.
increased efforts are thus necessary from all parties and stakeholders to fully implement the strategic plan for biodiversity 2011 to 2020 and achieve its aichi biodiversity targets.
the council shares the parliament’s view that we need an ambitious follow-up to the strategic plan for biodiversity beyond 2020. it stresses that this should be an overarching biodiversity framework that places biodiversity and ecosystem services high on political agendas, strengthening the implementation of the biodiversity convention and its protocols and of other biodiversity related multilateral environmental agreements and relevant sdgs.
the new framework should pave the way towards the achievement of the 2050 vision on biodiversity.
another important element of the post-2020 global biodiversity framework is resource mobilisation.
as regards financial support for biodiversity, the council believes that the global environment facility trust fund has proven to be an important financing instrument for addressing drivers of environmental degradation and biodiversity loss and has a strong track record in delivering overall good project performance.
the national biodiversity strategies and action plans are and will remain the main instruments for implementing the convention on biodiversity and its protocols.
additional measures to complement and support the national strategies and action plans will be discussed on cop14 in egypt, in the context of the post-2020 global biodiversity framework.
– mr president, honourable members, thank you for the opportunity to have this important debate as we look ahead to the preparations for the upcoming cop24 (conference of the parties) – the united nations framework convention on climate change in katowice in poland in december.
the consequences of climate change are not a problem for others or for the future; impacts are already being felt – devastation by floods, wildfires, heatwaves and hurricanes, including on our continent.
two weeks ago, the special report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change on the impacts of global warming of 1.5°c above pre-industrial levels was released, and the report highlights the extreme urgency of climate action and the need to do more to reduce emissions in all sectors in order to limit global warming.
secondly, at the political phase of the talanoa dialogue, ministers will reflect on the adequacy of the current contributions and of international cooperation for climate action, and the insights from the recent ipcc 1.5° special report should be an important element in the discussion.
we are looking forward to the high-level ministerial dialogue on climate finance and the stocktake on pre-2020 implementation and ambition to showcase progress and identify opportunities for action.
in 2017, the commission and the european investment bank contributed approximately eur 5.5 billion of climate finance to developing countries.
– mr president, i would like to thank, first and foremost, parliament for its strong support for biodiversity policy.
although less visible in the media, the global biodiversity crisis has social and economic implications known to be as serious as the climate crisis.
let me mention, in particular, the action plan for nature, people and the economy, to accelerate implementation of the eu nature directives; the eu initiative to tackle the decline of pollinators; two guidance documents on integrating ecosystem services in decision-making and on eu-level green infrastructure, to be adopted soon; and ongoing work on a second update of the union list of invasive alien species of union concern.
i would also highlight the important work we are doing to engage the private sector in this issue under the eu business @ biodiversity platform and through the natural capital financing facility, which has strong synergies with the concrete proposals adopted by this commission under the sustainable finance package.
building on these instruments, coupled with efforts to tackle climate change, including through transforming development aid policy and increased investments in africa, should in future help to leverage more effectively the resources and commitments needed to address global biodiversity decline.
for the period after 2020, the commission has proposed an enhanced life programme that will notably include a stronger focus on nature and biodiversity.
most importantly, given the crucial importance of sound agricultural policy to reverse biodiversity decline, as you know, the commission has adopted a new legislative proposal on the common agricultural policy (cap) post-2020, which includes higher climate and environmental ambitions.
with regard to the post-2020 global biodiversity framework, the commission concurs with the council’s conclusions of 9 october that the framework should include targets that are, as far as possible, measurable and time-bound, an adequate monitoring framework and voluntary commitments from parties, citizens and the private sector, accompanied by a mechanism to review their implementation and to ensure accountability.
these elements should significantly strengthen global biodiversity policy.
biodiversity and climate change are interrelated.
we take this opportunity to reiterate and reinforce the importance of protecting our biodiversity worldwide.
we therefore believe, together with our colleagues in the other groups, that it is essential to step up efforts and to draw up an ambitious strategic plan for the period after 2020 with a view to 2050. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
in the resolution we address six points, two of which i would like to mention explicitly: our call for a robust international framework for the period after 2020 we are in favour of performance indicators, which is also a key point for the effectiveness of the 2050 strategic plan and also in particular the highlighting of the positive contributions of forestry and agriculture to biodiversity.
we have just heard something about climate change and the mountain region.
i want to get into the wet element and talk about what climate change means for the oceans.
every second breath comes from the ocean, because that's where oxygen is produced, and it can be produced less as climate change continues.
so again, the oceans -- healthy oceans -- have an important climate function.
this in turn affects the gulf stream, which also makes our climate.
and of course, this also affects the biodiversity that exists in each zone: on fisheries and many other things.
but of course, as mrs van brempt has already mentioned, there are climate refugees, and this has a major impact on this.
so, the ocean is very important to people, and that's why we should be careful to address climate change.
the eu has set itself ambitious climate targets in recent years.
the aim is to reduce co2 emissions by 45% by 2030 - in just 11 years.
in recent years, the eu has even slightly increased its emissions.
while we made at least continuous progress between 1990 and 2009, we have stagnated over the last decade and never recovered the good figure of 2009. the unthinking abandonment of nuclear energy is a key factor.
the security of supply of an industrial nation cannot be guaranteed by wind and solar energy, which is why we must resort to brown coal.
if you dream of an electric car but do not want to use nuclear power or lignite, but instead cut down forests that have grown over centuries for windmills, so as to destroy the habitat of animals in a sustainable way, you have to ask yourself how well-thought-out your plans are.
we need a clear signal that the climate change process will continue no matter what president trump decides.
we can raise the european climate target by implementing the legislation we have already adopted, but not to 55, but to less.
i have to say, madam president, this year's climate conference in poland is a test for the world community.
the report of the world climate council is a big deal.
it is a climate conference again on our continent, in the european union, and we should lead by example.
i hope that the council of environment ministers and other decision-makers can decide by katowice to increase our 40% reduction target.
it is true that europe cannot protect the climate alone; we need others in the world.
we shall have to talk about border duties in favour of climate protection.
the commission is proposing to increase the number of programmes for smes, young people, climate change and competitiveness beyond the commission's proposal.
only if the 0.7% funding target is also achieved by the eu in the coming years, as is already the case in many member states, will the 2030 agenda with its sustainability targets have any chance at all.
unfortunately, the eu has so far lacked the will to implement the objectives of the sustainable development agenda in development cooperation through a clear strategic budgetary prioritisation.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
we want to restore the budgets cut by the efsi, we want to achieve the eu's sustainable development goals and we are in favour of a clear distinction between research funds for civilian and military purposes.
the areas of security, migration, energy policy, but also innovation and research, deserve to be generously and adequately funded.
the vote will take place on wednesday 24 october 2018. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report of mr michel dantin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the quality of water intended for human consumption (com (((2017) 0753 c8-0019/2018 2017/0332 ((cod)) (a8-0288/2018).
i think that michel dantin and the committee on the environment have produced a good report.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's energy policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
– mr president, i very much welcome the messages from the parliament confirming that everybody agrees that the eu should respond and act in the interest of our citizens and that everybody supports the sustainable development goal 6 and better access to water.
the vote will take place on tuesday 23 october 2018. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by frédérique ries, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment (com ((2018) 0340 c8-0218/2018 2018/0172 ((cod)) (a8-0317/2018).
we've heard how many hundreds of thousands of tons of waste are in the oceans.
i would like to come to a point which is very important to me because i have been reporting on waste for some 25 years in this house and i have had the stupid habit of looking over the last few years at what is actually happening with these reports.
it is therefore good that the european commission has put forward the proposal and it is also good that the environment committee has tightened it up a bit.
according to science, we have eight million tons of plastic pollution in the ocean every year, five kilos of which comes from balloons from the european union.
plastic waste comes largely from africa and asia.
up to ten rivers are involved in the process, which is the one that is dumping the plastic waste into the oceans.
this is also a matter of responsibility for the suppliers who produce this waste and who would then also have to be involved in preventing this waste accordingly.
the aim is to create market and innovation opportunities for alternative products that are multi-use, but also products made from other materials with less environmental impact.
the commission is committed to leading by example in the creation of a more secular and sustainable plastics economy.
to conclude, let me stress that building a strong european economy and a resilient monetary union can only be sustainable through support and investment in our people.
responding to crises with contextual measures is not an effective way to do this, and in this regard we need sustainable solutions.
the eu stands for sustainable free trade and against short-term protectionism.
do we really think that going back to nation states on their own is going to solve the problem of climate change, is going to find solutions for migration issues, is going to give us the force to negotiate fair trade agreements with big partners in the world like the united states and china?
is it not a good choice to interdict single plastic use, stuff that is made in a few seconds and stays in our environment for hundreds of years, and for which we have perfectly feasible alternatives that do not pollute our natural environment?
yes, pedro sánchez has succeeded in putting sustainability, the un's sustainable development goals, on the agenda.
the time will come when we will have to complain that the treaty is not being used to bring about the capacity to act - the capacity to act that we need to solve today's problems - on migration, internal and external security, climate change and many other issues - for the betterment of our citizens.
these measures are designed in line with the one-health approach, recognising that human health, animal health and the environment are interconnected.
in the commission’s view the full alignment should have taken place in one of the two instruments.”
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the environmentally friendly railways are made expensive and the climate-damaging roads cheap by politics.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
the vignette is not only un-ecological, but also un-social.
transport is the only sector in europe where emissions have increased since 1990, by 28%!
and that's why we need to change mobility to stop climate change and so that our children and their children have a perspective of living on this planet as well.
this is the environmentally friendly railway, we can make it expensive, but the climate-damaging road must be cheap, also in the future.
the best performers are our students, but each of us knows someone in his or her own environment who is studying or training and who is dealing with a process that seems absurd and time-consuming.
so say: the interconnection of the energy sector with the mobility sector.
member states are also encouraged to give tax advantages to more climate-friendly fuels, such as electricity or green hydrogen, over diesel or petrol.
i am referring here, in a very brief way, to climate change, the increase in military conflicts, the increase in global migration, poverty and malnutrition affecting hundreds of millions of people.
that is why economic globalisation in the 21st century must also contribute to achieving the un's sustainable development goals.
here, ratification and compliance with the ilo core labour standard are minimum conditions and must contribute to achieving the sustainable development goals.
social, labour and environmental dumping must not be a means of gaining international competitive advantage.
that is why we social democrats insist that trade agreements include comprehensive and enforceable sustainability chapters.
we also need answers to the challenges of power politics and we must always also understand world trade as an instrument for enforcing sustainability.
that is important for us, as the commission, to enable this environment for european industry to thrive; not just the big ones – and we have big impressive industry in europe – but also all the smaller ones who are part and parcel of the creation of this europe that we live in, in which – at this point where we speak – more people than ever have a job.
the first item on the agenda is the joint debate on the report by mr miroslav poche, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2012/27/eu on energy efficiency (com ((2016) 0761 c8-0498/2016 2016/0376 cod)) (a80391/2017), the report by ms michèle rivasi and mr jakop dalunde, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the governance system of the energy union, amending directive 94/22/ec, council directive 98/70/ec, council directive 2009/31/ec, regulation (ec) no 663/2009, regulation (ec) no 715/2009, directive 2009/73/ec, directive 2009/73/ec, directive 2009/73/ec, directive 2009/77/ec on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources (a8075/eu) and council directive (eu) 2015/375/eu) and repealing directive 2013/386/eu (com (eu) no 52586) and commission directive (a86/eu) 2015/3657 (a) and council directive (a87/eu) 2015/38 (com (2016/eu) no 675/eu) and council directive (a86/eu) (a86/eu) (cod) and council directive (co (2016/27) 575/eu) (repealed by mr blanco, on the european parliament, on the proposal for a directive of the committee on the european parliament and the committee on energy union.
first of all, i would like to thank the commission: this clean energy package is really very well coordinated from energy conservation to the expansion of renewables to governance and also the references to emissions trading.
this has not always been the case in european legislation, particularly in energy legislation.
i think that parliament has, without exaggerating, made a more intensive energy transition in important areas.
the member states and regions have room to bring their very specific strengths to bear on energy production and also on energy saving.
this is how we can achieve our environmental and climate goals without displacing industry and without overburdening our cities and communities.
the left side -- red, green, yellow -- wanted 40 percent energy savings.
but climate change is also creative.
since 1990, the european social product has increased by 55%, and emissions have fallen by 25% in the same period, and we are happy to continue along this path in terms of environmental protection and jobs.
this package of legislation is a major step forward in the energy transition in the european union.
this energy package also helps research and development for efficient and better solutions in europe.
i think that the climate strategy must also correlate with a social strategy of the european union.
saving energy also means saving costs.
and with renewable energy, we will one day have paid for the system, and then the energy will be free.
we have set ourselves the task of creating the energy union during this election period.
this week we are voting on an important part of the energy package.
but let me also say why this vote is so important: we can only achieve the european energy transition together.
member states can now coordinate their energy and climate policies much more efficiently.
we have really made a breakthrough in this parliament in the european energy transition.
finally, let me express my particular satisfaction that the governance regulation addresses the problem of energy poverty in an eu legal act for the first time.
i think this is a very important signal that the european energy transition is not being carried out on the backs of households, which are already suffering from the high cost of electricity.
we had already set ourselves energy targets for 2020: 20% less energy consumption, more efficiency and more renewable energy.
i would like to focus on renewable energy in particular, because there is a lot to be done.
we have already discussed in the last plenary session that, for example, in transport, the infrastructure for renewable energy is on the right track, but is still far too little ambitious.
it is not just about burning down forests, but also about using waste materials.
we really must be able to use all the energy that is available locally.
blue energy has not been mentioned at all.
the sea also offers many things that can be economic in the future, such as wave energy, tidal energy, even energy that is extracted from salt and fresh water.
and then we need an infrastructure to actually get the renewable energy that we produce to consumers and producers.
imagine if we had a world where 100 percent of the energy came from renewable sources and we used that energy so efficiently that there were no conservation problems - for example, wind power or biomass - and there were no problems with the people living there, because we limited it to the areas where it could be used and where we used it very, very efficiently.
i'm also particularly pleased that we're doing half a percent more in efficiency than we are in renewable energy.
it is our common goal: maximum sustainable yield.
in this sense, i can only say that our common objective is to achieve maximum sustainable yield, to preserve jobs, but also to preserve the tourist attractiveness of these fishing ports on the adriatic.
we want a new yardstick for the success of coherent trade policies, namely their contribution to achieving the un's 2030 sustainability goals.
but we must also use our european budget for the ecological transformation.
we have to get away from the carbon industry, and we have to change the way we produce and the way we live.
that's why 30% for climate change projects.
we are feeling the effects of climate change, old allies are calling into question established alliances, britain is the first country to leave the european union, the depth of the cut will be felt in these days of intense negotiations as never before, and i would like to thank michel barnier very warmly for his work.
another example is the european commitment to global climate protection, which is ecologically, economically and socially imperative for the protection of the natural foundations of life and thus for us.
europe benefits from industrial and emerging countries producing less greenhouse gases together and our economies becoming greener as a whole.
this applies to the european monetary fund, it applies to the deepening of economic and monetary union, it applies to the fact that germany must take the lead in climate protection, and it also applies to the fact that we are making progress in social policy - for example, with the framework directive on safe working conditions - that the mandate is not blocked by the european people's party, but that we can make it clear to precarious workers where europe stands and that it is helping them.
i would like to stress that we must invest all our courage and energy to move europe forward - the sustainable, the solidarity-based, the just europe, where everyone has his or her chance and opportunity.
we want a europe that is at the forefront of climate action and protects our livelihoods.
for example, the climate crisis is one of the biggest challenges of our time, if not the biggest.
we are destroying the planet we live on with our eyes open, and the world climate council has just written that in our book of records.
one of these is that car manufacturers urgently need to reduce the co2 emissions of their fleet.
is this what germany's contribution to climate protection looks like?
because the climate cannot be saved by vague declarations of intent and glacier photos.
instead, the german government has simply buried the climate targets it set itself and is the brake on european climate policy.
germany is certainly not the only country in the eu with a climate reality problem.
the fact that germany is also constantly violating european environmental laws, such as clean water and clean air, underlines the problem.
climate change and renewable energy are also helping to achieve energy independence.
the european union is a global player in the fight against climate change.
mrs. merkel, you have been sworn in as climate chancellor.
it is about the minimum ecological standards.
german government policy has shaped energy and transport policy.
if europe is not to fall apart, but to become a model of success again, then economic and monetary policy must be designed in the sense of a professor and not planned in office, energy and transport policy must be conceived in a european way and not in large-city latte-macchiato kitchens, the christian family image must be brought to life instead of being fulfilled by quotas-gender professors, identity and christian cultural significance must be regained outside the borders instead of fantasizing about cultural destruction.
i personally believe that we will use more gas to shape climate change, especially in a country like germany, which will have no nuclear energy in a few years' time and which is therefore already making a considerable contribution to climate protection with its strongest pillar of energy supply, renewable energies.
but if we say, we can get out of nuclear power, we should get out of coal, we're going to build natural renewable energy, then we need some more, and that's going to be gas for a while.
now the last part, with climate protection.
we're on track to meet our climate goals, and we've set ourselves very ambitious targets for 2020. we're going to try to do as much as we can and really achieve our 2030 climate goals through a climate bill.
rules of the road are necessary, not only to protect investors and increase market integrity but also to provide legal clarity and certainty for a legitimate crypto-asset ecosystem.
trucks are responsible for 25% of co2 emissions from road transport, although they account for less than 5% of traffic.
in recent decades, the efficiency of the engines of these vehicles has not been significantly improved because research is expensive and manufacturers therefore wanted to save money at the expense of the environment.
despite the catastrophic effects of global warming, the industry-led groups in this house have repeatedly undermined the best proposals from the environment committee.
to those of you who feel that the polluting trucking industry must continue to be protected at the expense of the climate and public health, the car manufacturers have recently proven that they are not to be trusted, that they - to put it bluntly and clearly - lie and cheat with criminal energy, because they are only interested in making a profit.
it is now up to us to massively reduce co2 emissions in the trucking sector.
public opinion polls show that public awareness of the high risks associated with climate change has increased because we are all paying a high price for the irresponsible climate policies of the major industrial nations.
people all over the world are already suffering from the effects of global warming.
either the european union acts now and tries to reduce co2 emissions by all means, in all sectors, or it continues to be at the mercy of industry and will be rightly accused by future generations of being a corporate lackey in the blind obsession of growth.
the environment ministry said the commission's proposal was not ambitious enough.
the experts in the ministry of the environment also say that the european commission's proposal is ambitious.
that's why i'm a little concerned that the environmental committee has overshot its target.
i want us to end the process with a large majority in favor of the proposal so that something can be done about the climate.
the environmental committee is not there yet.
i think it is therefore time that we in the european union finally regulate co2 emissions.
it is not up to any citizen to explain that the emissions from heavy goods vehicles are not yet regulated.
i think we can all agree that all emissions are bad for the climate.
that is why we must try to reduce emissions as much as possible.
the best thing to do is to introduce emissions trading for trucks and buses.
i have to say, madam president, in the european parliament's environment committee we have considerably strengthened an already ambitious proposal from the european commission.
in turn, all this will increase the overall attractiveness of rail transport, to the benefit of passengers, industry, and our environment.
the vote will take place on thursday 15 november 2018. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by julie girling, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on persistent organic pollutants (recast) (com ((2018) 0144 c8-0124/2018 2018/0070 ((cod)) (a8-0336/2018).
i am surprised by this waste of resources.
the commission is not in vietnam, we are seeing an increase in arbitrary arrests and politically motivated sentences of human rights and environmental activists, lawyers and bloggers.
the return of the refugees to their place of origin remains the objective, but it must be voluntary, safe, sustainable and dignified.
it is critical that the conditions in rakhine state are conducive for a safe and sustainable return.
the government needs to ensure a safe and enabling environment for civil society, journalists and human rights defenders.
this is, from a danish perspective, not fair, and it is a challenge to the danish model of society, which is based on a shared sense of solidarity and on our ability to ensure a sustainable balance of rights and responsibilities.
the second issue where increased eu action is essential is the fight against climate change.
almost three years ago, paris, the city of lights, turned into the shining city on the hill as the world agreed to save the planet from climate breakdown.
two months earlier, at the un assembly in new york, i had the privilege to co-chair the very un meeting where we adopted the sustainable development goals.
on windy days, all of our electricity is produced by windmills, and we are well on the way to reaching our goal of net zero emissions by 2050. i was happy to learn earlier today that the commission has adopted the same vision of carbon neutrality for all of europe.
decades ago, a political decision on renewable energy was taken in denmark and it has proven to be a good deal for danish companies.
they were forced to innovate and now we all profit: businesses as well as the environment.
today, the eu has become the global voice of the climate and green transition.
in that time denmark has given the union so much, from its effective social model, its growth-friendly business environment and its well-functioning social dialogue to the richness of its culture.
we have proposed a new digital europe programme worth eur 9 billion to support europe’s digital transformation, and we will also ensure that 25% of the budget will support our climate and sustainable development targets.
all in all, of course, we have to ensure that the wto is also coherent with other international challenges, such as the global sustainability goals and the sdgs, and that these are also integrated.
the wto's sustainability clearly requires us to answer the question of how far we, as parliament and government, are able to contain and regulate global value creation processes and the actions of transnational corporations and financial groups in the interests of people and the environment.
that we really have roadmaps for globalisation that can fairly shape the interests of nations in terms of sustainable development.
global value chains, digital trade, environmental and societal challenges, to name a few, are areas where the wto needs to catch up.
but it is in our mutual interest to build an ambitious partnership on goods, services, digital, mobility, transport, public procurement, energy, internal security - obviously - for the stability of our continent, foreign policy with this country which will remain active in the un security council, defence and in many other areas.
if our national interest is to govern migration, and i believe it is of all of us to make it orderly, humane and sustainable, then the global compact is the most powerful tool we have to serve our national interests.
we all have an interest in investing in sustainable development in the regions that need it most, and we all have an interest in creating regular pathways for human mobility.
europe will not become the garden of eden, but we will preserve a livable environment for ourselves and our children.
the opinion of the committee on agriculture was drawn up by a man who denies man-made climate change.
we have to do more for the environment.
the committee on the environment has adopted a good opinion on this, which has helped the report to get on its feet, so to speak, and i am very pleased about that.
two weeks ago, the international conference on biodiversity in egypt was concluded.
the climate conference is still going on in poland.
these conferences address the pressing issues of our life on this planet, and then they discuss how we can prevent further extinction of plants and animals, how we can bring the world's climate back into balance.
we have the means, and i think the life programme is a really good programme - thank you, commissioner - where we can do more for the environment and the climate.
some 3.6 million workers in europe, particularly in warehouses, mining and freight transport, will be better protected against diesel emissions in the future.
but i'm more concerned with the interests of the environment and consumers.
– mr president, i have listened with great interest to the views expressed during this discussion and i am grateful for all the valuable insights and for the commitment in the house to addressing the transparency and sustainability of the european union risk assessment process in the food chain.
in any event, enhanced transparency will contribute to strengthening a climate of consumer trust, which is beneficial for stimulating innovation – and i would emphasise that.
the proposal also addresses the long—term sustainability of the risk assessment process, and that of efsa, in particular.
honourable members, i thank you once again for your active engagement on this issue and i look forward to working closely together towards a strengthened climate of consumer trust in the food chain, and to seeing how we can move forward, starting with our debates in the months to come, with the council, parliament and the commission together.
the fight against climate change is one of those major challenges.
and talking about the mmf that you have mentioned, i think the mff debate would be a perfect opportunity to send a very clear signal to the climate conference happening in katowice at this very moment, because nice words on climate only lead to action if you put some money behind that, and i believe that the katowice summit could really use some clear signals.
to put it quite clearly, the left group rejects the economic partnership agreement with japan precisely because we recognise the long-term importance of a strategic partnership as a common framework for a joint contribution to stability, peace and, above all, to the implementation of the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development over the next 11 years.
their functions, such as schools, waste management, hospitals, regional transport, are being liberalized, that is to say, they are to be privatized as far as possible.
our governments no longer have the right to pass the social and environmental laws they want.
just think of the possibilities of relaxing social laws, environmental laws.
if we look at the agreement that is on the table, it is a rules-based agreement that sets standards, that contains a commitment to environmental protection and that concerns the obligation to respect workers' rights.
the strategic partnership agreement aims for solutions on common challenges such as climate change, energy supply and threats to security.
free trade agreements can be a good lever to promote, for example, better workers' rights and environmental protection worldwide.
i expressly welcome the inclusion of the implementation of the 2015 paris agreement on climate change in a separate chapter of the treaty, thus going well beyond ceta.
i also criticise the fact that the jefta is not taking advantage of the possibility of a stricter climate and environmental protection policy.
this makes it difficult for national and local authorities to adopt new environmental or occupational safety and health rules, as these can be considered as 'non-tariff barriers to trade'.
the eu security environment is today more volatile, more unpredictable, more complex and more ambiguous than at any time since the end of the cold war.
we need multilateral institutions to promote rights, to protect the environment and to govern globalisation.
our work on climate change or the work to preserve the nuclear deal with iran are both examples of our readiness to engage selectively and with ad hoc coalitions.
i believe the european union has had and continues to have a unique, even though difficult, role to play, but i am sure that we will continue to work together to support a sustainable political solution to each one of these crises.
it is about defence, but also about development, artificial intelligence, climate change, crisis management and also reconciliation.
a second issue which is important and also an achievement for parliament is that we are reflecting on the fact that we are living in an ever-changing innovation environment.
i would like to refer also to revolutionary issues such as what we did in the energy challenge.
for the first time, we don’t fight the fight between co2 reduction and competitiveness, we just focus on energy production.
we have such an amazing energy that we can swiftly go and do it as far as we can and have an interinstitutional negotiation as soon as we can, and i’m convinced that there is still a window of opportunity to conclude the political agreement.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction.
to feel secure again, convinced that all challenges are being met, to experience in his daily life the positive impact of common policies in areas such as health, the environment, working conditions, areas affecting the problems of everyday life and the well-being of citizens.
we want an ambitious budget that includes those expenditures necessary to address contemporary societal challenges; challenges that address a wide range of priority areas such as the digital transition, promoting sustainable development, climate change, innovation, migration, the rise of extreme nationalism, asymmetric threats and the fight against terrorism.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
the long-term objective of defending the acquis of the common market requires all the necessary measures to be taken to adapt to the new data as they have developed, to respond fully to the modern needs of the digital age, to the challenges of the low energy footprint of a circular economy and, above all, to have a positive impact on the daily lives of its citizens.
there is clearly room for further improvement, always in a climate of consensus and respect for the particular sensitivities of each member state.
another challenge, ladies and gentlemen, that we are called upon to face is that of climate change.
if we underestimate the visible risks, the consequences will be tragic not only for the ecosystem but also for the economy and, as you all know, for the daily lives of our fellow citizens.
within the framework of our broader regional role and trilateral cooperation, we intend to take on a coordinating role at regional level to address the consequences of climate change and related synergies with countries in the region.
as you know, the eastern mediterranean is one of the regions most affected by the effects of environmental change.
the institutionalisation of tripartite cooperation is also proving to be of particular benefit to the european union, particularly in the energy sector, by contributing to the objective of energy security and diversification of the union's energy sources and supply corridors.
but it also continues to support cyprus across the board, including meeting its climate and energy costs.
and on the energy union, as a final point, i want to underline that today we, as europeans, are depending a lot on oil and gas from foreign sources.
and on the other hand, we will not allow turkey to slow down the cypriots in their search for different energy sources.
president anastasiades, i am very grateful that you brought up the issue of climate change.
i have to tell you that not many of your colleagues have done so before you, and of course cyprus is also one of the countries that’s most affected by climate change in the european union, even though none of us is going to be spared.
all those effects of climate change are very well known in cyprus.
right now, we have the climate summit happening in katowice, and the eu’s role in achieving a safeguard for our common planet is absolutely vital.
but the eu can only be as strong as its members are – and are willing to be – so i’m asking you: what is your government strategy and concrete proposals to mitigate the impact of climate change in cyprus?
cyprus would have a great potential, for example, for renewable energy.
as rapporteur, i would like, in accordance with rule 59, to propose that the matter be referred back to the committee on industry, research and energy for interinstitutional negotiations.
in the coming years, the european space sector will also have to deal with major challenges in relation, of course, with global evolutions on environmental, economic, security and geopolitical levels, and additionally there is a disruptive wave in the making.
climate change, digitalisation, data economy, security, safety of people and goods, competitiveness of the european space industry, strategic autonomy – that was mentioned before – and technological independence are all issues that are directly linked to the space programme that we are discussing here today.
the second is to foster an evolution to ensure that our current programmes and projects are responding to the new needs – more precise positioning for connected cars, for example – but also fighting climate change and ensuring more security for europeans.
i’m happy that the commission’s proposal for the eu space programme has been equally supported by the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), but also by the associated committees: the committee on budgets (budg), the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri), the committee on transport and tourism (tran) and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi).
the impact of the space programme on the whole european economy, in particular for small and medium—sized enterprises, but also for mid—caps, and the need to better support space startups, the importance of maintaining an autonomous access to space and the impact of the european space initiatives on the other policy areas – that was also mentioned before – agriculture, transport, of course, environment, climate monitoring, security and defence.
the vote will take place on thursday 13 december 2018.
the next item is the debate on the report by angelika mlinar, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the 'digital europe' programme for the period 2021-2027 (com ((2018) 0434 c8-0256/2018 2018/0227 cod)) (a8-0408/2018).
the first is: we stand in solidarity, without if and but, with all the people in iran who are demonstrating against social and economic injustices, against corruption and mismanagement because their living conditions have become unbearable with the truck drivers who are not getting paid, with the environmental activists who are fighting against climate damage.