this is crucial, as governance is the backbone of the energy union.
saying that trade is part of our policy and the values that we have in europe on sustainability, human rights, labour rights and the environment are fundamental to us.
this is a very important debate and what we have neglected in the past is that the trade-related rules we have introduced haven’t respected the fundamental rights of workers or the environment.
therefore, it is important to link trade with sustainability and, i would say, with behaviour on how the rules work in globalisation.
what we are unfortunately seeing today are rising inequalities and, if we want to fight that, we need a rule—based trade order in which rules on workers, the environment and human rights are at the core.
globalisation, climate change, the refugee crisis – all of these we have to face together.
we also need to ensure, when we do trade liberalisation and make trade agreements, that these trade agreements also follow our values, our rules on sustainable development, protecting the environment, protecting labour rights, protecting human rights, and ensuring that big corporations pay their fair taxes.
now we are here, and the commission has recognised that plastic pollution is "big things".
but first, let me take the rose further: it is good that there is a coherent description of the problem, so that we have both health, climate, nature, jobs and resource efficiency, and that the need for competitive advantages is mentioned.
it's a disaster that this substance is in our environment.
plastics need to be better regulated, and waste in particular is a huge problem that we are now taking responsibility for.
the losers in this are the consumers and our environment, and that is not possible!
it often happens that when we have important votes in this house we are bombarded with e-mails and letters from citizens and with all kinds of expressions of concern from citizens about the environment or the economy or whatever it may be.
so i think that the people who are very busy today talking about the death penalty should spend as much energy talking about iran, china, the united states, but this is not a debate we have here every two or three months.
i particularly need to stress that one of the serious shortcomings of the eu's environmental efforts is that our biodiversity has been so terribly damaged.
and biodiversity itself is at the heart of all of our lives.
it's also of enormous value to the climate.
yes, dieselgate revealed that a number of car manufacturers deliberately cheated with diesel cars' emissions of the health-damaging nox gases.
there are simply so many trucks, and that's kind of good for our trade, but it's not very good for the climate if our trucks and other heavy vehicles continue to emit as much co2 as they do.
it is the first legislation to help us monitor and report the co2 emissions of lorries and other heavy vehicles.
again, because we know it's so important - this transparency in our data is a critical tool to ensure that we have a more climate-friendly transport sector.
so we are now in exactly the same situation as we were in relation to the paris climate agreement, that it is the prerogative of the president in office at any given time to decide whether to abide by the agreement or leave it.
it's good for the environment, it's good for health, it's good for the way we design our societies.
suddenly it's not about the environment and health and consumer protection anymore.
i must therefore say that i am very surprised that we cannot simply say: let us do something good for the environment, let us do something good for public health.
it is not possible, and that is why europe must be the defender of the welfare states and of the citizens for a proper pension system, proper welfare, proper health, proper education, it must ensure the freedom of our welfare states and the sustainability of our welfare states.
the transition to a sustainable and circular economy is necessary.
for the sake of the environment, to reduce the pressure on our planet's resources, and then for our health.
and we must also strengthen our efforts to classify, register, track and dispose of waste containing dangerous substances.
this is not just a problem for the marine environment, it is also a problem for the rest of nature.
so as i listen to the debate here tonight, i do think it is regrettable that there are some who think that a 45% reduction target for co2 emissions by 2030 is too ambitious.
we need to ensure that we comply with the paris agreement on climate change, and we cannot do that without the transport sector contributing.
i fully support the position of the committee on the environment on this matter.
let’s not waste this opportunity by being reckless and throwing the door open to simplification of vat requirements to all corners.
it was a bit of a beauty contest to see what was going on in the environment committee here during the process leading up to the vote today, with all the incredibly ambitious proposals put forward by the various groups.
we ended up with a good compromise, and our delegation and our group were able to agree with that, partly because of course it is important to do something about the climate, but it is also about our strategic and major political independence, which is a neglected theme in this debate.
i think it is important that we also talk about this dimension of the whole energy supply business, that it is really also about who we ally ourselves with - and that must of course be the western alliance with the united states at the head, nato, etc.
a great many are being built, and it is good that we are now also creating legislation which makes it possible to attract data to countries which want it - and not least to countries which produce green energy.
the fight against plastic pollution in both the sea and in nature has become a people's issue, and that is why it is important that we now deliver something proper so that the people - our citizens - can see that we are doing something right here.
so thank you to the commission for a good proposal which follows the strategy we also had in my plastic pollution law, namely prevention.
three years ago, european leaders joined hands in paris to sign an ambitious climate agreement.
hands on the front lines of the climate fight.
just look at the new renewable energy and energy efficiency targets we are voting on this week.
obviously, because we know that climate change is a bigger threat than ever before.
and of course, because we know that the price of solar and wind energy is falling year by year.
it is good that we were able to make at least some agreements, and congratulations to all the rapporteurs involved, but we are not ambitious enough on behalf of the climate.
we must be even more ambitious, otherwise we will lose the fight against climate change that is currently under way.
we are the first generation to experience these climate changes, and we are the last to do anything real and effective to limit them.
you have helped to lay the foundations for a more sustainable european energy system with the new rules.
and there is a lot at stake: the future climate, our international climate agreements, and with these rules we actually have a huge european growth potential.
and then we are also talking about the fact that it is the energy bills of citizens and the competitiveness of companies and export opportunities that are at stake.
if we don't use our energy wisely and better, our companies will pay the price through higher carbon pricing.
all energy is valuable and must be used optimally, so the concept of 'energy efficiency first' must be put into practice.
european energy policy is only as strong as the eu countries make it.
the updated renewable energy framework sets a clear path for europe's green transition and global leadership and even more european innovation and new thinking in, inter alia, the bio- and transport sectors.
we are in the midst of a new digital age, and this places extra demands on all of us to create the best possible environment for european users and european citizens.
the peace project, migration, climate change, the achievement of a well-functioning internal market, free and fair trade, all these are important issues on which we can agree that we must strengthen the cooperation we are engaged in.
it is labour before stock prices, and it is also climate before competition.
first of all, i want to thank the prime minister for a great speech, thank you for the perspective that is specifically on climate, sustainability, energy.
so, on the subject of climate, sustainability and so on, i'm glad for the moments that came up in the speech today.
we use 40% of our energy in our homes, 75% of europe's buildings are energy inefficient, so we need to do something about the existing building stock to meet climate targets.
so there are now some long-term plans for eu member states to increase the renovation rate of our buildings in europe, so that we can also meet the climate targets, while actually being the cheapest way to cut co2 at all.
it is to recognise a concept of 'climate refugees', it is to give migrants social rights, and it is to talk about integration instead of repatriation of refugees whose stay by definition is to be temporary until they get protection.
this is really good and it is really gratifying because this regulation actually gives us the opportunity to bring much more transparency, openness and sustainability into our whole food chain.