mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me be clear: europe is playing its credibility with the world on the energy standards we are starting to debate today.
two years ago in paris, we committed to fighting climate change, the greatest threat the world has ever faced.
and in that fight, it's vital to drive an energy model shift, decarbonize the economy and shift to a sustainable model that pivots on renewable energy.
the european parliament is therefore obliged to honour the word given to europe, the word given by europe to the world, by committing us to promoting a new energy model based on renewable sources.
europe cannot be left with empty words, with grand rhetorical statements without a firm political commitment to curb climate change.
climate change is knocking on our doors every day, hitting us deadly.
the international renewable energy agency has calculated that the european union can double its renewables share from 17% in 2015 to 34% in 2030 in a cost-effective way.
i therefore call on parliament to send a strong, unambiguous and loud message in favour of renewable energy, so that no one can doubt that this house will not allow any carelessness in our commitment to climate change.
mr president, european energy policy is not just a european matter.
if we really want to be a sustainable and supportive continent, the energy we consume in europe cannot have negative effects on other countries: on the rights of its farmers and indigenous peoples, on human rights, on the environment and on animals.
to do this, the european union must eliminate agrofuels from its energy mix.
we also regret that the report on renewable sources has not included the recommendation of the committee on development.
social sustainability criteria are needed to avoid land grabs and also sustainability criteria on forest biomass to avoid deforestation in third countries.
clean energy, solidarity and global justice must go hand in hand.
unfortunately, we see how the commitment made by the european union in the paris agreement to reach 100% renewable energy by 2050 can be reduced to a blank page.
without binding targets, few countries will make a firm commitment and encourage the necessary investments in clean energy.
and all this with an increase in carbon emissions.
if we do not create the basis for another energy model that is not in the interest of the market, we will have lost time that is essential to reverse climate change and its serious consequences for the planet and its inhabitants.
mr president, the clean energy package represents the european union's contributions to the paris agreement on climate change.
and in paris we saw, firstly, the commissioner for climate action and energy, arias cañete, and secondly, also the governments of the european union taking the picture.
but the fight against climate change is decided with deeds and not just photos saving whales.
fortunately, however, in the area of energy efficiency, the alternative majority has been adopted and has allowed this to happen.
to be ambitious in energy is to want what is best for europe in the fight against climate change.
and that is that energy is also a common good and necessary for people and not everything is market, market and market.
one in four people in the european union suffers from energy poverty while energy is wasted and while public money is used in megaprojects for large energy companies.
mr president, commissioner, we are discussing today three proposals which are crucial to meeting europe's energy and climate commitments linked to the agreements on emission reductions: a 27% renewable energy target, a 40% energy efficiency target and an energy policy coordination framework as a necessary instrument to ensure compliance with these targets.
firstly, interconnections, in order to meet the renewable energy target.
because i am absolutely in favour of combating energy poverty, but also the poverty of the unemployed and the excluded, because, in pursuit of such ambitious objectives as to force a deadly leap forward, as deadly as we remember what we did in the automobile sector, territories and families are thrown into total uncertainty, while neither new jobs nor certainties arrive.
we need, of course, a just transition with sufficient funding, both to make it credible and for new jobs, and also with sufficient flexibility in the energy mix so that, while the utopia in which we believe comes, the old-fashioned ones do not continue to win: now in monopoly, the nuclear-based power stations.
and we must make this commitment now, because, as a parliament, as a representative of the citizens, we have an appointment with history, which is to make a firm commitment to combat climate change.
and having heard the council's proposal, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to call for a much stronger and clearer vote on parliament's proposal to overcome the obstacles we still have to achieve this objective of committing ourselves to clean energy, to commit ourselves to renewable energy.
– the governance regulation is the umbrella legislation of the winter package, covering all dimensions of the energy union, and a vital foundation for achieving the overall objectives of the energy union and the eu targets set out in the sectorial legislation for renewable energy and energy efficiency.
it is the backbone of the winter package, which will drive the transition to a renewables-based and energy-efficient economy.
governance is the key for businesses, for citizens, for the climate, for our future.
the eu needs to demonstrate it is serious about the energy transition and turn its commitments under the paris agreement into concrete actions.
achieving maximum sustainable yield from the activity requires both a shift away from utopia and a recognition that the fishing activity, including its professionals, must also be considered part of the system that must be protected.
contrary to what mep hookem said, we do have independent scientific assessments, and according to our independent scientific assessments, the conventional way of fishing by beam trawling has proven to have a negative impact on the ecosystem.
if properly controlled and applied, i underline these words, electric pulse simulation may offer a more ecologically benign alternative way of fishing by reducing unwanted by-catch, reducing seabed damage and lowering co2 emissions.
in its advice of 2012, the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries (stecf) concluded that most ecological concerns raised by the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) have been adequately addressed.
subsequently, advice from ices in 2016 concluded that – and i will quote – conventional beam trawling has significant and well demonstrated negative economic ecosystem impacts.
– mr president, honourable members, again i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, linnéa engström, and her team for the excellent work, and i would like also to thank the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and its rapporteur, ms vălean, for its opinion.
let me assure you that the commission will continue working together with the regional fisheries management organisations to ensure better ocean governance and more sustainable fishing.
the environmental dimension is very important, but so is the economic and social dimension.
i also support and welcome the inclusion of two contributions to sustainability.
climate change affects men and women differently across the planet.
that is why i am pleased that for the first time a report on climate justice and gender equality is being adopted, on the initiative of my political group, the european greens.
women can and should play a crucial role in climate policy.
this is essential to put the focus on gender when talking about decision-making, financing and investment on climate change, fighting deforestation, agriculture, education, access to energy and entrepreneurship in the energy transition.
it means greater awareness of the environment and the protection of our natural heritage.
mr president, when we say that we want sovereignty, we mean real and effective popular sovereignty in the management of our fisheries resources, based, of course, on criteria of sustainability, equity, social justice and transparency.
these big companies don't do sustainable fishing or take care of the sea.
electric fishing is totally incompatible with the sustainability that the european institutions claim to be seeking with the cfp.
in 2015, 195 countries committed to a global agreement to reduce air pollution, but we have yet to do anything globally to address marine pollution.
containers, waste, organic pollution from uncontrolled discharges of faecal and effluent waters, intensive aquaculture: these are some of the main problems affecting fisheries on the spanish coast and also on european and world coasts.
we must react, and the only way to do so, the only way to fight this way of life and generate waste is to generate a way of life that precisely defends the people who care for the sea and who live from it, who are, again and again, the people who defend and fight for small-scale fishing.
mr president, climate change does not affect everyone equally.
in addition, they are usually living in vulnerable areas, exposed to the impacts of increasingly unpredictable climate change.
it is therefore necessary and urgent to include women as central actors in the fight against climate change.
in spain, for example, the popular party government has set up a committee of 14 experts solely to draft the new law on climate change and energy transition.
i want to denounce here these intolerable situations that continue to perpetuate power relations that undermine the possibility of moving towards climate justice.
i want to call for feminist environmental policies and more women in decision-making spaces, of course.
patches are not enough to combat climate change.
if climate change is the biggest threat we face today, the fight against it must be global and it must be feminist.
first of all, i am glad that there is no longer any doubt that each of these treaties should be accompanied by a chapter on sustainable development.
and some of you will say no, that the labour and environmental clauses of the new treaties are binding.
it is enough that the sustainable development chapter in the treaties is a mere decorative appendix!
i think it is essential that we have a chapter on sustainable development that has the right content and that ensures its implementation.
but i wonder how we can better guide behaviour so that development is truly sustainable if we do not set up mechanisms based on sanctions.
finally, i would like to ask you what mechanisms you envisage for the review of agreements already signed, so that they can incorporate these advances in the sustainable development chapter in an agile and rapid manner.
mr president, following this clear and unequivocal mandate in favour of clean energy, i propose, in accordance with rule 59 of the rules of procedure, that the matter be referred back to committee so that negotiations can begin with the other institutions.
its objectives, as we have already heard, are to ensure more effective communication and promotion of eu policies towards these neighbourhoods and eu member states, to contribute to a strengthened media environment in these neighbourhoods and member states, and to improve eu capacity to forecast, address and respond to disinformation activities by external actors.
to give some examples: shell, for complicity in human rights violations against the ogoni people; shell and eni, for international corruption trial currently underway in italy―; or eni, for example, for environmental damage caused by the 2010 oil pipeline explosion.
the commitments made by the european union through the european development fund, although modest, are essential in priority areas such as health, the environment and agriculture, and the strengthening of democratic governance and the rule of law.
the european central bank has played a very important role in the economic recovery, but it has become clear that monetary policy alone is not enough to achieve a sustainable and more balanced and inclusive economic recovery.
we count on your continued support in building the foundations for sustainable growth and job creation in europe.
also, the low-inflation environment that has prevailed for a long time is now influencing current negotiations.
written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the manipulation of scientific studies by multinationals following emissions tests on monkeys and humans by the german car industry (2018/2565 ((rsp))
in writing.
the automobile industry does not care about the more than 70,000 premature deaths caused by emissions from fuels, mainly diesel, with extreme pollutant levels in more than 130 cities in 23 states since 2103. the oil lobby is their biggest ally.
78% of the oil consumed in europe is used in road transport, the only industrial sector that does not reduce its ghg emissions and continues to increase them.
– madam president, i am glad we are meeting tonight to finalise the adoption of the revised european union emission trading system (ets) directive, creating a solid framework for the european carbon market for the next decade.
the european union ets remains the most important instrument to realise our ambition of a reduction of at least 40% in greenhouse gas emissions within the european union by 2030. with the political agreement reached in early november last year, we can proudly show to our citizens and to the world that the european union is delivering and turning political words into legal commitments.
it strikes a proper balance between strengthening the european union carbon market and incentivising industry to decarbonise with innovative solutions and renewable energy, while being mindful of the specific challenges of lower-income member states, in particular regarding the modernisation of their energy systems.
the european union ets is a great example of a forward-looking regulation where european legislation enables innovation and modernisation of our energy system.
the temporary doubling of the feeding rate for the market stability reserve and the limitation set for the validity of allowances in the reserve will ensure that market balance will be restored swiftly and that the carbon price creates incentives for long-term low-carbon investments.
regarding the free allocation to avoid carbon leakage, a free allocation buffer of around 450 million allowances was created, at parliament’s request, to avoid a cross-sectoral correction factor.
and finally, because of the european parliament’s insistence, the modernisation provisions will also enable activities fostering a just transition of labour on the way towards a low-carbon economy; and, as an additional safeguard for investments, no support from the modernisation fund will be granted to coal-related energy generation, with the exception of district heating in bulgaria and romania.
i invite you to lend your support to the political agreement in tomorrow’s vote to ensure that the legislation enters swiftly into force and the necessary changes are in place by january 2021. there is no time to lose in the european transition to a low-carbon economy.
madam president, the energy transition is also a matter of justice and sharing between the countries of the north and the countries of the south.
in line with the paris agreement, the european union could have turned its emissions trading scheme into a powerful instrument for climate and solidarity.
some ideas for the future: that half of the auction revenues be allocated to climate action in vulnerable countries; that the aviation sector contribute to the 2030 climate target at the same level as other sectors and that those revenues go to climate action in vulnerable countries; that international shipping contribute based on emissions generated in, to or from european ports; that the zero emission factor of biomass be limited to waste and waste to avoid land grabbing and deforestation in the south.
the energy transition in europe cannot be done at the expense of others, but in solidarity with others.
madam president we know that the energy transition is much more than a change in technologies, and that it is also a change in models.
scientific and technological innovation certainly has a very important role to play, but it must be accompanied by a profound change in the energy system and by innovations also at the social level, for example, that citizens are the main and central actors in this energy transition.
to encourage this clean energy innovation, it is essential to set ambitious targets - something this house and the european union as a whole do not do, because there is an inconsistency between words and deeds.
last month in this house the major groups agreed to set targets for energy efficiency and renewable energy of only 35%, which are not binding on the member states, i.e.
sectors such as renewable innovation or energy efficiency need clear signals of public commitment, which is why we advocate that they be strongly supported by the public sector.
madam president, clean energy innovation must be a driver to meet our climate and energy objectives, and also to seize the competitive opportunities presented by clean and affordable energy, thus ensuring european leadership in renewable energy.
the establishment of stable regulatory frameworks and the coordination of the various instruments that promote energy and avoid duplication are necessary.
we must not forget that this innovation must reach all citizens and especially those affected by energy poverty.
finally, this innovation in the energy transition should be shared and exported to third countries, facilitating access to clean energy.
zimbabwe is also one of the most indebted countries in the world and it illustrates, once again, that we need to approach debt from a human rights-based approach and its long-term sustainability, as well as from fair standards that redefine lending mechanisms.
this call for presidential elections is a new mockery of the dialogue process taking place in the dominican republic, a process that is once again being instrumentalized by maduro to serve his only interest: to perpetuate himself in power and to preserve his corrupt network and that of his environment while the people suffer the consequences of his failed model.
they deserve sanctions that should be extended to the government of venezuela and its environment.
we may have differences with the united states on the paris agreement on climate change, the trans-pacific agreement, the trade and investment agreement, the appointment of arbitrators in the special groups of the world trade organization, but we are talking about people here, we are talking about millions of people: two million refugees in lebanon; almost 500 000 refugees in jordan; 540 000 refugees in syria; 1 400 000 in the gaza strip; 800 000 in the west bank.
energy policy, to combat energy poverty.
what made this continent unique in the last century was its social market economy, that is, reconciling progress, democracy and sustainable growth.
what made this continent unique in the last century was its social market economy, that is, reconciling progress, democracy and sustainable growth.
what made this continent unique in the last century was its social market economy, that is, reconciling progress, democracy and sustainable growth.
in july 2017, this plenary already gave the green light to one of the components of that plan, which was the european fund for sustainable development, and today we are debating here another of its components, which is the modification of the eib's external lending mandate, whose activities are guaranteed by the union budget.
i would like to start by recalling that all the countries of the union, and the commission too, signed up to the sustainable development goals and that all our actions must therefore be geared to achieving them.
the first, and probably the most important, is that we have added a new priority and cross-cutting objective so that all initiatives funded through this programme contribute to meeting the sustainable development goals and thus eradicate the causes for which people have to leave their homes.
in addition, to meet the paris agreement and our commitment to helping developing countries, we have increased the percentage to be devoted to climate change-related investments from 25% to 35%.
another area in which we have also worked and improved the decision has been supporting the development of the local private sector, improving access to finance for smes, encouraging the transition from an informal economy to the formal sector and providing special support for investment projects in rural areas, particularly for drinking water treatment, sanitation and renewable energy.
on the one hand, we have introduced a whole new chapter on the evaluation of the programme; we have established a series of parameters and their corresponding indicators to be able to evaluate the results of the investments from a social, environmental and economic point of view.
the eib promotes financial gain and crimes against human rights and the environment.
yesterday you approved 1.5 billion euros for the tap, a gas pipeline with no climate impact report and which ignores human rights violations in azerbaijan, turkey and repression in southern italy.
because if we want to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves as a union, we must look beyond economic sustainability to other criteria when assessing projects, such as social, environmental or territorial cohesion criteria.
in fact, the eib is planning to undertake a review of its energy lending criteria this year.
so we in this parliament encourage them to focus their energy policy on energy efficiency and renewable energy projects.
transparency in the implementation of public policies is essential, as it promotes the credibility of the bank and the institutions on the one hand and facilitates the monitoring of the investment mobilised, of the financial intermediaries, of the final beneficiaries and, above all, of the effectiveness and sustainability of the financed projects.
i simply wanted to give a brief summary of what the objective of this report was, because what we have tried to do is, of course, to analyse the situation of the european investment bank, how it carries out its activities, and, above all, we have given it many tasks for the future, because in the end we asked it to do more for small and mediumsized enterprises, to improve the geographical balance in its investments, to do more in its policy against climate change by modifying it, to do more in equality policy, more in social infrastructure, more in transparency, more in accountability, more in indicators, etc.
and in this case, they are those of lolita chávez, threatened with death in guatemala, persecuted and with a new arrest warrant, prosecuted for defending indigenous communities and their natural environment in guatemala.
and for some time now we have been watching with great concern how human rights ngos are also beginning to be singled out as suspects, both here in the fight to prevent more deaths in the mediterranean sea, as in latin america or in other regions and territories, where, in addition, the women defenders who make up the weakest component also need our support in an increasingly visible, stronger and more evident way, since they are the ones who, as leaders of their communities, work every day in favour of their missing, of families, fight against violence against them and their children, in the defence also of their communities, the environment and natural resources.
we agree that we must also study - and this was something we had already agreed on - the benefits, for energy efficiency and, above all, also because we, as tourist countries, felt that our longer hours would be just the better.
it is clear - and several studies have shown this - that energy savings today are marginal and that, however, there is an impact on the biorhythms of citizens that can have consequences for health.
we therefore think it is reasonable to carry out an in-depth impact study on the effects of the change in time on the various dimensions of health, work and energy consumption, and on the whole of europe, given that we have known for some time that this is unnecessary and harmful.
on the other hand, energy saving, one of the very important arguments put forward to justify these changes, also seems to be insignificant.
i am glad to hear that this has indeed been taken up after the vote in the committee on the environment and that the references to the 'breeding and sowing' system on the labelling will be accepted.
support pilot projects on bees and other pollinators as indicators of environmental and habitat health.
the protection of the beekeeping sector should not be linked exclusively to honey production, as it involves the important aspect of pollination of crops and the conservation of biodiversity.
their effects persist in the environment long after use.
although the use of these insecticides was restricted in the eu in 2013, their ban is necessary as the permitted applications are still an aggression on the natural environment that we cannot afford.
i want to draw attention to one serious problem that concerns the protection of the environment in the eu.
this photo is the consequence of the bad policies being made in water matters by the government of spain; that there is so little water prevents a good dilution, which causes a serious pollution of the tagus river.
i would ask you, commissioner, to transfer this to the college of commissioners, now that they have to assess the river basin plans - in this case the tagus river - which are intended to correct this serious damage to the environment in one of the main rivers in europe.
jephthah wept much, but each tear reminded her that the alternative was to marry at twelve years of age a much older man chosen by her father, a stiff, rude one; to suffer a frightful mutilation to make her an object in the service of the lord of the house; to travel tens of kilometers daily hunched over the weight of fifteen liters of water; to breathe toxic smoke to transform what would here pass for waste into a single meal a day; to plow the earth with her nails; to give birth to a few children and see half of them die; to go hungry; to suffer, little by little, the loss of teeth, the brilliance of her eyes, the cracks in her skin; to shut down; to end up, at twenty-four, as a worn-out, worthless piece of furniture.
madam president, i would like to conclude by recalling that women and girls in the rural world are essential agents in achieving the eradication of poverty worldwide, ending hunger, promoting sustainable agriculture and achieving food security.
it is a serious problem and therefore must be tackled seriously, with serious measures, in order to have a good response and not cause problems for the environment.
eu trade policy already contributes to this goal through some of its instruments, for example, its sustainability impact assessments, the generalised system of preferences, the gsp+ and the trade and sustainable development chapters of the european union’s free trade agreements.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation is a good example of the need to ensure that the protection of the environment is not jeopardised by the introduction of new technologies.
that is why i am asking the commission to support the measures contained in this report, which are widely supported by this parliament, and among which i would highlight the following: the inclusion of a gender chapter in all trade agreements, including those currently being negotiated, as well as ambitious sustainable development chapters, with effective and enforceable mandatory measures on labour rights and labour and environmental standards, taking into account, of course, women's rights and freedoms.
however, the economic empowerment of women is one of the sustainable development goals to which the european union has committed itself.
so let's not let him waste another minute.
madam president, madam commissioner, climate change is undeniable and a daily reality.
and we're seeing an increase in extreme temperatures, forest fires, droughts, floods and storms, as well as the proliferation of invasive alien species and biodiversity loss, and on the other hand, competition for water and energy demand.
the evidence of human responsibility for climate change is overwhelming and is already having devastating environmental effects and high socioeconomic costs, especially for the most vulnerable populations.
climate change is also accentuating social disparities across our union.
but the whole of the population is already suffering serious health problems due to pollution, with cancers, allergies, premature deaths, etc.
the report i am presenting therefore deplores, first of all, the withdrawal of the united states from the paris agreement and presents alternatives and responses from the perspective of the role of cities and municipalities in the fight against climate change.
the european union has a lot of work ahead of it and contributes - it must be said - to 9% of global emissions and its cities generate 75% of them.
cities have a great responsibility for global warming and a great potential for solutions.
it has been a lot of teamwork, involving several experts in the field, and we have collected an important social demand: to put the fight against climate change on the political agenda, once again and forcefully.
the report can be a real political reference point on the role of european regions and cities in climate change.
i also ask all the members of this house to vote in favour tomorrow and thus make an important step forward on the issue of global warming.
it would be a real and definitive step forward in the fight against global warming.
it should not be forgotten that the european parliament is the voice of the people and in this report it underlines the urgency and the extreme importance of combating global warming.
the european commission must therefore take up and implement the proposals in this report, although sometimes i, as a spaniard, have to regret that it is precisely the commissioner for climate action and energy, mr arias cañete, who is known in my country for the measures against renewable energies that are being implemented in our country.
and, to make matters worse, the spanish government has for years been pursuing a policy of cutting the powers and economic resources of local authorities, unacceptably limiting their capacity to implement measures against global warming.
in this context, the eu needs to assert its own project for life with a long-term strategy based on human dignity, justice, democracy and sustainable development.
in this context, the eu needs to assert its own project for life with a long-term strategy based on human dignity, justice, democracy and sustainable development.
mr president, combating climate change requires both large and small actions, and that 'small, local' scale is the one that is showing the greatest commitment to the energy transition.
in spain, for example, the municipalities of change are playing a key role, with measures such as those in madrid, barcelona and cadiz to ensure that public buildings are supplied with 100% renewable energy, to support energy efficiency in households or to eradicate energy poverty.
from our cities and from our counties we must put the new, more sustainable energy system in the hands of the people.
on behalf of the committee on fisheries, i would like to stress the socioeconomic and ecological importance of the fisheries sector, the marine environment and the blue economy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
if we want an ambitious eu, a union that is able to deal with key challenges of our times and to deliver real outcomes in terms of progress, sustainability, equality and fundamental freedoms, then we need to reverse the downward trend in the amount spent by the eu, a trend that has been aggravated by the current mff.
secondly, the next mff needs to focus more on delivering results in sustainability and in the fight against climate change.
that’s why our group stressed so much the importance of aligning the eu budget with the sustainable development goals and to significantly increase climate-related spending to reach at least the 30% target as soon as possible.
we have signed many landmark agreements in this parliament: the paris agreement to combat climate change, the gothenburg agreements for a real social pillar; we have even signed the sustainable development goals.
we are asking our farmers and livestock farmers to produce in accordance with environmental criteria; to offer us quality products at affordable prices; to keep the population in the countryside and, above all, to encourage young people to enter the sector.
we need more public resources, not less, to tackle the challenges that concern europeans, mainly unemployment, the environment, precariousness and poverty or tax fraud; the gains made in the fight against tax fraud would be an excellent source of revenue, along with new figures for eco-quotas or a tax on financial transactions.
new challenges such as climate change, innovation or depopulation cannot be met with dwindling resources.
because our commitments to combat climate change, to the energy transition and, in short, to a model of sustainable development must be reflected in this budget.
because we believe this is the best possible way, not only to build a more peaceful and cooperative international environment, but also to improve the daily lives of our people, both in europe and, crucially, inside cuba.
we, the european union, intervened immediately with our humanitarian aid in their support, and we are also helping them restart their farms and rebuild their homes in a more sustainable way so that the next hurricane will be less devastating than the last one.
first, renewable energy, which is key for both of us.
second, sustainable agriculture, especially for the areas hardest hit by the hurricane.
it is the best tool we have to work for sustainable development, social justice, democracy and human rights.
we believe that a multilateral global order is possible and it would help us build a more sustainable development world-wide.
he mentioned the field of renewable energy, sustainable agriculture and culture.
some of the challenges have already been mentioned: improvement in terms of democratic governance, security and the rise of jihadism, illicit trafficking, natural resources (both energy and water) and their management.
i commit to doing this more and more in all the different fields from the economic to human rights and rule of law, to security and to regional developments, including the security issue, the geo-political dynamics, the crossroads between east and west and north and south, and obviously also on sustainable development and own resources, including water.
it’s european standards on economic investments and business climate and rules of the game for the economic environment.
ladies and gentlemen, to put an end to the profound inequalities that plague europe, we need urgent reforms that will allow a change in the production model, which is socially and ecologically sustainable and capable of creating quality jobs for everyone in all the member states.
however, to reduce poverty, we need long-term policies that contribute to the effective and sustainable integration of the most disadvantaged, policies that must have the active collaboration of specialised ngos and the organizations of people living in poverty themselves.
climate change and the lack of prevention warrants a policy response that must be coordinated across europe to address recurring and emerging capacity gaps, because fires have no borders.
what is your view of the need to strengthen the european civil protection mechanism so that it is more flexible, timely and with more financial and human resources and to coordinate the fight against fires with agricultural, environmental and transport policy?
you said - and i agree - that we have a great challenge, which is the fight against climate change: to promote an energy transition based on renewable energies.
your country has been an example: it was a country which, in one month last may, was able to survive for four days on wind, solar and marine energy.
but i ask you, mr costa, to join the council with the countries which want more ambition in renewable energy to bring the european union's renewable energy objectives into line with the paris objectives.
at the same time, the future of the sector does not depend on the massive export of large-scale industry, based on monoculture, but on another agricultural model that gives priority to the environment, good working conditions, public health and animal welfare.
this is the best response to trump: a just transition to a living, sustainable field.
we must put small and medium-sized farmers and the sustainability of our rural world above the big profits of agribusiness, and favor short cycles and agroecology.
mr president, promoting sustainable development, combating waste generation, protecting biodiversity and so on and so forth.
through its external action, it exports its sustainability standards and serves as an incentive for third countries to improve their fisheries management, which is beneficial both for the union and its consumers and for the sustainability of ecosystems and fisheries resources.
the authorities are putting very little energy and resources into monitoring and controlling fishing activity, and they are not updating their outdated fisheries legislation, which is in breach of their obligations under international law.
the european union is committed to sustainable fishing based on clear rules, but it must also show its strong commitment to fighting illegal fishing worldwide.
and that is why i ask you that, for the new energy mec, we do not have to go through what we had to go through last time, when we almost had to push for money and, of course, for more courageous and urgent legislation.
the state of emergency suspended constitutional guarantees and mechanisms of control and separation of powers, exacerbating the climate of repression against freedom of expression and assembly and the persecution and attacks on political opponents, journalists and members of civil society, as well as human rights defenders.
they murdered an activist, a feminist, a human rights activist, an anti-capitalist; an activist murdered in a climate of pre-election political violence in brazil.
from this point of view, we express our solidarity with your colleagues and, above all, we firmly condemn, from the european parliament, this climate of violence in brazil.
some – if not all – regions and territories have done their job and are working hard towards the results by putting in place support for energy transition, creating new jobs and continuing to fight poverty and social exclusion.
the first item on the agenda is the joint debate on:- the report by norbert lins, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the inclusion of greenhouse gas emissions and removals from land use, land-use change and forestry in the climate and energy framework until 2030 and amending regulation no 525/2013 of the european parliament and of the council on a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions and other information relevant to climate change (com (2016) 0479 - c8-0330/2016 - 2016/0230 (cod)) (a8-0262/2017) and the report by jan-ben gerandy, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions and other information relevant to climate change (com (2016) 0481 - c8-0231 (cod)) and other greenhouse gas emissions and energy-related information for the purpose of complying with the paris agreement (com (2016) 0481 - c8-0231 (cod)) and the report by jan-ben gerandy, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, environment, public health and energy) on the proposal for a mechanism for the inclusion of greenhouse gas emissions and removals from land use, land use, land use, land use, land use change and forestry and forestry in the climate change and forestry in the framework of the climate action framework for the framework for the climate change for the year 2030 climate change (com (2016) 0488-2030), and amending framework, and amending regulation of the european parliament and the european parliament and the annual report on greenhouse gas) and
member of the commission.
– mr president, i am glad we are meeting today to finalise the adoption of two key files to achieve our 2030 climate target.
they show our international partners that the european union is leading by example, because we turn our pledges into agreed action and we are on track on a long-term low emissions pathway.
let me now highlight some specific elements of each of the two laws, starting with the effort sharing regulation, or climate action regulation.
this regulation is a crucial instrument to accelerate the low—carbon transition in a number of key sectors of the economy, such as transport, buildings, agriculture and industry, not covered by the emissions trading system.
it notably sets binding national targets covering well over half of the european union’s domestic greenhouse gas emissions in order to achieve a european union-wide reduction by 30% in 2030 compared to 2005. the trilogue agreement, which strikes a good balance between environmental integrity, fairness and efficiency, is the result of a thorough negotiation process that involved difficult compromises.
parliament insisted on an early starting date for the emissions reduction trajectory.
this saves more than 120 million tonnes of emissions over the period 2021-2030, hence it increases the additional effort by more than 10%.
the lulucf regulation sets for the first time a clear quantitative objective, together with a solid accounting framework, for emissions and removals from land use and forests.
the contribution from land and forest in reaching the long-term climate mitigation objectives is critical because of the potential for anthropogenic removal of carbon from the atmosphere.
they have huge potential for climate change mitigation through regional sequestration and storage of co2.
they also have the potential to substitute fossil—based energy materials.
the agreed provisions of the regulation clearly carry the european parliament’s signature, and i would like to offer some examples: mandatory accounting for emissions and the removal of wetlands towards the commitment of 2026, thus completing the european union’s scope for land accounting; the introduction of a safeguard to prevent decreasing the european union’s overall sink; obliging the commission to assess, at the review, the need for additional union policies and measures, and this includes exploring a post—2030 framework in view of the necessary strengthening of greenhouse gas emissions reductions and removals in the union.
more wood products create positive incentives not only for the climate, but also for jobs and the economy.
finally, keeping deadwood in forests will have environmental benefits such as for biodiversity.
i invite you to support both motions and put europe on track to take its place as a champion of climate policy and to lay out our vision for the way this policy will implement the paris agreement over the next decade.
mr president, climate change is a matter of global justice.
fighting climate and empowering the world's poorest people are two sides of the same coin.
and to do that, we need to generate negative emissions from land use and forests, and at the same time protect the right to food and land.
of course, let us not forget that we also had to take into account the rights to land tenure and indigenous peoples, because, again, the fight for climate and global justice go hand in hand.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the commission and this parliament are continuing to take steps towards compliance with the paris agreement and the fight against climate change.
by 2030, emissions from transport, agriculture, buildings and waste management will be reduced by 30% compared to 2015. and this effort is going to be divided among the member states according to their per capita income.
this regulation will cover a number of measures to be implemented by the member states, such as improving forestry and agricultural management, replacing less efficient boilers in buildings, reducing waste disposal in landfills and promoting less polluting transport technologies.
but member states have social, environmental, energy and industrial challenges, and so it is good that we have agreed to give countries different flexibilities in relation to meeting emissions targets.
finally, i think it is very important that forestry removals can be counted in order to offset emissions.
mr president, taking advantage of the fact that commissioner arias cañete is here with me, i have always spoken about fisheries, but this time it is about climate change and the impact of greenhouse gases.
i would like to bring up a very serious problem, which has been mentioned by a colleague, namely the issue of fires and their impact on carbon emissions.
in the case of galicia, asturias and portugal, the forests are carbon sinks, but much depends on the species, and i would like to bring up the eucalyptus problem here.
a few months ago, during the time of the galician fires, we asked the commissioner to prepare a report on the impact of greenhouse gases and climate change on fires, on drought, on species types.
we must continue to exercise this leadership for the fight against climate change, as we committed to at cop21.
only by creating new jobs can we bring about this change project; only with a cutting-edge, intelligent and sustainable economy will we offer a present and a future to our society.
we shall be adopting this first package of directives on waste, packaging, landfills and batteries and accumulators, drawn up by mrs bonafè, next wednesday.
my report on environmental information is a small contribution to paving the way towards the circular economy so that we can make this transition to a new economy more agile and easier for our citizens, our economy and our common project.
i would like to thank, in this my second speech, all those who have worked on the dossier on environmental information, and especially andrés and kristi from the council, stefan and julia from this house, and andrew from the commission, without whom we would not have been able to get it through as quickly as we have.
in the moments before cop21 we all called for europe to take up the international leadership it had been losing in recent years and we committed ourselves to the fact that the progress of our economy had to go hand in hand with the environment.
– madam president, i would like to thank our dear colleagues for their interesting suggestions, and this debate is very timely – not only for our own evaluation of the 7th environment action programme (eap), but even more for the upcoming reflections on the next environmental priorities.
i fully agree with the need for better policy coherence and increased integration of environmental objectives into other policies.
i can assure you that there is strong recognition of the importance of environmental mainstreaming, and i am working closely with my colleagues in the college to ensure that environmental and climate-related challenges are duly reflected in our proposals.
this is particularly important for the common agricultural policy, which needs to do more for water, nature and biodiversity.
specifically on environmental mainstreaming in the future cap, i count on the european parliament to ensure that this will be reflected in the final agreement of the co-legislators.
climate change is threatening the very future of humanity and is increasing the frequency and intensity of many natural disasters.
we are 12 years away from meeting the sustainable development goals: it seems like a long time, but it's just around the corner, and the effort has to be stepped up.
last, but not least, the fight against climate change should play a more important role in development cooperation, and paris commitments should be fully reflected in instruments and programmes.
optimistic, because parliament reaffirms that development aid is intended to eradicate poverty in a context of sustainable development and for nothing else; moderate, because we find it unacceptable that national interests in the field of migration management end up determining the european development agenda.
we also denounce the fraudulent use of these items in the trust funds and we deeply regret the lack of coherence between development and trade policies, because business profit is continually prioritised over the objectives of sustainable development.
the union's cooperation policy and instruments should follow comprehensively the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, the paris agreement on climate change and other relevant international agreements.
it is clear that with these instruments we will live until 2020. but we have to look beyond that and we have to focus on the sustainable development goals at the 2030 frontier.
mr president, president macron, many of us liked the energy you put into your turn to respond, as we liked the praise you gave to the nobility and complexity of democracy - which is a message against populism - and the vindication of the authority of democracy - which is a message against illiberal democracy.
the member states must commit themselves to a radical reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and it is the duty of this parliament to urge them to do so, because otherwise it will be the case that corrupt governments, such as the spanish government, will continue to implement policies which are against the planet and the health of people.
spain is the third country in europe that has emitted more emissions of the so-called kyoto basket in 2015, only surpassed by cyprus and turkey.
climate change is a political challenge, and it involves making important decisions and political decisions; it involves changing the way we understand life, and of course, let's be clear that it's not solved by emissions markets, that's just a make-up.
after a hard debate on whether to include more ambitious targets that would bring europe closer to meeting the paris agreement on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the trilogues have returned a document that puts the brakes on the fight against climate change and the sustainability of the planet.
after a few years of timid progress, the negotiators have not wanted to talk about setting a final binding target, which is essential if we really want to commit to the targets signed at the paris climate summit.
the creation of regulatory bodies and incentives, such as quotas, for equal gender representation in decision-making and management positions are steps in the right direction, as well as the transversalization of content and ensuring a safe environment for women workers.
forced migration is a human phenomenon, a reality as a consequence of armed conflict, terrorism or climate change.
– mr president, i listened carefully to this debate and i thank this house for its support for the difficult work we are trying to do in the un system on the global compacts on migration and refugees, in a global environment that, it is quite clear to all of us, is a challenging one and in particular on issues like this.
the main point here is this: now more than ever, it is clear that the only sustainable, the only pragmatic, the only possible solution, to the war in syria is a political solution.
it is not easy, otherwise it would probably have been successful long ago, it is not easy, but we will work on this in brussels next week, on renewing our humanitarian pledges, which are essential and vital, on the resilience of the syrian people, and on the only way to make our humanitarian work sustainable, which is to unlock the geneva talks.
i think we have to spend the energy, the budget, the strength of our competition when we are united to open a path, not of dialogue - as the high representative has said - but of concrete and direct negotiation.
in the next three years we want to focus it on some priorities, such as economic diplomacy, climate, health, peace and security, and digital issues including cybersecurity.
– madam president, i welcome ms schaake’s report, especially when it comes to reviewing the current external financing instruments, underlining the need to align them with the sustainable development goals and proposing some improvements.
the other areas of dialogue and cooperation established by the agreement are numerous, for example: foreign and security policy, human rights, economy and trade, education, culture, research, innovation, energy, transport, justice and global challenges such as terrorism, climate change, weapons of mass destruction, global governance or development.
i am referring, for example, to climate change, to migration and to the problem of development, all of which are dealt with in the resolution we are voting on tomorrow.
we also have good development cooperation, especially in the pacific, focusing on sustainable development, economic growth and gender equality.
we have also shared interests in tackling key global challenges, such as sustainable development, humanitarian aid and the fight against terrorism.
we work together against climate change and to better manage migration.
we have many shared interests in sustainable energy, climate change and ocean governance.
this morning we were discussing with the president of france, mr macron, the need for the european union to have reliable partners on the political table to deal with global challenges... the commissioner was referring just now to global governance, to its participation - as the rapporteur reminded us just now - in the g20, to the fight against terrorism, to the issue of migration or climate change.
we particularly welcome the renewed alliance to promote peace, sustainable development and fight against climate change, good governance and human rights.
we believe that organic farming must go far beyond the production of organic food; it must also take into account aspects such as, for example, the fact that transport generates greenhouse gases and also energy waste, and we believe that organic farming should not contribute to this.
we do not understand that aquaculture can be ecological simply because fish eat organic food: food waste, faeces and medicines waste that go into the water are a problem which we believe should not be considered as such.
mr president, we who advocate organic production are not doing so merely for the sake of regulation: we are concerned with ensuring that the production and marketing of food does not harm the environment, does not affect our health and is done in accordance with criteria of social justice.
for example, when we exclude artisanal fishing from what is considered ecological and replace it with fish from aquaculture, we are setting a precedent that can be dangerous, because the sea is a common good, it belongs to everyone, and going to sea is a sustainable activity, respectful of the environment and on which the economy of many families and many villages depends.
despite these extraordinary results, the area just mentioned is equivalent to 1.1% of the world's agricultural sector, directly responsible for 15% of ghg emissions, to which can be added the emissions from the manufacture of plant protection products, fertilisers and the entire transport chain, especially intercontinental, on large merchant ships: food production and consumption would be responsible for more than 50% of global emissions.
organic farming is the most effective measure to mitigate emissions, but you have to pay for certifications and audits that raise the price for consumers.
in contrast, none of the negative effects of emissions is reflected in the final price of conventional products, a clear comparative burden for organic production.
in order to develop organic production widely, it is essential to internalize the negative effects of emissions on the environment and health in the value chain of the conventional food trade.
my personal experience is that, increasingly, european union policy calls for tackling issues that only european competition can tackle - say the energy union, say the fight against tax havens or tax harmonization, say the digital agenda... - there are a number of subjects that call for european legislative initiative.
the philippines is the asian country where the most environmental defenders have been killed: forty-one in 2017; many of them in mindanao, the country's mining capital.
on the one hand, i see some really strong points in your proposal, especially on the revenue side, in which you propose to reduce member states’ direct contributions down to 48% through new own resources, some of them with a clear ecological imprint, or by getting rid of rebates, which, of course, is a positive proposal.
when it comes to priorities, may i remind you of what article 2 of the paris agreement says: ‘making financial flows consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas emissions and climate-resilient development’.
we need to deliver much more, and in order to do so we need a budget in which climate-related spending reaches a much higher level than what you are proposing.
are the sustainable development objectives included in this proposal?
but if europe wants to win the future, it cannot turn its back on digitalisation, innovation, the fight against climate change, the energy transition, the new social pillar.
the official message from the european commission is to transition to a low-carbon economy and achieve net-zero emissions by 2050, but the reality is quite different.
while commissioner cañete and vice-president šefčovič stress the importance of reducing emissions, the eib is also committed to financing fossil fuels, spending billions of euros on building infrastructure for these fuels.
this embarrassing institutional funding sends a mixed message to private investors in renewable energy, whose falling prices risk turning the financed infrastructure into stranded assets within a few years.
in the interests of diversification and security of supply, the eu is only securing the fossil fuel business, and it is jeopardising compliance with the climate agreement by promoting the use of fossil fuels, such as natural gas, with worrying leakage rates and a potent impact on global warming comparable to emissions from the burning of lignite, the most polluting coal.
financing fossil fuel investments undermines the opportunities for developing renewable energy and creates uncertainty in a transitioning energy market.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in addition, insufficient emphasis has been placed on public passenger transport, and in particular rail, both for goods and for passengers, which is the most sustainable and least polluting means.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a good one.
it helps to connect us better, eliminates bottlenecks between member states, reduces emissions, combats congestion, improves the combination of transport modes and encourages cross-border cooperation.
i therefore support the reinforcement of the community's capacity to promote this type of investment by raising the levels of support for investment and the application of the use-or-lose principle to clearly identify priorities and encourage them to be implemented within the time limits for completing the transeuropean networks envisaged in the ten-t. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one.
a key element of the report is the recognition of the very important environmental work carried out by the sheep and especially goat sectors, especially in their extensive form, in preserving the biodiversity of many european regions.
this contribution of public goods should be duly rewarded by the establishment of an environmental payment.
this package is in addition to the other package we are working on, the winter package, and in particular the renewable energy directive, which will also set a target for decarbonising the transport sector to promote clean mobility and achieve greater penetration of renewables.
in the light of these precedents, whether we look at article 5 of the tac, which states that other non-target demersal species should be managed on the basis of maximum sustainable yield, or article 6, which states that other companion species should be managed on the basis of the precautionary approach, the effect is that the fishery for the main species will be managed through the most restrictive species, by combining an insufficient tac with the landing obligation.
on a more positive note, i would like to thank all those who have worked on this issue and welcome the establishment of value ranges that are consistent with achieving maximum sustainable yield and also considering socioeconomic aspects and achieving sustainable levels of all populations covered by the plan.
to ensure this, they must focus on the tools to ensure a practical and sustainable management framework which also allows for flexibilities for our mixed demersal fisheries.
it is therefore necessary to ensure that imported products effectively meet sustainability, traceability and food safety standards equivalent to those of the european union.
the eu’s recent free trade agreements include provisions on sustainable fishing, and this in itself is already a great step forward.
but we will continue to work to strengthen our trade partnerships by including legally binding provisions on sustainability.
that is what we want, as well as a mandatory european 'capping' modulated according to jobs, support for generational change and, finally, a cap that supports farmers in the transition to a more sustainable agriculture.
thirdly, a production model compatible with the environment, with the conservation of water, air and soil.
the growing demand from consumers, the market opportunity for producers and, above all, the great advantage as mitigation of emissions from a sector that does not plan to reduce them, make greening the cap not enough, so even objectives for organic agricultural production should be set, as in other sectors of the economy.
it is also thanks to the enormous energy of inea, and we must give it credit.
secondly, we would need urgently synergies between transport and energy, because clean cars are already leaving the factories and buyers do not know what to do, where and how to manage them.
if we want the european union to be the frontrunner in implementing the un sustainable development goals, why is there no clear commitment to that end in the mff proposal?
if we want the eu to lead the energy transition and the fight against climate change, why don’t we set priorities and have spending goals that are more ambitious?
we have the sustainable development goals, seventeen goals that are common to the entire planet.
it will be unable to compensate for inequalities, reverse deindustrialization or promote the energy transition and the production model.
the israeli energy minister's response is that europeans can go to hell a thousand times over.
we care about nicaragua and its people and we are already engaged in the country in support of human rights, education, economic growth and in the fight against climate change.
unfortunately, this policy has been applied in other areas, such as the trade and investment agreement with the union, the trans-pacific agreement, the agreement with mexico and canada, the paris climate change agreement and the nuclear agreement with iran, to which i have just referred.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i would also like to thank angelika mlinar and teresa jiménez-becerril for the working environment created around this report, which will make it possible to improve assistance to victims of crime throughout europe.
and i am very pleased that, thanks to the position we have taken in our group, which has been supported by all and defended by the commission, the new regulations incorporate the higher social, environmental and labour costs borne by our companies - or fortunately borne by them - and that they are taken into account when dumping is calculated.
mr president, since the fight against climate change is a major challenge facing the world as a whole, but also the european union, i believe that the leadership that luxembourg is exercising in the council of ministers to promote an energy transition towards clean energy is very positive and can be strengthened by the addition of claude turmes to the council of ministers.
i ask you whether you do not think that this unanimity is an insurmountable obstacle to fair taxation in the european union, to sustainable taxation with the internal market.
we should protect ourselves from imports in order to have the capacity to build an alternative and sustainable production model.
the european union needs cooperation mechanisms adapted to this reality and to the new circumstances that conflict or climate change may bring.
however, we do have some certainty about the effects of climate change.
they also estimate that by 2050, about 250 million people will be considered climate refugees, words you refused to use.
we insist on the need to establish a european climate change observatory which also serves to recognise the protection status of those who are displaced from their territories as a result of the decisions we take here in a totally irresponsible way.
climate change is one of the biggest challenges we face in the immediate future and we could say we are already fighting it, but we need to know in advance and be able to prevent the consequences.
i am aware that the climate change observatory has not been launched and i think that would be an important initiative, but other initiatives are being put forward that can help us move forward and which i hope will have the necessary support tomorrow.
we must make this fund more responsive to needs and more equitable, better adapted to the per capita wealth of the area, but most importantly also including the value of the environment.
the environment when it suffers also has to be repaired and therefore this fund has to incorporate the economic value that the environment also has.
this is about understanding that gender is fundamental and a key driver in all sectors when it comes to sustainable development.
nor, of course, waste his talent.
the second recommendation is to reduce inequalities, ensure sustainable inclusion in the labour market and ensure a dignified and independent life for young people; further work must be done to ensure that job opportunities are of quality and commensurate with their training.
the third recommendation is that we need to pay attention to all the key areas to ensure a sustainable future, from modernizing education to paying special attention to the mental health of young people.
– madam president, for more than 10 years now, the union’s ecodesign policy has proven to be an effective instrument for improving the environmental performance of energy-related products.
this has resulted in broad support for ecodesign and energy labelling from member states, businesses, consumer organisations and environmental ngos.
this includes, amongst others, political level scrutiny at different stages of the process and the adoption of measures in packages to underline the added value of this policy in terms of monetary and energy savings.
as regards market surveillance, member states clearly need to do more to ensure compliance of products with ecodesign and energy labelling requirements.
the product registration database that we are establishing for energy labelling will also help in this respect.
for example, we are investigating whether a reparability score for domestic appliances could be included in energy labels in the future.
this is not an easy discussion: for example, while a more energy efficient product directly leads to money saved for consumers, a product that is easier to disassemble does not necessarily have such direct benefits.
the commission is however convinced that these challenges can be overcome and that, together, we can enhance our existing policy framework to drive our markets towards more sustainable products and a truly low-emission, energy efficient and circular economy.
in this way we will avoid damage to the environment and reduce manufacturing costs.
we must learn from our mistakes and come up with more firm and concrete solutions, which in turn will be a powerful tool against climate change.
transport is responsible for a quarter of eu ghg emissions.
since 2013, despite warnings from the scientific community, emissions from this sector have been growing steadily, threatening the achievement of the goals of the paris agreement on climate change.
as it is not subject to emissions trading, it is the states that have to develop transport policies to reduce emissions, but little or nothing can be done with economies heavily conditioned by the automobile industry, on which up to 10% of gdp depends.
without penalties in europe for misrepresenting emissions and with governments and the commission fearful of job losses or relocation, even the least ambitious targets are falling short.
the new measures adopted to reduce emissions from combustion engines will be of no use without a genuine commitment to the electrification of freight transport in all its aspects.
mr president, the development paradigm we have chosen to maintain our identity as a union, to maintain our global leadership and our social model, is based on sustainable, smart and inclusive growth.
the challenges facing the union cannot be met without an education system better adapted to a global, changing and competitive environment.
ladies and gentlemen, aquaculture in the european union provides sustainable, high-quality products to the consumer, and our european sector is one to be proud of.
among them are the lack of available sea space for their activities or administrative obstacles, particularly those arising from licensing procedures, or the competition that exists on the world market, combined with insufficient information to the consumer about aquaculture products from third countries, as regards their quality, environmental footprint, social conditions, fish welfare, or the bad image that citizens sometimes have of aquaculture, and so on and so forth.
the european commission published a communication in 2009 focused on building a sustainable future for aquaculture.
in 2013, it published a report on the strategic guidelines for the sustainable development of aquaculture in the european union.
we must simplify administrative procedures, ensuring the sustainable development and growth of aquaculture through spatial coordination planning, enhancing the competences of aquaculture in the european union or promoting a level playing field for operators in the european union and exploiting their competitive advantages.
madam president, the administrative complexity and lack of transparency of the licensing procedures mentioned in mr iturgaiz's report can be an excuse for implementing processes, an excuse for complementarity, which replace small-scale fishing and even sustainable aquaculture.
the administrative complexity of the report, which is hampered by the demands of society, means that my people have risen up against the galician plan for aquaculture which mr iturgaiz's party wanted to promote and have risen up because it was going to replace our productive activity and therefore we do not want large marine industries but rather sustainable fishing.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
mr president, it is very good news that we can finally guarantee an efficient system for monitoring and reporting emissions from heavy duty vehicles.
we need european legislation that really fights air pollution, that goes towards the practical elimination of combustion engine vehicles, which are precisely the main cause of this type of pollution.
mr president, i would really like the rapporteur to explain to us how the promotion of the local economy and sustainability is compatible with aquaculture laws such as the one his party, the partido popular, wanted to promote in galicia, for example.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the introduction of new technologies.
and it's that the blue economy, like the green economy, doesn't seek to promote, doesn't focus on the sustainability of resources, but rather, quite the opposite, on how to continue doing business with them without considering that they are limited.
sustainable aquaculture can under no circumstances become the perfect excuse to give greater cover and favour to large companies.
sustainable aquaculture means investing in local economies and family businesses, promoting responsible consumption and reducing food waste.
aquaculture, finally, provides high quality products with high sustainability and consumer protection standards.
mr president, i would like to express my support for the report 'towards a sustainable and competitive european aquaculture sector' by my colleague carlos iturgaiz.
according to the international atomic energy agency, two-thirds of the centrifuges have been destroyed, 95% of the enriched uranium is out of the country and the arak nuclear reactor is inoperable.
this is not only about trade: it is about human rights; it is about the protection of the environment; it is about sustainable development and culture; it is about energy and workers’ rights.
our updated agreement will not only aim to strengthen our economies, it will also protect our workers, our trademark products, and our environment.
it should also fully reflect the transformative nature of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the role of international development cooperation in achieving the sustainable development goals.
but not just any agreement, an agreement such as this parliament is calling for, one that is ambitious, comprehensive and balanced, that strengthens dialogue and cooperation in the face of the global challenges we share, in scientific and technical cooperation, in the face of climate change, in defence of human rights, in defence of the rights of indigenous peoples and, of course, gender equality.
the european union should modernise this agreement, but modernise it in order to respect the rights of the mapuche people and to stop the abominable practices of some european multinationals, which contribute to deforestation and pollution of mapuche lands and which push their inhabitants into extreme poverty and marginalization.
and the categorical anecdote is called: the expulsion of the atlantic trade treaty, which we were negotiating; the rupture of the iran agreement; the rupture of the agreement against climate change... and the last one has been the intolerable contempt in the g-7, which even reaches personal offense.
madam president, to talk about the circular economy is to talk about taking advantage of what we have, a regenerative concept that allows savings and also advances in environmental protection.
it is good that funds to boost the circular economy are integrated into cohesion policy, as waste management is a municipal and regional competence.
the europe 2020 strategy has helped to advance this area by promoting smart specialisation, support for innovation and measures to protect the environment.
this will lead to more money for sustainability, much better management and, thanks to the european union, our towns and cities will be able to make the transition to a circular economy model a reality.
because making key sectors of our economy more sustainable is investing in the future, or, which is the same thing, is leaving a better world for future generations.
solidarity, feminist or ecological economies have proposals and practices that are very useful for this systemic change towards the circular economy, but they also imply political changes.
to talk about circular economy is to talk about energy and food sovereignty, social equity and people's health; it is to talk about transformative municipalism; to recover the lessons of the rural world, in which nothing was wasted; it is to reconnect the countryside and the city; it is to talk about local consumption.
thirdly, to cooperate with them in the pursuit of the sustainable development goals.
industry remains undeveloped despite its wealth of natural resources, inequality continues to increase, food security is a pipe dream and violations of human rights and the environment by our european companies continue to occur with total impunity.
we must put the agreement in the context of the 2030 agenda and the paris agreement on climate change.
i believe that the agreements between the european union and the acp countries have not contributed to the development of these countries because they perpetuate the situation of poverty and misery, because they seek only cheap raw materials, low labour costs and lax environmental regulations and open, yes, the borders so that multinational corporations can trade these products with reduced or zero tariffs.
this proposal will ensure the availability of the data that only farmers can provide for planning and monitoring the common agricultural policy, as well as for climate change, environmental and other important european union policies.
comparable and flexible, modernised european agricultural statistics of high quality are also important for a fair single market and sustainable growth and, in general, for a better understanding of our rapidly changing world.
the human rights situation of indigenous people is extremely precarious in many countries and we see a rapid rise in the incidence of land grabbing, with increasing violence against indigenous rights and environmental defenders.
therefore, in 2017, we stepped up our support for indigenous peoples, and for human rights defenders working on land, environment, biodiversity and climate, through the european union human rights defenders mechanism.
implementing the principles of sustainable and responsible governance of land is key to stopping land grabbing, but we believe, too, that full implementation of the un guiding principles on business and human rights is relevant in this context.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
for the first time, a woman, a human rights and environmental activist, and above all, an indigenous woman.
it is time to recognize the multiple rights violations that the indigenous poor are suffering from: land grabbing of course, severe impacts of climate change and also the abuses of big corporations including european ones.
our companies, our products, our investments cannot have the slightest connection with the human and environmental rights violations of indigenous peoples.
it is imperative that we do not waste time and the european commission should be fully involved in the legally binding international instrument of the united nations.
through its external strategy against early and forced marriage, the union reaffirms its commitment to universal values, while recognising that the mere legal prohibition of forced marriage does not in itself guarantee an end to these practices, due to the complexity of the social, political, ecological and economic factors involved.
the commission fully shares parliament’s view that addressing climate change is a collective responsibility at global level and requires a continuing shared commitment to multilateralism.
for europe, dealing with climate change is not only a matter of political responsibility and multilateral engagement but also a matter of security, prevention of conflict, and stability around the world.
those principles were reaffirmed during the second edition of the ministerial on climate action, co-hosted by the european union, together with china and canada, in brussels on 20 and 21 june.
in addition, on 22 june, high representative and commission vice-president mogherini hosted an important event on climate, peace and security, at which, as a european union leader, she was both congratulated and further called upon by international leaders.
the european external action service and the commission are committed to deploying maximum political and diplomatic efforts to integrate action on climate, security and development, enhancing the european union’s already strong, proactive voice on the global stage.
as acknowledged in your report, 2018 is a crucial year for international climate action.
talanoa is also the theme of the european union climate diplomacy weeks in 2018 and presents an opportunity for the union to showcase its model for low-emissions transition in a way that empowers more ambitious engagement from state and non-state players in order to help our partner countries implement the paris agreement.
this is but one of the several initiatives on climate change that the union is carrying out in various regions of the world through its sustainable development and cooperation instruments.
a number of those initiatives, such as the global climate-change alliances, help address trans-boundary climate-related issues through dialogue and negotiation, thus supporting the climate diplomacy objectives.
the report also rightly acknowledges that climate diplomacy plays a vital role in global security.
climate security has become one of the most important parts of our climate diplomacy, and the need to strengthen our efforts, to avoid climate change becoming a serious threat multiplier, is widely understood in our partner countries.
the commission welcomes the recognition in the report that effective climate diplomacy requires leadership at home as well as action at international level.
we all reached a political agreement on the key pillars of the 23rd climate and energy framework and this will allow the european union to reach beyond our, at least 40%, emission-reduction contribution under the paris agreement.
as a next step, the commission will put forward a vision for the european union long-term greenhouse emissions reduction strategy by november 2018. it will provide a clear vision of how to have a truly decarbonised european economy and will give a clear direction of travel, to ensure we have the right investments in place.
the european union and its member states also continue to contribute their fair share to climate finance, remaining the largest donor of public climate finance by population: eur 20.2 billion to climate action in developing countries in 2016. during this year’s climate diplomacy weeks, the european union’s delegations around the world will, together with member states’ embassies, be communicating their success stories.
they will be showcasing the european union’s strong track record in domestic implementation through effective climate policies.
president, honourable members, let me conclude by thanking parliament once again for this comprehensive report and for your strong support for european climate action.
the fight against climate change, which the european union has been leading since before the great agreement of cop21, is impossible to achieve if we are not able to involve everyone - and you know this well, commissioner, who was just talking about multilateralism.
it will be of little use for europe to have a strategy to combat plastic waste if we are not able to explain its need and force the co-responsibility of the rest of the global actors.
we must be key players in the fight against climate change, as i say, and we must also be able to understand that this will not be a fight we win alone, but with the international community at all levels, because it is a problem that affects us all.
there will be no country in the world that will not be affected by climate change and no one will solve it alone, neither the most developed nor the least, but we must also be aware that the damage of climate change will affect more people in countries that do not have the means at their disposal to mitigate the effects of climate change.
for thousands of people, tackling climate change is the difference between living, running or dying.
the main point is that all the external policies of the european union should include climate issues in their agenda and have economic and human backing.
initiatives such as this must also be emulated in horizon europe, which will thus see its commitment to climate change strengthened.
i therefore welcome this own-initiative report and hope that climate diplomacy will be reflected in all european union policies, and especially in the support and introduction of technological advances to combat climate change.
although denied by some members of this and other forums, the evidence of climate change is overwhelming, with anomalies becoming more frequent and harmful.
the fight against climate change is a global task.
climate diplomacy should therefore be used to put compliance with the climate agreement ahead of any other eu trade agreement with third countries, in particular to avoid giving non-signatories or non-compliants an advantage in trade relations.
in this sense, it is not necessary to go to the pacific to implement climate diplomacy, as many member states will fall short of the 2020 emission reduction and renewable targets, and our poorer baltic neighbours, even within the energy union, plan to burn lignite without any internalisation of the co2 emitted.
i think of climate change, of terrorism, of the management of migration flows... the latter is a serious challenge to which the european union has not yet found adequate solutions.
if we don’t approach countries of origins and don’t address sustainable development by converting sustainable development from a mantra into real projects, we are not going to succeed.
that is why the financial perspective under discussion - the multiannual financial framework - is a good opportunity to focus on protecting europe more, to make the necessary policies and to tackle the new challenges we face, such as the fight against climate change, immigration, the technology industry and the common european defence.
mr president, volkswagen, iberdrola, gas natural fenosa and abengoa, all companies of the european union, have been accused of violating human and environmental rights in latin america.
mr president, we believe that the most important aspect of this report is the reference to the gender perspective in climate diplomacy, especially the mention of indigenous and farming women, because they have a very close relationship with the land, they have specific knowledge of natural resources and they are leaders in family and organic farming.
their knowledge base must therefore be enhanced in the fight against climate change.
while members of this house debate climate change clauses in free trade agreements, there are millions of people out there shouting at us that there is a structural contradiction between capital accumulation in fewer and fewer hands and the sustainability of life.
we must also reduce the power of the energy lobbies and the multinationals which often decide and speak for many of our governments.
it is cynical to call a crisis of immigrants a crisis that is one of poverty, of ignorance, of religious persecution, of climate change, of disease, of oblivion, of femicide, but not of people.
therefore the commission sees some merits in the rapporteur’s proposal on dedicated parking areas where drivers could spend rest time in a comfortable, safe and secure environment.
some amendments, however, are very restrictive and could discourage cabotage – with a negative impact on the efficiency of logistics networks and the environment.
it is, however, possible to find a way forward and i feel that, if we stay at the table and talk and negotiate, we have a chance to move on and to give european citizens and businesses what they need in order to stay competitive and fair, to contribute to climate-change action and, of course, to continue developing their operations.
but it is necessary to create an environment - as it has become clear - that is more suitable for improvement and for growth.
we need to provide resources to increase expansion, to increase competitiveness, to improve the environment and to continue to generate employment and economic activity.
my question, mr prime minister, is whether you think that the future of europe - competitiveness, security, climate change, the fight against tax fraud - can only be achieved from within a single state, with that song that you have sung to the nation, to the state; whether you do not think it is more reasonable to tackle these great challenges precisely together, building the european union of the future together.
in any case, the agreement we are concluding raises questions, because forecasting debt sustainability between now and 2060 is obviously part of an exercise in prediction, but really with little firm economic basis.
the content and priorities do not match today’s most pressing challenges, especially when it comes to internal and external security and climate change.
the union is facing major challenges, such as unemployment, the ecological transition or humanitarian reception, where it seems clear that the council, unfortunately, is not going to do anything useful, as we have seen in recent weeks.
and what sustainable development is this budget talking about?
let's see: they reduce spending on biodiversity, research, climate change, and increase spending on fossil fuel or defense infrastructure.
wow, wow, that doesn't sound very sustainable to say the least!
terrorism is fought with sustainable development, with integration and social cohesion, with the redistribution of wealth, as the resolution we are voting on today clearly states, not with militarisation.
development aid should not be conditional on its complicity in the union's nefarious migration policy, which should focus on achieving the sustainable development goals.
in my role as an alternative rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, i tried to make clear the need for the life programme funds, which will be allocated to the construction of this body - some four and a half million - to be used for activities of the solidarity corps relating to the environment.
we have moved forward with projects and investments that make greece a commercial, transit and energy hub in the wider region, but, at the same time, we have proved that there is a way out of the crisis without breaking the social fabric.
but at the same time, we have achieved primary surpluses, which, three years ago, no one would have believed, because we have controlled rampant tax evasion, we have stopped waste and party corruption in public health and public procurement, because we have made major reforms, such as the integration of social security funds and the rationalization of the social security system.
and today, not only have we gotten out of the memoranda, but with the sustainable regulation of public debt, we are regaining our economic sovereignty and regaining our rightful place in the european process.
despite all the problems of instability and nationalist upheaval in turkey, we have kept channels of communication open, preserving peace in the aegean, promoting cooperative solutions to the refugee problem, initiating talks for a just and sustainable solution to the cyprus problem.
we must support the prospect of a better europe with european solutions to european challenges, to refugees and migration, to climate change, to security, to democratic reform of the eurozone, to hope overcoming fear on the far right.
their efforts and sacrifices have laid the basis for this sustainable upturn.
what has happened this year in greece, and last year in portugal and spain, shows us that the european union must take a leadership role in the face of the challenge of climate change.
climate change has a lot to do with what's happened.
- that we do not have a priority agenda for reducing emissions and being more effective in this european leadership in the fight against climate change.
because we all want to walk fearlessly in the streets, to enjoy the same freedom and peace of mind as men in the workplace and to exercise politics without having to play out in a hostile and sexist environment.
china's collaboration is obviously very relevant to successfully tackling global challenges, for example, climate change.
a europe that is able to tackle climate change.
we advocate leading the fight against climate change, but this year emissions have increased, and the resources we're going to provide to fight climate change are healing.
a european union that is a leader in the fight against climate change and in the modernisation of our production systems.
a european union that is a leader in the fight against climate change and in the modernisation of our production systems.
a european union that is a leader in the fight against climate change and in the modernisation of our production systems.
a european union that is a leader in the fight against climate change and in the modernisation of our production systems.
a european union that is a leader in the fight against climate change and in the modernisation of our production systems.
a european union that is a leader in the fight against climate change and in the modernisation of our production systems.
a european union that is a leader in the fight against climate change and in the modernisation of our production systems.
madam president, the objective of pension systems should be nothing other than to guarantee our elderly people adequate income levels, ensuring the overall economic sustainability of the system.
because these three issues - employment, state capacity and inequality - impact the sustainability and equity of our pension system.
i do not want to say that pensions are not sustainable, but rather that pensions are essential to sustain life.
privatization is not the answer to the sustainability of the pension system.
mr president, the scientific community agrees that the consumption of plastics is seriously endangering the environment, and you will have seen that in the summer.
the citizens of the union are becoming increasingly aware of the environmental effects of this material, which is encouraging the necessary change in habits to move forward in a necessary revolution.
this same environmental awareness is driving technological initiatives that will focus plastic packaging design on circularity rather than recycling.
a movement that will drive innovation and create sustainable wealth and jobs.
we also have advanced waste legislation, and we know that designing one that will regulate the secondary raw materials market, implementing quality standards and stimulating change with tax measures, is the next step.
the single-use plastics we use may be cheap, but what you don't see -- and that's the problem -- is the price we pay, our health and the environment.
plastic waste in the sea is a big problem.
eighty percent of the garbage in the sea is plastic, microplastic, so abundant that it's already part of our ecosystem.
madam president, protecting the environment is essential to guaranteeing the future.
this is a lot, a lot of waste on our part and very little recycling: less than 30%.
it needs concrete legislative initiatives from the commission, initiatives that stimulate the economy towards a transition of businesses towards the circular economy, a sustainable economy.
mr president, according to the european environment agency, transport accounts for one third of europe's final energy consumption.
so talking about an agenda for the future of mobility in europe is - or should be - without any doubt, talking about sustainable and smart mobility, less polluting, safer, more accessible and also more affordable.
promoting sustainable mobility in road transport involves reducing co2 emissions, and a clear commitment to electric vehicles, with clean batteries and the use of renewable energy, where efforts are just beginning.
we have seen how the fourth railway package was passed in this parliament, which is a liberalisation and in a way an attack on the train, which is the most sustainable and safest means of transport we have.
to speak of sustainable mobility is also to take into account the social impact of transport at the different territorial levels, the need to structure the rural territory, to engineer new forms of collective transport.
and of course, urban areas are the places where co2 emissions are most concentrated and it is necessary and urgent to bet on greener, more sustainable, more human mobility, promoting the bicycle, promoting putting the pedestrian in the center of cities and designing cities in such a way that the use of public transport is encouraged to connect with other territories.
the positive impact that better mobility will have on them, with more humane and sustainable development, is already one of the key factors in good governance and sustainable development.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report of mr pavel poc, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the application of regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 concerning plant protection products (2017/2128 (ini)) (a8-0268/2018).
we all share the same belief in achieving the goals regarding health, the environment and food safety.
i assure you that we are committed to working towards greater transparency, increased trust and more a sustainable system of food production.
in addition, the 'environmentally toxic' exclusion criterion should be developed in detail, which, as has been shown in the case of neonicotinoids, does not seem to count, since, although extremely harmful to the environment, the use of these materials is legal.
the commission should establish a clear definition of endocrine disruptor and a detailed description of the environmental toxicities of plant protection products.
i said that when i presented it, but it needed to be aligned with the challenges that health technologies, access to health and sustainability of health systems really present.
i think that the agreement we reached in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is a good agreement because of how balanced it is, because it is patient-centred and because, in turn, it is respectful of the member states which, through the health systems, have to provide the right to access to health, a fundamental right.
i believe that this proposal, especially with the amendments and the proposal made by parliament, will improve quality, improve and align medical needs with research and, moreover, contribute to the sustainability of health systems; in short, improve the access of european citizens to medicines and new health products.
we need to be able to develop applications in energy networks, healthcare, education, supply chains, creative industries, public sector.
we cannot ignore the crucial issues of data protection, cybersecurity, the opportunities for new avenues of fraud it offers and its environmental impact.
madam president, madam commissioner, unfortunately we have to denounce once again that the rural environment is neglected, with regard to funds, quality public services, communications and adequate policies to combat depopulation.
rural, mountainous and remote areas should be taken into account in the reform of cohesion policy, for population fixing, which should be the main objective, through the provision of quality public services, the guarantee of energy supply and infrastructure or socioeconomic dynamism in a sustainable way at all levels.
madam president, the whole of society benefits from the fresh water that flows from the mountains, from their biodiversity, from the landscape and even from their resources, but public administrations only devote resources to maintaining and developing these areas.
on the contrary, they are indulging in all kinds of environmental aggressions that pollute, that damage the landscape and that drive people away.
this is why it is urgent to adopt strong policies that foster development by giving priority to agro-ecological-based agricultural activity with strong public support for the people who live there and it is urgent to secure quality public services for all people.
in the face of this, we need an ambitious european strategy, with a new approach in which demographic change and the ecological transition play a central role.
it's clear to me that the rural world can be the spearhead of an ecological and just transition, employment intensive and low carbon, with less industrial agriculture and macro farms and more ecological, local and extensive agriculture, with less coal and more renewable energy, with less corporate monocultures and more economic diversification.
the price is set on the basis of the hourly price of electricity on the market of energy suppliers.
this is energy poverty, cold and a reduced quality of life.
energy is a basic commons in which there is a lot of business and it should be forbidden to cut the light.
firstly, to find out what the working conditions are like for the more than ten thousand spanish european citizens living in the gibraltar field who cross the border with gibraltar every day; secondly, to find out what measures will be put in place to prevent gibraltar from remaining an illegal money laundering and capital evasion centre - a tax haven; thirdly, to prevent tobacco and other goods - which i have not mentioned - from being smuggled from gibraltar into the single market every day; fourthly, to stop the toxic discharges from the colony which damage the ecosystem of the bay of algeciras; fifthly, to jointly manage the airport.
the results are expected by the end of next year, 2019. to conclude, the european union is committed to continuing a discussion with a view to finding feasible and sustainable solutions to the existing protection gaps, on a basis that ensures a true level playing field for all.
these are just a few examples of how transnational corporations violate human rights and destroy the environment with impunity.
they have frequently ignored labour rights, in some cases violated human rights, altered or destroyed the environment or exploited the weakness of the workforce, in some cases child labour.
in addition, no other sector has made environmental progress or investments since 2005 as the automotive sector has done.
however, the introduction of a malus penalty system, as approved by the committee on the environment, is neither appropriate nor in accordance with the principle of technological neutrality.
mr. president, fighting climate change is not an option.
and so reducing emissions in a sector which produces a quarter of the european union's is also an obligation.
and we have to find the right balance between industry, which generates economic activity and employment in countries like spain, which are very important, and the obligation to reduce emissions.
so we have to meet paris and we have to pursue an ambitious reduction in emissions.
mr president, commissioner, i have always believed in the need to preserve jobs while ensuring the improvement of the quality of the environment.
because there is no fight against climate change if you fight against industry, behind the back of industry or without industry.
it is paradoxical to argue about whether the industry should reduce emissions from new cars by 30, 40 or 45% from 2021, when the reality is that in china there are almost 500 electric car manufacturers and 9 of them each produce more than 7,000 vehicles a week that tesla manufactures, or when the government of india has on its agenda 100% new electric vehicles by 2030, which will save it more than 60 billion us dollars in oil imports and 1,200,000 fewer deaths from pollution, and that without counting the huge health costs that it entails.
for our part, in europe we are discussing absurd percentages without any ambition, while industry is again caught in flagrante delicto manipulating emissions, but this time upwards so that, as if by magic, emissions would be reduced beyond 2021 after the imposition of the regulation we are discussing today.
the climate needed for reform has deteriorated due to the secret protocols between the prosecution and the intelligence services.
mr president, i thank the house for its support for the report and i would ask that it be referred to the committee on the environment to begin interinstitutional negotiations.
mr president, i would like to express my pleasure at the adoption of the dalli report on emission control, which is a milestone in the contribution of the road transport industry to the fight against climate change.
this transition means a reduction of 1% in jobs in this sector, but it means the creation of tens of thousands of new, more sustainable jobs in industry.
universal basic income is a response to these challenges and, above all, it is a great opportunity to bring our continent together after the 2008 crisis, to give it a new fair and sustainable impetus and to be, again, an example to this world.
the commission is not concerned whether the states adequately represent the position of cities and regions, the environment in which people live, the level at which services are provided and the integration of the new europeans is forged, person by person.
a contribution of demography, talent and vital energy that our ageing continent needs.
this is a waste of available opportunities and resources.
whenever we talk about climate change, most of the speakers (especially the commissioners with family members with swiss accounts) say that europe must be at the forefront and blah blah blah.
the ipcc report, which came out two weeks ago, confirms that the european union will not meet the target of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees celsius.
fortunately, there are people who are already doing things: social movements for climate justice are setting us the high ambition that is required, and the municipalities of change in spain are the ones who are implementing the most climate change adaptation and mitigation measures right now.
only with that commitment and that action can we fight climate change.
this is climate change.
climate change is already here and it is our task to set and implement the measures and targets to reach the limit of one and a half degrees of global temperature increase.
madam president, the fight against climate change is an obligation, and it is even more so when we are constantly witnessing droughts, fires and floods - such as those that have just occurred in my country, spain.
that too requires leading by example, and it would be good if the european union set itself a more ambitious target for reducing emissions by 2030. it is possible - after what we have done with the energy efficiency directive and the renewable energy directive - to at least go for a 45% emission reduction target.
it is therefore necessary that we at this climate summit show that determination and that ambition to take steps and for the european union, once the united states has left us, to maintain that firm and determined pulse to combat climate change.
thus, programmes related to some of our priorities – youth employment, research, biodiversity and climate, development cooperation, neighbourhood – will be reinforced, bringing the budget closer to the priorities that were agreed here in our march resolution.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in fact a policy of the member states.
it asks us to work on climate change mitigation and to make more direct use of it and to eliminate unnecessary plastic.
the result is the dumping of plastic waste into the high seas with images that we've all seen.
we share the commission's objective of reducing plastic waste at sea and the concern about its breakdown into microplastics.
as with other environmental issues, the european union cannot solve the problem alone.
we also need consumer environmental education and cooperation.
the properties of plastic have made significant improvements in food quality, transport, medicine and construction possible, but at the same time they are creating one of the main problems facing humanity alongside climate change.
the lack of waste management policies for separate treatment and the lack of co-responsibility of packers has brought us to the current point where almost half a ton of plastic waste ends up in the oceans every second, and the amount is increasing at an alarming rate.
under the pretext of making affordable products available to consumers, no one pays for the environmental costs that this waste generates and will continue to generate for centuries, in the form of microplastics.
but the spanish government must also take action, guaranteeing a stable energy model that prevents abusive electricity prices, fixed through auctions.
there are many measures that can be taken in the energy sector, but the most beneficial for industry and citizens would be for this strategic sector to be in the hands of the public authorities.
madam president, we could spend the little time we have left lamenting the mistakes we have made, or we could turn our efforts to giving back the soul that is missing from the union project, with a europe with a strong social pillar that advances social rights, a minimum wage framework, decent pensions and decent wages; a europe that is a leader in the fight against climate change, as a matter on which to waste a single minute would be a grave irresponsibility; an egalitarian europe that does not give up on eradicating violence against women and that tries to unlock legislative initiatives such as women on boards or, for example, the equal treatment directive.
ministers from all 28 member states have confirmed that, first of all, any sustainable political solution to the venezuelan crisis has to be democratic and peaceful, and those are the two pillars that are guiding our action.
we have the last chance to establish this permanent and structured mechanism of respect for the rule of law, do not waste it!
mr president, the problem of plastic waste in the seas and oceans is a problem that we can all see in our daily lives.
the european commission has finally taken note of the pollution caused by these plastics, but time is running out.
prohibition measures are taken when we have other alternatives that are much more sustainable.
therefore, those that are not sustainable will be banned.
secondly, the labelling must indicate the negative environmental impact and the presence of this plastic in the product.
smart mobility, more sustainable and guaranteeing the free movement of people and goods in the internal market.
we are also committed to taking into account the level of vehicle emissions when setting prices and i believe it is of course essential - and i have expressed this in my amendments - that the revenue generated by this route should be used directly to improve infrastructure.
this measure will improve road safety, impact employment and accelerate the development of smart infrastructure and more sustainable mobility.
to take advantage of the great economic, social and ecological opportunities of the paris climate agreement, we need much more ambitious measures and involve the whole of society.
trying to whitewash dirty energy with misleading labels is not helping to take action on the big climate challenge.
that is, to lead, as barcelona, madrid or valencia, in spain, for example, to lead the energy transition, the fight for the climate and for cleaner air.
the objectives of this directive are clear: to reduce pollution, to eliminate greenhouse gases and to promote clean and non-polluting road transport, both public and private.
this means increasing the efficiency of vehicles with the aim of reaching zero emissions as soon as possible, but also the environmental commitment to recycling the material used in the production of vehicles and reusing them.
the automobile industry's excuses, such as the different maturity of the vehicle market, for avoiding environmental requirements are not acceptable.
madam president, today we can say that europe is responding to the challenge of climate change.
the agreement reached in june on the directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources is a great agreement.
for a number of reasons: firstly, because we are going to double the current rate of renewable energy and go beyond that, i have no doubt, in the review of 2023; because we are increasing legal certainty and simplifying administrative procedures, which are crucial to guaranteeing investments; or because we are increasing the share of renewables in highly polluting sectors such as heating, cooling or transport.
europe is often accused of being aloof, out of step and not listening to its citizens, and today we can proudly say that europe has not only listened to them but has put them at the heart of energy policy.
we have done so by enshrining for the first time the right to self-consumption, that is to say, the right to produce, the right to consume, the right to store and the right to sell the surplus energy produced.
we have done so by committing to extend the benefits of renewables to the most vulnerable citizens, contributing to the fight against energy poverty.
and we have done this by pushing for just energy transition measures so that those territories where the weight of coal was very important can have a just transition process, that they understand that no one leaves them to their fate.
the commitment to renewables is a commitment to innovation, it is a commitment to economic activity, it is a commitment to quality employment in a sector where europe has the basis to regain world leadership, and it is a commitment to our own energy sources to become more energy independent.
yes, one of the pillars of the energy union is precisely to strengthen our energy independence.
europe must be ambitious and therefore raise its commitments at the next climate summit by giving a sign of leadership and above all by giving a sign of commitment to the world, especially now that the united states has left the paris agreement.
and if these achievements have been possible, it has been because of the climate of mutual trust, teamwork and commitment of the whole negotiating team of parliament and also the commitment of the commission and, very singularly, of the alternative rapporteurs - kelly, federley, tamburrano, henkel, paloma and turmes - and also of the colleagues in the committee on the environment, led by mr bas.
– madam president, it is a real pleasure to be here today to discuss three files which are central for the clean energy for all europeans package.
the european union needs to assert its leadership and, by giving the files under the clean energy package its strong support, this parliament can play an important role in making this happen.
closing these files strengthens the european union position as one of the most active leaders in the energy transition process and helps raise our collective ambition.
they will set a stable and predictable legal framework for the way forward and enable us to make this major transformation for the economy and society – the clean energy transition.
let me now say a few words about the three different dossiers, starting with energy efficiency.
the key element in the agreement is that it sets a new headline energy efficiency target for the european union for 2030 of at least 32.5%, with an upward revision clause by 2023. thanks to the european parliament, we now have an ambitious outcome for 2030. the changes will also extend the current annual energy-saving obligation beyond 2020. this is a measure that has been a key driver in the progress made in recent years.
‘energy efficiency first’ is a key principle of our energy policy.
the agreed text includes a number of tangible benefits for consumers, such as possible savings on their energy bills, improved living conditions and improved air quality.
last but not least, energy efficiency measures also represent an important instrument for alleviating energy poverty.
let me turn now to the renewable energy directive.
here again the position of the parliament delegation was instrumental in securing a higher target for 2030. the text foresees a new binding renewable energy target for the european union for 2030 of at least 32%.
in broader terms, the revised directive further ‘europeanises’ our approach to renewable energy, creating conditions for a cost—efficient deployment of renewables across the european union.
for consumers, it establishes a clear and stable regulatory framework on self—consumption – for the first time in european union legislation – which i believe will encourage more and more households to become actively involved in the clean energy transition as consumers.
while the revisions of the two directives will provide further impetus for investment in renewables and energy efficiency – the two major elements contributing to reducing greenhouse gas emissions – the governance regulation establishes the process, ensuring member states achieve this in a coherent and the most efficient way possible across all dimensions of the energy union.
the new regulation requires each member state to prepare an integrated national energy and climate plan for a 10-year period, starting with 2021 to 2030. this unique tool will allow assessing progress in achieving the energy union and our targets as it will, for the first time, encompass all relevant policies and measures of member states and the results of regional cooperation.
the commission may then make recommendations on the plans aimed at ensuring, in case of deviations, that the european union meets the 2030 energy and climate targets in the most coherent, collaborative and cost—effective way.
the european parliament and the council will address, on an annual basis, progress achieved in the energy union in all dimensions of energy and climate policy.
i must underline that the rules fully respect member states’ choices in determining their own energy mix.
but it brings a fair and robust mechanism to facilitate the collective attainment of the binding european union renewables target, the european union energy efficiency target and the 15% interconnection target, while also considering research, innovation and competitiveness.
for the sake of completeness, let me recall two declarations made by the commission during the negotiations: our commitment to analyse methane emissions, while at the same time preserving our right of initiative; and on the importance of a clear division of competences within the future two committees assisting the commission in the implementation of the regulation, which we would have preferred to be in one single committee.
the adoption of these three dossiers will mean that we will have finalised half of the clean energy for all europeans package and set our main energy-related targets for 2030. the fact that the targets agreed are higher than those originally proposed by the commission means that we can probably achieve even steeper emission reductions by 2030. our latest modelling suggests that meeting these targets will de facto enable a reduction of emissions of roughly 45% across the european union by 2030, going beyond the 40% paris agreement commitment.
we are making progress on the other clean energy dossiers – regarding electricity market design, including risk preparedness – and i am optimistic that, with the same ambition and constructive approach from all sides that we have shown on these files, we can conclude these before the end of the year under the austrian council presidency.
taken together with other parts of the package, i am convinced that these changes will have a positive impact on our quality of life and ultimately lead to cheaper household energy bills.
similarly, negotiations on the low—carbon mobility package are advancing and we hope to conclude the files under this parliament.
you will also be aware that the commission concept for the next multiannual financial framework will put climate—related spending at the heart of our budget.
as well as raising the ambition for climate, including clean energy transition mainstreaming across all european union programmes from 20% to at least 25% from 2021 onwards, we are looking to boost the level of spending in all the main budget areas, notably research and structural investment.
one of the main legacies of this commission and this parliament will be that we have put climate change and clean energy transition at the heart of our agenda.
statements by the commission(in writing)proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources (recast)“ the commission notes that both co-legislators have agreed on article 4 with the content going beyond the general principles of the commission proposal com(2016) 767 final.
”proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the governance of the energy union amending directive 94/22/ec, directive 98/70/ec, directive 2009/31/ec, regulation (ec) no 663/2009, regulation (ec) no 715/2009, directive 2009/73/ec, council directive 2009/119/ec, directive 2010/31/eu, directive 2012/27/eu, directive 2013/30/eu and council directive (eu) 2015/652 and repealing regulation (eu) no 525/2013 commission statement on methane on article 16 the commission notes the agreement of the co-legislators relating to article 16 by which a strategic plan should be presented for methane.
the commission confirms its commitment to analyse methane emissions, notably in the context of the union's long-term strategy.
commission statement on article 44 the regulation on the governance of the energy union is central to the clean energy for all europeans package.
this regulation aims to set out the process ensuring the ambition and coherence of policies and measures which are taken at various levels for the achievement of the energy union objectives and, in particular, the 2030 eu climate and energy targets.
in their joint declaration on the eu's legislative priorities for 2018 - 2019, the three institutions committed to delivering on the objective of an ambitious energy union with a forward-looking climate change policy, notably by implementing the 2030 eu climate and energy framework, by continuing to follow up the paris agreement, including through legislation on clean energy for all europeans.
to avoid the tremendous consequences of climate change and to reap the enormous economic, social and ecological benefits of complying with the paris climate agreement, we must be realistic, that is, ambitious.
that is, to reduce our emissions by 55 percent by 2030, as this house has proposed, and to achieve net zero emissions by 2040. any long-term strategy of the european commission has to be compatible with limiting global warming to 1.5°c.
cop 24 is just a month away, and europe has the capacity and the responsibility to lead the global climate ambition.
and for this, the potential of citizen energy is fundamental.
let us make europeans the real protagonists of the energy revolution, by betting on a model that is democratic, fair, sustainable and decentralised.
madam president, there is no denying the positive aspects of the directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources in terms of renewable energy communities, self-consumption and support measures, among others.
the remainder of the 'efficiency and governance' package has unfortunately not delivered the same result and will therefore be insufficient as a whole to meet the objectives set out in the paris agreement and to curb the serious consequences of climate change.
the authoritarian agenda sees the defense of the environment as an enemy to be beaten and nature as a resource to be mined.
we have a short time to reverse this situation, and renewable energy is part of the solution in a just energy transition process.
they are important because they put europe on the path to meeting the paris agreement and the sustainable development goals.
the climate summit must urgently raise the targets to mitigate the consequences of global warming.
it is urgent because, as the ipcc has just stressed in its latest report, climate change is a reality with very serious consequences for ecosystems, human health and the economy.
the third legislative package regulated energy efficiency and the development of renewables during a decade in which there were many european leaders who were climate change deniers.
it is no longer disputed that we are the cause of climate change, but if the ipcc recommendations are ignored, which, although they warn of the serious consequences that emissions will have, it is not planned to achieve the reductions necessary to limit global temperature to +1.5o.
85% of the primary energy consumed in the world comes from burning oil, coal and gas, which according to the imf receive more than €4.7 trillion in annual subsidies.
while the energy governance regulation will ensure that renewables and efficiency targets are met, avoiding past mistakes, without compliance planning, and without adjustment mechanisms, more ambition and conviction will be needed from our leaders if we are to be a global leader in the fight against the greatest threat facing humanity.
but for the european union, the ultraperipheral meetings are extremely important, and i quote the president of this parliament, mr tajani, because they are an opportunity to verify the scope of article 349 in the future of europe, in the multiannual financial framework, in energy and neighbourhood policies, in the transeuropean networks and, above all, in employment.
finally, it is very important that the conquest of the future does not dilute, much less destroy or set back the traditional policies of the european union for the primary sector, that it does not diminish posei, which is vital for this dimension of the primary sector in the economic, ecological and social fields.
that is why it is important that the democratic clause be guaranteed, that it can be controlled, reviewed, and that civil society organizations and indigenous defenders of the earth and the environment can denounce its breach.
the expenditure on migration, cooperative self-sufficiency in security and defence, the strengthening and europeanisation of development cooperation and the fight against climate change, but also the fight against poverty and the indebtedness of society and citizens, therefore need a counter-budget draft such as the one presented today.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
inequality and climate change are the biggest challenges we have to face in the next decade.
because we believe in the european union project; because what we are defending are budgets for the europe of the future, for innovative agriculture, for reducing inequalities between regions and between people, for making the union a welcoming land, for being an example in the fight against climate change, for being at the forefront of research or cultural creation and for being, also, the haven of fiscal justice.
we need to manage better, sure, but we also need more money to tackle social and environmental challenges.
the climate and energy transition cannot wait.
progress on sustainable development cannot see more delays.
the mff should be a medium-term plan, a plan that would serve to consolidate the political lines and principles we want to defend - which in my opinion should be equality, social justice, the fight against climate change or internal cohesion - and this can only be achieved with a flexible framework and without placing a ceiling on own resources and expenditure, which are increasingly constraining us towards a future of more austerity.
we must remember that humanitarian crises are not atmospheric phenomena, but are the product of our policies.
although we have created a structure and environment for the next decade of european telecoms, our work is not yet done.
madam president, commissioner, i too welcome this proposal, which is being put forward for the first time, because heavy vehicles account for 6% of emissions, they are increasing and ambitious targets for reducing emissions in the european union also need to be set.
we need the necessary adjustments to account for emissions avoided by certain combustion of renewables and we need a system of reasonable fines.
madam president, the decarbonisation of the transport sector is key to meeting the objectives of combating climate change, and we need to act in this sector in a special way because of its difficulty in reducing emissions and its volume, which represents a quarter of the european union.
ladies and gentlemen, society is demanding that we breathe clean air without pollution, and this is particularly acute in our cities, in the large urban conglomerations.
it is the most sustainable, the safest, the one that allows for greater territorial spinach and accessibility.
sustainable multimodality - with bicycle access to the train - is also needed, but so are urban connections.
it is committed to more sustainable mobility, always reserving space for bicycles, and the rights of people with disabilities are improved.
madam president, commissioners, i would like to begin by thanking commissioners arias cañete and šefčovič for the commission's rapid response to the fight against climate change following the publication of the alarming un report.
today, on the eve of the katowice climate summit, the european union must renew its leadership and commitment in the fight against climate change, and i wish you equal success in that regard.
by 2020, member states and the main co2 emitters must participate and provide the commission with all the information available so that, together with this parliament, they can decide on the best strategy to achieve such a high objective, which, in my view, involves a determined commitment to renewable energy; technological neutrality; close collaboration, therefore, with the main actors in industry, innovation, research; improvement in energy efficiency; and further implementation of the circular economy at all stages of the production process.
madam president, commissioners, the commission has taken a good step forward by proposing climate neutrality by 2050. however, i see in this proposal the same dance of dates and figures as when you, commissioner arias cañete, have to answer about when your family's offshore accounts were closed.
how can we believe them when we have just adopted totally inadequate renewable energy and energy efficiency targets which are either wet paper or need to be revised upwards, as our group has already called for?
climate change, commissioners, is already affecting millions of people, including many europeans, so please be consistent.
madam president, commissioners, thank you for your proposals, but i am afraid that none of the scenarios proposed by the commission are really compatible with limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees in time, and that cannot be, because under those scenarios southern spain could become a desert and the next climate refugees could be the andalusians.
the un climate experts are saying that.
with just a few days to go until cop24, we are missing out on the opportunity to lead the global climate ambition.
if donald trump doesn't believe in climate change, and the eu doesn't lead by example, tell me who else is going to do it.
the s&d group supports a net zero-carbon economy by 2050, but calls for action for a just transition.
in this sense, the spanish social democrats in the european parliament welcome the european commission's proposal to end greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, but keeping in mind that we must ensure that the transition to a net zero-carbon economy benefits all citizens and does not create new inequalities.
social democrats have led the legislative work in the european parliament to achieve ambitious legislation on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
however, a global vision is needed to ensure a sustainable society and to lead an ecological transformation that goes hand in hand with a reform of economic governance and social policies to ensure that this is a just transition for all.
the s&d group supports a net zero-carbon economy by 2050, but calls for action for a just transition.
in this sense, the spanish social democrats in the european parliament welcome the european commission's proposal to end greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, but keeping in mind that we must ensure that the transition to a net zero-carbon economy benefits all citizens and does not create new inequalities.
social democrats have led the legislative work in the european parliament to achieve ambitious legislation on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
however, a global vision is needed to ensure a sustainable society and to lead an ecological transformation that goes hand in hand with a reform of economic governance and social policies to ensure that this is a just transition for all.
the s&d group supports a net zero-carbon economy by 2050, but calls for action for a just transition.
in this sense, the spanish social democrats in the european parliament welcome the european commission's proposal to end greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, but keeping in mind that we must ensure that the transition to a net zero-carbon economy benefits all citizens and does not create new inequalities.
social democrats have led the legislative work in the european parliament to achieve ambitious legislation on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
however, a global vision is needed to ensure a sustainable society and to lead an ecological transformation that goes hand in hand with a reform of economic governance and social policies to ensure that this is a just transition for all.
social democrats support a net zero-carbon economy by 2050 and call for action for a just transition.
in this sense, the spanish social democrats in the european parliament welcome the european commission's proposal to end greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, but keeping in mind that we must ensure that the transition to a net zero-carbon economy benefits all citizens and does not create new inequalities.
social democrats have led the legislative work in the european parliament to achieve ambitious legislation on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
however, a global vision is needed to ensure a sustainable society and to lead an ecological transformation that goes hand in hand with a reform of economic governance and social policies to ensure a just transition for all.
but these are the bases for moving forward, and to move forward it is essential - as you said, commissioner - to modernise the wto to meet the challenges we have to face and to provide solutions, such as digital trade, the objectives of sustainable development, and the standardisation of labour rights.
and i'll end by telling you that goal 5 of the sustainable development goals was about empowering women.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, the life programme is one of the most emblematic programmes of the european union and the only one which exclusively finances actions in the field of the environment.
firstly, the protection of biodiversity and protected areas.
secondly, support for farmers to adopt increasingly sustainable farming practices.
thirdly, support for the outermost regions in the life programme: given the high value of biodiversity in these regions, the programme should explicitly include them.
for my part, i would like to stress the importance of the programme increasing its financial allocation and continuing to support the protection of the natura 2000 network, and in particular of priority natural ecosystems, species and habitats, over the period 2021-2027.
mr president, commissioner, the life programme is one of the fundamental pillars for protecting our natural environment and for making progress in adapting to climate change.
a climate change, against which this week from cp.24 in katowice we must conjur and lead the necessary changes to keep the temperature rise below one and a half degrees.
with the new life we must improve this good tool we already have; facilitate access to these funds at all levels of governance, from local authorities, which are the first window of access for citizens, to the member states themselves, and with special attention to environments that are potentially most affected by climate change, such as the mediterranean islands; and finally simplify their access, as mrs schrijer-pierik said.
in the last century, the contribution of sludge to the delta has been greatly reduced by the construction of dams along the river, with the consequence, on the one hand, of its sinking, and on the other, the entry of sea water, which directly affects the balance of this unique ecosystem that is a biosphere reserve.
further to the provisions on transparency, and to ensure the long—term sustainability of efsa’s high level of independent expertise, it is proposed that member states will be represented on the efsa management board.
i believe that the proposal which has come from the committee on the environment responds precisely to these consumer needs with a firm commitment to the protection of human health and the environment.
the ultimate objective is human health and the environment, and that is what i am calling for.
and we see it every day: the differences on the climate issue, on the trade issue, on the issue of, for example, relations with iran or china.
on the one hand, it declines to establish health and environmental standards to prevent electromagnetic pollution.
on the other hand, it continues to finance co2-producing energy and technologies, while still upholding the absurd principle of neutrality.
ladies and gentlemen, we know that liquefied natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, is going to be in the energy mix in the short term, but to be neutral in terms of promoting technology or infrastructure, i think it is to cheat the loner, because in a few years zero-emission energies are going to be the ones that prevail.
thirdly, it is obvious that it will strengthen the climate criteria for projects, which prevents us from complying with the paris agreement, and on top of that it will continue to finance macro-structures that are widely rejected by the population, such as the tunnel under the alps for the tav between lyon and turin.
the ecm is not just about transport, a sector that generates more than 20% of greenhouse gas emissions and causes almost half a million premature deaths in europe from pollution.
the ecm is also energy.
the commission is therefore planning to spend a further €70 billion on gas and fossil fuel infrastructure with emissions equivalent to the combustion of petrol, but which is more like coal combustion, given the leakage it produces, and is 80 times more potent as a greenhouse gas than co2 itself.
this is in contradiction with the recent commission communication on the european strategy to achieve climate neutrality, where the presence of gas is minimised in the scenarios put forward by the commission itself to achieve the paris targets.
i also welcome the introduction of the social sciences and the humanities, and of course climate reinforcement.
i think the commission has made a commitment to this parliament, particularly in view of the possible major cut in the cap, and i think it is very important that if we want to help sustainable and competitive agriculture, the 'horizon europe' programme should accompany it.
and to offer them a better future, we have to guarantee them quality jobs with decent wages, and that can only be achieved if we are able to compete in the global environment, and that requires more innovation, more science, more research, but it also requires two considerations that i want you to keep in mind.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is based on the principle of proportionality.
we believe that taxation can help to achieve general policy objectives in the field of environmental protection or energy policy, in the rural sector, and financial transaction tax, energy tax or climate tax are examples of this.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to make a proposal to the council to amend the directive on the protection of the environment by means of a directive on the protection of the environment.
we must be clear that infringement proceedings should not be prolonged in matters of protection of fundamental rights or environmental or health rights, for example.
the report underlines the strong concern of europeans and europeans about environmental issues, water, air quality in our cities, but also issues such as railway safety.
i would like to thank the members of the committee on industry, research and energy for their massive vote in favour of the report on the establishment of the digital europe programme for the period 2021-2027. this vote also reflects for us the importance and necessity of this programme for the future of our citizens, our businesses and our european leadership.
but this agreement is very much like the ttip that was being negotiated with the united states, or the one that was signed with canada: all of these agreements where multinationals have more power than states through arbitration tribunals, where public services have been privatized or where our environmental standards are useless when japan is one of the main markets for timber from illegal logging or protected species fishing.
mr president, the connecting europe facility promotes an energy model at the opposite end of what we need in this time of climate emergency.
far from stopping funding fossil fuels, this mechanism will continue to finance the misnamed natural gas, which will continue to receive billions of euros when we know that its effects on the climate are very, very harmful.
nor does this fund put the principle of energy efficiency first, which is what we should be doing by reducing our consumption first rather than promoting infrastructure whose justification is more than doubtful.
mr president, the connecting europe facility promotes an energy model at the opposite end of what we need in this time of global climate emergency.
far from stopping funding fossil fuels, the misnamed natural gas will continue to receive billions of euros, when we know that its effects on the climate are very, very harmful.
nor does this fund put forward the principle of energy efficiency, which we should apply by reducing our consumption first rather than promoting mega-infrastructures whose justification is often more than doubtful.
we are in favour of a europe of peace and of the ecological transition.