estonia was also successful on environmental and energy issues, agreeing on an emissions trading system, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and all electricity market legislation under the fourth clean energy package.
the commission also adopted a communication on the implementation of the eu's new strategy for the environment (2007-2013) and the eu's new strategy for the environment (2008-2013).
if we do this in a holistic way, if it is part of our circular economy, if it is part of the fourth industrial revolution and the benefits it brings, we will lead in the world and make sure that the health of our children and grandchildren will not suffer and our environment will not suffer more than it already does as a result of the waste of plastics.
why don’t we recycle more packaging waste, plastic bags and waste?
you are right that bio products can be an alternative source for producing more sustainable plastics, but we need to get this regulatory framework right.
but even more money is available in private sector if the regulatory environment is right, and that’s why we have to concentrate on this part of our work.
i must say that i could not blame china at all when they decided to ban plastic waste imports.
it’s actually a good incentive for europe to find solutions, sustainable solutions.
how to deal with plastic waste.
it will change the market, and this is what we need: a sustainable market where profit is coming from more sustainable behaviour.
i welcome the commission’s strategy to address the usage of plastic in europe, where 25 million tons of plastic waste is generated every year, of which only 30% is collected for recycling.
we eat plastic, we breathe in plastic in the environment.
we need an ambitious goal to save the next generation from drowning in a new ocean of waste.
the resolution calls for adherence to the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development to combat gender-based violence and for attention to be paid to the problem, in particular in areas such as health, social work, asylum procedures, education, law enforcement, child protection and media and communication.
the original idea behind the clock was to save energy.
years later, there is no evidence of significant energy savings, but there are examples of how this affects other areas of people's lives, based on studies and polls.
regarding the energy market, yesterday the british prime minister declared that there could be no business as usual with russia after their apparent use of chemical weapons on uk territory.
it is not about differences between the council and commission legal services; it is about protecting eu common interests, exercising our energy solidarity in practice and preventing mr putin from undermining eu security and unity on such vital issues.
i am glad as well that the youth employment initiative, erasmus, research and climate will lead these future negotiations because it was about time to acknowledge that our climate action goals are falling short and it is about time we engaged decisively to achieve them.
there is one thing we have to be very clear about: there can be no sustainable peace without accountability for the crimes committed.
in such a highly competitive and economically challenging environment, young people are often willing to do internships after internships and therefore it is easy to take advantage of young people by offering them work experience but at the same time unfavourable or even non-existent compensation options, unrealistic working hours and conditions and so on.
the unilateral actions of the us undermine this much-needed alliance and also the international legal environment.
the international community must do its utmost to find a sustainable approach to the tragic situation, but the myanmar authorities should bear in mind that ethnic cleansing does not go without punishment.
climate change is having an increasingly significant and serious impact on various aspects of human life and the geopolitical situation.
given the eu's leading role in combating climate change and the objectives of the paris agreement, it is important that the eu has a clear understanding of how to better shape climate diplomacy in the international environment.
it is also important to address the causal link between climate change and migration.
now, let’s multiply it by the number of migrants and you will see how climate change is related to all sorts of crises – which the budget needs to address sufficiently.
the fact that a hundred years ago there were twice as many forests in estonia shows that our forestry system and ethics have not been sustainable.
we should put an end to the hypocritical practice of producing renewable energy by burning wood in a wood-fired boiler, and even more so to the marketing of this as an environmentally friendly energy source to other countries with a lower than expected share of renewable energy.
aside from its environmental impact, the burning of high-quality wood to ashes also has its own economic detrimental factor - this wood could be used in other sectors in a more sustainable but also more profitable way.
it is true that one of our targets will be the synchronisation of our energy market with the centre of europe and, of course, digitalisation, which was a cornerstone during our presidency, is still one of our most important themes in relation to unity and good cooperation between the member states.
some words about what mr bullmann said: i agree 100% about sustainable development.
it is so important here to strike the balance between the environment, the economy and the social sphere.
now, some more about our environment.
estonia has more than half of its territory covered by forest and we take sustainable forest management very seriously.
estonia is meeting all the european climate goals: that was a priority during the presidency, and my government has a 50% renewable energy target.
we care deeply about the environment today and about what we leave for our children.
we are on track with climate policy and energy efficiency goals and estonia has already reached the renewable energy goals for 2030. as regards the soviet union and the eu, i think they are at 180 degrees in terms of difference: having lived under the brutal soviet regime, i strongly reject any comparison with today’s or, for that matter, tomorrow’s european union.
i heard carefully the commissioner and i appreciate his sympathetic approach towards climate change.
there is a climate of violence and total impunity.
moldova has made some progress, for example in the financial sector and in the energy sector, but unfortunately there has been a rather regressive development in democratic values.
i don’t understand the people who are shouting against the efforts of the united nations – which is a forum for global governance – to organise the global response to geographical, climate—change, economic and other realities.
let me here recall the need to find a suitable, sustainable solution for the continuation of the work of the special prosecutor’s office.
i have been impressed by the energy and efforts invested by the government to strengthen good neighbourly relations, in particular with the bilateral treaty with bulgaria and later on with the name agreement reached with greece.
the media environment has clearly improved but the progress has been modest and more should be done to free especially the investigative press from internal and external influences.
cooperation will be enhanced in a number of areas, such as foreign and security policy, migration, climate change, cyber threats, etc.
but the budget – parliament set up some priorities – science, youth, smes, the climate, real causes of migration, and defence and security – the latter is the well forgotten ‘old aspect’ newly in our budget, and i am very pleased that we finally are moving on that area, be it military mobility, be it stratcom in the external action service, etc.
of course, we know very well that there is a dangerous situation now due to the climate in winter time.
this is happening against the background of countrywide popular protests, which have continued throughout 2018. i can only quote amnesty international’s latest report seven days ago, which says: ‘iran is in the grip of a multifaceted crisis that is rooted in the confluence of severe political, economic, environmental and human rights problems.
[...] in response, the authorities have been widening the net of repressions.’ it is not any more about small groups of protesters, but about widespread strikes by truck drivers, teachers, environmental activists, workers, students and national and religious minorities, who stand up against the dramatically worsening economic and social conditions, against corruption and political repressions.