mr president, climate change has been on the agenda so often that now that we have to act, we have to be ambitious.
firstly, the directive on energy efficiency.
it's the most painless way to save energy efficiency!
the ambitious 35% target is in line with the energy performance of buildings directive, which we completed in trilogues just before christmas.
emissions need to be reduced now and in the long term!
when we talk about energy, don't be so down on talking about electricity.
yet we still have to tackle the almost 40% of transport emissions and energy consumption.
sustainable bio-products and biofuels therefore now have a role to play in climate action.
we will be managing forests with lulucf and we must therefore support sustainable forest management as part of climate action.
the itre baseline also provides a good definition of sustainability for new biofuels.
mr president, it is important that we set the 2030 targets with sufficient ambition, but also with realism, and above all that we make the european energy market more efficient, more transparent and more market-oriented.
i would now like to highlight two points relating to the renewable energy directive.
firstly, finland and sweden are the leading renewable energy countries in europe, thanks to their large forestry industry, precisely because we are efficient in using industrial waste streams, waste and residues for renewable energy.
now the environment committee wants to impose new limits on the energy use of wood.
it is still good that wood can be used efficiently when it is not otherwise suitable also for energy.
the second question concerns sustainable biofuels.
the renewable energy directive is one of the most important eu measures to achieve significant emission reductions.
we, the legislators, decide on climate action, but the real climate work is done by europe's citizens and businesses, from small to large.
for this reason, climate policy must be consistent and far-sighted.
getting companies involved in climate work and creating new innovations requires that we don't change the rules of the game every few years.
one important part of the renewable energy mix is bioenergy produced from wood-based biomass.
it is absolutely essential that this parliament should support the sustainable and responsible use of wood.
the sustainability criteria for the energy use of wood shall be based on national forestry legislation.
the most important thing to remember is that achieving climate goals requires breaking the dependence on fossil fuels.
climate change is happening much faster than scientists have been able to model.
to mitigate climate change and achieve the paris agreement, europe and the world need to do twice as much and set twice as ambitious targets.
the eu's climate policy initiatives on renewable energy, energy efficiency and the governance of the energy union are at the heart of europe's response to this challenge.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the eu's energy policy.
parliament has already made a number of progresses in the revision of the renewable energy directive.
the report proposes, among other things, to raise the target for renewable energy from the 27% proposed by the commission to 35%.
ambitious targets like this are essential to mitigating climate change.
the raw materials used to achieve the target level of renewable energy are relevant.
the use of coconut oil as a feedstock for biofuels is not climate-sensitive.
we should be critical of raw materials which, when used directly for energy, release large amounts of carbon into the atmosphere.
i hope that the waste hierarchy will be applied to the use of forest biomass.
for example, wood can be used first for higher-processing products, where it binds carbon for a longer time, and only then for energy production or biofuel.
in a circular economy, the application of the waste hierarchy is not problematic.
this does not mean a total ban on the use of forest biomass for energy and biofuel, but the objective must be to make sustainable use of forests from a carbon perspective.
i would like to see a greater emphasis on clean transport, clean energy, the fight against climate change and concrete actions on the circular economy.
it would cover overfishing of fish stocks, marine conservation areas, action needed to preserve biodiversity, combat acidification and chemicalisation of the seas.
we know that marine litter is one of the biggest and growing environmental problems, and that a big factor is plastic.
every year, tons of plastic waste end up in the sea, and plastic bottles and plastic bags are a big part of it.
madam president, we just had the debate about climate change, climate justice and women, and as shadow rapporteur of the report, i would like to underline two facts that were raised in the discussion already.
firstly, climate change is not gender-neutral.
they are a huge resource in solving climate change issues.
what we need to do is empower women, and that means carrying out gender-impact analyses in all the climate and economic policies, developing the concept of climate justice, ensuring parity in decision-making, be it by delegations or other decision-making areas in climate change, and then of course in their private lives in their consumption choices.
– mr president, trade and sustainable development chapters in our trade agreements are relatively new, but we already have some experience from agreements with korea, colombia and peru.
primacy of human rights, social rights, as well as climate agreements, environmental questions, should be the norm in eu trade agreements, and the sustainable development chapters are definitely a great addition, but i believe that without legal enforcement, they lack teeth and here i disagree with epp and ecr speakers who seem to be talking about a more kind of soft way.
it could also be incentives when things go well in terms of social protection and environmental norms.
i believe that we can no longer afford to continue putting environmental and social considerations into a second class category.
environmental and social obligations need to be on an equal footing with commercial interests.
the eu must also be accountable for its actions, and this is the core idea of the agenda 2030, the sustainable development goals, which are universal.
only on the basis of a functioning market can sustainable competitiveness be built without the continuing massive monetary policy stimulus of the ecb.
written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the report by julie girling, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec to promote cost-effective emission reductions and low-carbon investments (com ((2015) 0337 - c8-0190/2015 - 2015/0148 ((cod)) (a8-0003/2017).
the vote will take place on tuesday 6 february 2018.
the next item is the report by mr jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the acceleration of clean energy innovation (2017/2084(ini)) (a8-0005/2018)
at this point, i regret to inform you that the evening has progressed to the point where i cannot grant catch-the-eye speaking engagements.
in particular, the improvements with regard to transparency, to tax justice and climate spending are very positive outcomes.
let’s be honest: this means good, sound development policy, eradication of poverty, combating other global challenges and the eu and agenda 2030 sustainable development goals really need to be internalised and understood properly by the european investment bank (eib), especially if it wishes to have a more prominent role in eu development policy.
i would also like to see the energy lending criteria be very much taken care of.
we need to make sure that the paris climate agreement is implemented.
we are very happy – it could have been better but it is already very good – that we have the 35% climate-proofing mentioned in that decision.
mr president, summertime is a historical relic of the 1970s, when savings were sought in the face of rising energy costs.
now, we can see that these energy cost savings are very marginal.
we know that the idea of moving the directive and the clocks back in time was to save energy.
however, energy efficiency and technology have advanced greatly since then, and today it is known that shifting clocks does not provide the energy saving benefits mentioned, but instead numerous studies show how much harm it causes to human health, the welfare of domestic animals, agriculture, road safety, etc.
it is good that attention has been paid to the disproportionate negative impact of climate change and its consequences on rural women and girls.
the proposal states that there is a direct link between gender inequality and environmental pollution and that rural women can contribute to the transition to sustainable and ecologically sound agriculture.
the environmental dimension is one reason why gender equality needs to be promoted outside our own local area.
the eu should show leadership in respecting gender equality and in ensuring a high level of protection of fundamental workers' and environmental rights in trade policy.
all eu trade agreements must include an ambitious and feasible chapter on trade and sustainable development.
i consider the reform in hand to be relevant, particularly with regard to road safety and the environment.
when we can share good practice, then we can do good work for the customers and for the environment too, so let’s find solutions with the enabling way.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
mr president, a healthy environment is a prerequisite for all well-being.
the eu has made commitments and set targets in climate and environmental policy, as well as in sustainable development.
and now a few words from outside the environment committee: i think that the 1% and 3% funding levels proposed in the report are unrealistic.
these include measures to reduce air pollution such as fine particulate matter, basic research to promote science or the promotion of robotization to reduce health and elderly care problems.
mr president, the conflict minerals regulation was adopted one year ago, but its requirements will start to apply only as of 2021. whilst we are eager to hear what steps and measures the commission has taken, there are already some very good initiatives coming from the member states, and i am happy to announce that finland and sweden just this week announced that together they would prepare a sustainability certificate that would cover the whole supply chain – mining, production, use and recycling of minerals.
this is an excellent initiative because the supply and sustainability chain should not end with the consumer, but should also take into account the reuse and recycling of minerals.
electric cars and other new consumer products are increasing the demand for rare minerals every year and not just in europe, but worldwide, so this is a golden opportunity for the eu to set standards for sustainable risk-free supply chains and due diligence requirements.
the energy efficiency of buildings directive now takes this into account, but it is also a good practice to try to bring the most comprehensive network possible to these core networks, urban areas and suburban areas.
transport emissions account for a staggering quarter of our greenhouse gas emissions, so we need really radical action in the transport sector in all member states.
this is part of the reason we have rules so that climate responsibility is also taken into account in forestry.
but as the previous speaker also said, this allows for the emissions from other sectors to be taken into account in the growth of the forest.
i would therefore like to ask whether you also see a role in forest products actually being able to replace fossil products, plastics with bioplastics and many other products that cause emissions.
for example, producing cement for building houses is much more climate-friendly than building wooden houses, and to get wooden houses, you need to manage forests, and the rest of the biomass from the economic forest can be found in many different uses, if we do the bioeconomy right in the future.
we know that forests are of great importance in combating climate change.
europe's forests capture up to 10% of all greenhouse gas emissions.
it is important that the european union promotes sustainable forest management both in europe and in the rest of the world.
now we have reached a conclusion which offers the possibility of continuing the forestry business, provided it is done on a sustainable basis and provided that the forests are maintained as carbon sinks.
today helsingin sanomat, the biggest newspaper in finland, has a headline saying that the waste basket of a normal finnish family contains up to 80% of recyclable materials which are not recycled.
mr president, the current consumption patterns are totally unsustainable from an environmental point of view and the end of the road is in sight.
producers must be obliged to pack their products in a way that causes the least possible impact on the environment.
greener design, production and use of packaging would significantly reduce the amount of waste generated, and we must therefore steer development in this direction.
forests are renewable natural resources, and the products processed from them provide an environmentally sustainable alternative in many cases, and should therefore be promoted for product development in this area.
– the adoption of the waste package is an important and welcome step in the right direction.
we cannot afford to waste precious materials, as is now happening.
we need a waste hierarchy that can act as a strong catalyst for the move towards a circular economy.
we need separate waste collection, including optical sorting to make use of materials to their highest possible value and to feed them into new processes, closing the loops to ensure high quality resources maintain their value throughout the recycling process.
ultimately, what we must aim for is to design out all waste, and have products that are upgradeable, reusable, repairable, and recyclable.
the waste directives now adopted and more stringent recycling targets can significantly boost the circular economy.
efficient recycling and reuse of materials reduces environmental impact and emissions, while ensuring better availability of raw materials.
it's not just about the environment and health, it's about the economy.
the growing environmental awareness of consumers is also driving companies to look for solutions that are both cost-effective and environmentally friendly.
each year, the european union generates some 2.5 billion tonnes of waste.
although less than one tenth of this is municipal waste, it is a challenging part of waste generation and treatment.
only five percent of plastic waste ends up properly recycled and 40 percent ends up in landfills as mixed waste.
plastic production is estimated to triple globally by 2050. the new targets now adopted require member states to recycle at least 55% of municipal waste by 2025. in addition to metals, glass, paper and bio-waste, separate collection will be introduced for plastics and, from 2025, for textiles.
as we know, there are already major differences between member states in the recycling and recovery of waste.
written declarations (rule 162)
mr president, mr president macron, i thank you for your speech and also for the activity, passion and energy you have brought to the european debate.
on the contrary, in these difficult international times, it is important that europe takes a stronger role as a global leader, promotes peace and stability, is active in trade agreements and promotes cooperation based on international commitments and agreements, including in the fight against climate change.
the diesel emissions scandal has made the problems of vehicle type approval and market surveillance known.
we would now have had the opportunity to correct all the problems of type-approval and market surveillance that were brought to light by the emissions scandal and that were identified in the emis committee of inquiry.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
mr president, organic production is a key environmental issue in addition to agriculture, and so i would like to stress, with a view to the future, that the competence of the committee on the environment should be equal to that of the committee on agriculture in preparing and deciding on these matters.
and the third is, of course, the greenhouse/land question for the nordic countries, which can be quite an unreasonable outcome for tomatoes and cucumbers.
this is a decision by the committee on industry, research and energy to enter into negotiations on the basis of the report by mr buzek concerning common rules for the internal market in natural gas.
although the new digital environment has made the situation worse, this is not a phenomenon created by social media.
it is very good, mr president, that the commission is now finally taking up this matter of reducing transport emissions, because we know that transport is the only sector where emissions have only increased, and as transport volumes continue to increase, that means that now we need really big reforms for the whole transport sector.
while we are developing vehicle technology, it is important to continue to promote renewable, alternative fuels.
the cfp clearly sets out that all fish stocks shall be fished at sustainable levels before 2020. the north sea map, just like the previous one for the baltic sea, unfortunately includes provisions allowing for fishing efforts up to f upper, under certain conditions.
as we are discussing sustainable finance next, what would be crucial is to add the cost of not acting and not regulating.
quite often in environmental and climate cases, people do see the cost if you have to invest or regulate or de-invest, let us say, away from diesel cars.
but, then again, there is no comparison with what the huge cost of climate change will be if we do not act, and i hope this can be added in the future.
mr president, the question of sustainable finance is not the cherries on top of the cake.
i dare say that this is the biggest change in financial markets since the application of general accounting and auditing principles, and indeed the auditing should take place in integrated reporting based on those indicators that go in parallel with financial reporting, having all the major environmental impacts taken into account.
it is a question of having a review of financial regulation and the pervasive incentives sometimes, be it in fiduciary duty of investors, be it mifids, be it the duty for credit raters to grade the environmental risks and in basel for the banks to reserve higher capital buffers for environmentally-risky investments.
mr president, there can be no sustainable finance unless there is transparency of the supply chains of the companies and here, one of the very interesting actions in the action plan on sustainable finance was to assess the need for due diligence reporting.
indeed, sustainable finance and responsible business conduct are possible, but if we want it, we just need to make decisions that are ambitious enough and we have no time to waste.
this report asks the commission to add collective redress procedures to next year’s comparative exercise because it is a major legal tool in strengthening consumer, environmental and health protection in the european union.
mr president, the commission is proposing a more sustainable budget and a higher level of climate finance.
the next budgetary period must be in line with the paris agreement and the un sustainable development goals.
farmers are important implementers of eu climate and environment policy.
as demands and pressures increase, there is no way to cut agricultural funding and this also leads to the failure of the eu climate agreement.
we are so concerned about the rule of law and the rights of citizens: we cannot waste time.
women's participation in economic activities is important for sustainable economic growth.
madam president, 80% of the environmental impact of products is decided by design.
so already, when the first ecodesign directive was launched, there was a great debate that it should not be only energy but it should cover all product classes and all impacts on the environment.
i like that we find stricter social, physical and psychological health standards for the personnel and that we have also included environmental and climate protection in the annexes to this regulation, as are social standards.
you don't measure the actual emissions or allow a little tinkering with the equipment.
now we have the opportunity to get information on both fuel consumption and co2 emissions.
when this is combined with municipal type approval and real emissions at the time of driving, we can say that we have the tools to combat climate change.
i believe that funding is the key to the best way to achieve our climate goals.
the big question for europe and the world is how to make economic growth sustainable in terms of quality and to curb the consumption of non-renewable natural resources.
at the same time, we are also supporting the vitality of rural areas in a sustainable way.
the second main objective, a greener, carbon-free europe, is a great opening and creates a framework for integrating the circular economy more strongly into european regional policy, but we have to look further.
the next commission's agenda should therefore be a circular economy 2.0, where sustainable forest bioeconomy, bio-cyclical economy and the shift away from plastics, which pollute our seas, among other things, are taken more seriously than at present.
madam president, in this cohesion fund period, the circular economy was indeed not embedded among the finance priorities, and because of that we have used quite a lot of the money on the wrong courses with good intentions, namely, funding the construction of landfill and incineration while we already have an overcapacity of waste incineration in europe.
indeed, we are still financing waste incineration, which should be brought to an end as soon as possible.
in the future, only the projects that support the circular economy, sustainability and social inclusion should be financed from the cohesion fund.
however, the impression was given that you were reserving a small role for the european parliament and the union, a kind of mini-europe, when you mentioned that perhaps there would be a role for common european issues in climate change.
the european parliament, for its part, has proclaimed human rights as a cornerstone and has also stressed the promotion of equality and the fight against climate change.
firstly, a clear reference to the new sustainable development goals and aligning the partnership agreement with them and measuring them against them.
the third is to promote a circular economy, starting above all with a zero-waste society.
this is particularly necessary for children and young people whose home environment does not provide the conditions or opportunities for them to be exposed to a wide range of culture and art.
– mr president, oleg sentsov’s case illuminates the terrible lawlessness and repressive measures and climate of impunity that permeates the illegally-occupied crimea today, and we should not spare our words calling for the release of oleg sentsov and the other 158 russian political prisoners.
mr president, only last week i had a chance to co—organise in brussels a photographic exhibition about climate change refugees.
the faces, and especially the eyes, went really deep into my emotions, and being a north european mep, i cannot forget the sight of a dead reindeer; dead due to the effects of climate change and the constantly shrinking herding areas, putting the right of the sami people to practise their traditional profession into even more jeopardy than it is already.
for me as an mep, the effects of climate change on the rights of indigenous people are really very close to my heart, because the warming climate is the direct, or indirect, cause of many of the violations against their rights.
for the alde group mr president, european foreign and security policy must have a much stronger climate dimension than it does today.
we are all happy with the paris climate agreement and the fact that the european union was a strong player in it.
but one paris agreement is not enough, the climate dimension must be included in all eu bilateral and multilateral discussions and agreements between third countries, and in all bilateral discussions as well.
the essence of this report is that we do not consider this paris climate agreement to be sufficient, but that practical agreements must be made to implement it.
we cannot turn a blind eye to the cooperation between climate and migration.
to this end, efforts should be made to develop, in conjunction with and within the un, a generally accepted definition of climate refugees.
in fact, it's quite strange that even today there is no common global definition of what we mean by climate refugees.
mr president, although the european union has been a global leader in climate policy, it has also seriously underestimated the measures needed.
i believe that our current climate package lacks about half of the effective measures we would need to stop global warming to below 1.5 degrees.
this is why climate policy must be integrated into all eu diplomacy and foreign policy.
the g7/g20 agenda should make climate policy the eu's number one priority.
it also concerns the type of products that are imported into the eu and how climate compensation or quality requirements are made here, and how the eu operates within the wto so that climate and resource efficiency criteria are actually also incorporated into international trade agreements and interpretations.
in this case, too, dumping on the environment is unfair competition, which allows other member states to challenge their partners for inappropriate aid, for example through the wto.
i think that our task should be to put the strengthening of the un at the centre at least as strongly as in the case of climate policy.
it also means practical measures, for example in the own assessment of the millennium development goals, in terms of evaluating the creation of a benchmark for own action and also in terms of bringing it up as part of, for example, climate policy in cooperation with third countries.
i hope that, as we have just been talking about climate, the eu could also include the climate refugee debate and its content in its un policy in the future.
cities also hold the key to land use planning, increasing green spaces and tackling climate change to a great extent, as various projects across europe have shown.
transport accounts for one fifth of emissions and is projected to increase significantly in the future.
while emissions have been cut in other sectors, they have only increased in the transport sector.
the environmental friendliness and efficiency of the entire transport chain must be considerably improved.
it is important that cooperation between the eu and the greek administration continues beyond the end of the adjustment programme and that greece continues the agreed reforms that will help the economy to remain on a sustainable footing.
– mr president, nobody should deny the urgency of addressing and tackling climate change, which has become a question for the very existence of humanity and our planet.
we have increasing scientific evidence that forest cover is the one feasible option we have for combating climate change.
however, we know that deforestation is currently the number two cause of greenhouse gas emissions.
in our waterways, in our lakes, in our rivers, in our seas, plastic is causing a lot of damage, damage that we don't even know about, the harmful effects on the ecosystem.
in line with the waste hierarchy, the priority should be to reduce waste, followed by reuse and recycling.
plastics can be replaced by products made from a variety of renewable materials.
of course, we individually must consider what we can do to reduce plastic waste.
mr president, the main objective of the plastics strategy is to reduce plastic waste.
the good news was that we still have a lot of work to do, the bad news, of course, is that plastic waste is increasing exponentially all over the world.
the main objective now is to work towards the total elimination of plastic waste.
it has a huge impact on both the economy and the environment.
the new waste directive obliges member states to organise the recycling and sorting of plastics.
and also that we need to invest enough in research and development in this area to find sustainable bio-based alternatives to plastics that are environmentally friendly.
for example, by sustainably managing forests, we can combat climate change and replace many plastic products with wood-based raw materials.
meeting the challenge of sustainable use of plastics requires investing in cutting-edge science, where horizon europe, for example, plays a major role.
plastic waste has increased in a threatening way as plastic consumption has multiplied over the last few decades.
only recently has there been a greater focus on environmental and sustainability issues.
however, it is essential that it be used in a more sustainable way.
plastic waste has devastating environmental impacts, for example on marine ecosystems, and its full health impacts on humans are not yet known.
the amount of waste generated must be reduced.
the recycling and collection should also be promoted, as currently only 30% of eu plastic waste is collected for recycling.
the majority of marine plastic waste comes from rivers in asia and africa, which lack the infrastructure for recycling and collection, as well as the public awareness of the problem.
the next item is the report by ms karin kadenbach, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the european joint health action plan to combat antimicrobial resistance (2017/2254 (ini)) (a8-0257/2018).
i would like to focus on three major issues, the most important and urgent of which is the reduction of transport emissions.
and that's where we have really big challenges, because we know that emissions in transport have only increased.
the forecast is that traffic will increase significantly, so now we need really big cuts in transport emissions.
the fastest way, as we know, is to add renewable fuel to the tanks of cars, because the fleet is renewing itself very slowly.
on the other hand, digitalisation also helps us to reduce emissions by enabling us to design the entire transport system more efficiently.
we are currently dealing with the budgetary frameworks for the coming period and it is important that we invest enough money in transport infrastructure, transport digitalisation, alternative energy and on the other hand in innovation and research, because we also need more information to be able to remain at the forefront of the world as a pioneer in clean transport in europe.
what we discussed very much during that work was that we need to ensure that europe has a very pro-innovation regulatory environment - legislation that encourages innovation in the sector and also encourages investment.
there is a lot of talk about cryptocurrencies in the context of blockchain, but it should be noted that we have a lot of promising other sectors where blockchain can be used: transport, energy, healthcare and various supply chains, so it is a very potential technology.
a distributed ledger can give both artist and art consumers a better, more transparent method of knowing who made which piece of digital art, and i want to see applications in europe for example on renewable energies and electrical charging for cars.
we must not curb innovation, but set the framework for a legal and trustworthy environment.
this means a better leveraging regulatory environment.
if we want to preserve a good technology environment, what we would need to have in the future in the eu is a special agency concentrating on new technology threats and how to combat these in a proactive manner instead of just reacting later on after a crisis has happened.
there is no time to waste, because there’s nothing more compelling in the political world today than the requirement on responsible business conduct.
– mr president, after the cop21 meeting in paris, we decided that we were going to stand for these principles, and therefore we created a framework which consisted of emissions trading, effort sharing and lucf.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully support the position of the committee on energy, research and technology.
we cannot give the car industry any leeway unless we want to piss in our own, or our children's or our grandchildren's, crumbs in climate policy.
the money we save can also be used to innovate in the areas of climate, environment and health, which will also create new jobs that are badly needed here.
i dare say that climate change pioneers will also create more of the much-needed new jobs back home than those who resist all the time.
mr president, we’ve just had the latest news from the trump administration in the usa: a forecast that the climate is going to warm up by four degrees, and the result is ‘we are not going to do anything’.
we are going to have the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) report within one week.
if you refer to science, co2 emissions should be reduced by more than 50% in new cars, maybe 70%.
how seriously we are taking climate change is an issue.
this is one of the key pieces of legislation, so i appeal for us to go for at least a 45% reduction in co2 emissions from cars.
it is clear that the car industry must do its part to reduce emissions.
we need to be able to cut traffic emissions much faster.
at present, more than a quarter of europe's emissions come from transport.
we know that traffic volumes are forecast to only increase, and transport emissions are the only sector where emissions have also increased in europe over the decades.
the fastest way to cut emissions is to use renewable sustainable fuels in cars that already exist, because it takes decades for the fleet to renew.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the european union is not able to meet the needs of the world economy.
we know that there are many environmental problems in the mining of battery metals and battery production that also need to be solved.
so the fact that we want to cut emissions in europe and globally is very important, but it requires a lot of action.
while this is being realised, i hope that, in the next review, the sustainable finance principles can be included in our vat system.
this will mean that products with a higher environmental and climate load should have higher vat rates, while goods that are reused or recycled, or which impact less on climate change, should have a lower vat rate – instead of the haphazard approach to lower rates, with percentage point differences here and there, which we see at the moment.
hopefully – and this is a message to the commission – provisions to that effect can be included, especially now that we have the commissioner responsible for climate change.
however, it should be remembered that a sustainable system requires the maintenance of the state economy.
in addition to supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, public procurement can be used to promote, for example, environmental friendliness and the circular economy, innovation and social objectives such as better care for the elderly and the disabled.
many companies engage in csr activities on a voluntary basis, and it is part of reputation management, for example, but as long as csr is based on voluntary action only, there will be companies that will go where the barrier is lowest and the cost is lowest, thus benefiting from a false competitive advantage that may put human lives, health or the environment at risk.
mr president, it was not surprising to us that the international climate panel, the ipcc, said that the measures already promised and those already taken are not enough to prevent global warming of more than one and a half degrees.
the itre renewable energy, energy performance of buildings and energy performance in general directives have already been agreed with the council.
in the past, commissioner cañete has estimated that the measures will lead to a 45% reduction in emissions by 2030. we need more, faster, like he just said.
i expect a coherent, important, long-term strategy for reducing emissions from the commission before katowice.
we also need the decisions on the blackmailing of the emissions trading system.
we need clean energy, technology and sustainable material solutions.
political leadership is needed in the world to give markets a clear direction and to empower consumers, and for the sake of children, we need to take responsibility for a sustainable planet for the future.
the problems caused by climate change are not far in the future, but its effects are already visible and felt.
greenhouse gases reached record levels last year, temperatures are above average, arctic ice is melting at record rates, and extreme weather events are becoming more common.
the report released in october by the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) illustrates the vast difference between 1.5 and 2.0 degrees celsius of warming.
to achieve a 1.5°c global warming target, ambitious measures are needed, including investment in new technologies and significant cuts in emissions.
to stick to current emission commitments would mean a global warming of 3 degrees by the end of the century, with catastrophic consequences.
climate change is a challenge of its magnitude, requiring cooperation and the sharing of carbon between all countries and all citizens.
legislation will also be adapted to better respond to the challenges of climate change and the circular economy.
mr president, the european union generates as much as 26 million tonnes of plastic waste a year.
it's a huge waste, both environmentally and economically.
it also speeds up product development, which allows us to make more sustainable, better, more environmentally friendly products.
it is also important that we otherwise strive to reduce unnecessary plastic waste.
half of this plastic waste floating in the sea consists of products designed to be discarded after a single use.
i am positive that the packaging of products contains information on the harmful effects of littering and on how the waste generated should be sorted.
all operators must play their part in reducing waste and the environmental impact substantially.
some actors are already comparing antibiotic resistance to climate change, because it's global and it's affecting us everywhere.
if we want, as i hope we will, to achieve the common climate targets in a burden-sharing and balanced way, then the transport sector must also take a wide range of measures to reduce emissions.
the legislation under discussion today is also part of this work to reduce emissions.
otherwise, the calculation methodology, which only considers exhaust emissions, does not sufficiently cover the total energy consumption and environmental impacts.
i am very pleased that the committee on the environment has paid attention to the battery industry and its development needs in europe.
as electric transportation advances, it is increasingly important that battery production also be based on sustainability.
it is not sustainable at this time, especially when the need is going to increase significantly.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's clean energy package has been eagerly awaited.
for example, the guidelines for the use of renewable energy have now been set for the next 12 years.
of course, the guidelines could have been even more ambitious, because our climate continues to warm, and the ipcc report was really not something to be happy about.
it is sad to see that we continue to contrast jobs with climate and environmental work, without understanding that the real green revolution comes from the fact that we create new ways of producing energy, we create new ways of doing things and we can also market them to the world.
i don't think any country wants to be destroying the environment, the climate, our planet any longer.
mr president, the recent report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change reminded us that urgent and ambitious action is needed to halt global warming.
the clean energy package includes reforms on energy efficiency, the promotion of renewable energy and the governance of the energy union.
in this way, the union aims to achieve its commitments under the paris agreement to combat climate change.
improving energy efficiency also reduces dependence on energy imports from outside the eu and reduces energy costs for households and businesses.
at the same time, it will alleviate energy poverty, i.e.
in the coming decades, energy poverty may become an even bigger problem in the north, such as finland, if the price of energy rises faster than people's real incomes.
i hope that all the good efforts of the energy package will succeed.
the eu must do its part to combat climate change.
i am glad and relieved, mr president, that after tomorrow's vote, a real message of encouragement will be sent from this house to all those europeans who are developing the most advanced solutions in the world to reduce emissions.
for example, the transition to low-emission transportation is in dire need of the emission reductions provided by sustainable biofuels.
the european union must defend its leading role in combating climate change.
the european union has shown that sustainable growth is possible.
while we've reduced our emissions by 23%, our gdp has grown by 53%.
the european union must continue to pursue ambitious but realistic targets for reducing emissions.
the aim is to increase the eu's energy efficiency by 32.5% and increase the share of renewable energy to 32% by 2030. these are important steps to reduce emissions and to meet the commitments of the paris agreement.
we must fight climate change now, while we can still influence global warming.
the european parliament must stick to its line that the european union should tighten its own emissions reduction target to 55% by 2030. the european union is a world leader in the fight against climate change.
the only sector where emissions have increased in the eu is transport.
but the european union cannot tackle climate change on its own.
as the european union accounts for less than 10% of global emissions, the union must actively work to engage major emitters in the common objectives.
the third challenge will be our climate policy.
we need agricultural policies that also manage to emphasize the need to capture carbon dioxide through agriculture.
we have seen lately that georgia is working on the association agenda – for instance on labour law inspections, protection of the labour force – which is very important in order to be at such a high place in the international rankings as ninth best business environment, but it definitely needs labour protection.
let me mention that we just had the seventh parliamentary association committee meeting recently and we raised a new topic – environment.
we hope that georgia is doing a very important job on improving environmental protection in the fight against climate change.
the committee on transport, unlike the committee on the environment, considered that the emission limits proposed by the commission were quite strict and demanding.
15% emissions reduction by 2025 and 30% emissions reduction by 2030. the committee on transport considers these to be extremely strict objectives.
we supported these absolute figures from the commission because, although there have been no limits on co2 emissions from lorries, they are already quite efficient because fuel is such an expensive item of expenditure for transport that very good energy efficiency has already been sought.
the committee on transport's own opinion continued to criticise the fact that we are too focused on measuring emissions at the end of the tailpipe.
we should have a calculation method which takes a better look at the whole energy consumption and, in future, the whole life cycle.
this would give us a better picture of transport emissions and also enable us to promote a variety of alternative fuels.
it is time to show courage and to show that we are responsible not only for the environment of today but also for the problems and the world of future generations.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for the opportunity to put this oral question to the commission on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on lyme disease.
this is thought to be due to the cooling of the climate brought about by climate change.
finally, i would like to thank my colleagues in the committee on the environment and in parliament as a whole for the very good cooperation and strong support.
fortunately, we now have the whole team of the committee on the environment working on this.
it also provides an opportunity to contribute to the achievement of climate objectives on a global scale, where solutions must be found on a global scale.
mr president, concern about the climate and our environment has been on everyone's lips since the international panel on climate change published its report at the latest.
we have also seen recently that adaptation and reducing emissions is not without problems.
combating climate change is a cross-border effort.
climate and environment work is a core area of eu activity and the life programme is the only eu funding programme dedicated entirely to this work.
however, it must be admitted that the financial resources available to the eu cannot solve the problems facing our environment, as the commissioner has just said.
climate change, environmental problems and the loss of biodiversity are not a matter of visas or national borders, and therefore cooperation and action across all borders is of enormous importance.
mr president, life is actually the only financial instrument under the eu budget that is wholly dedicated to the environment, nature conservation and climate change, over and above national expenditure.
and last but not least it is extremely important to emphasise the biodiversity aspect.
we have very good experience with using the life programmes for biodiversity and now, especially, when there has been a more than 60% decline between 1970 and 2014 in birds, fishes, mammals, amphibians and reptiles, we urgently need to increase life funding and try to leverage member states’ funding in these areas, and that also extends to large carnivores all over europe.
thank you for the good work and hopefully the commission can support and direct life funding for biodiversity.
mr president, people have a right to a safe and healthy working environment.
mr president, this report on the connecting europe facility is indeed a joint report by the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on transport and tourism.
the connecting europe facility is one of the major programmes of the coming period, which aims primarily at investing in european infrastructure in the fields of energy, digitalisation and transport.
the fight against climate change will be a particular focus of the coming period.
the commission is also proposing to increase the number of projects in the area of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.
in the energy sector, we have already identified the most important european links for which this funding will be used: these are the networks of interconnection, the crossborder links, which are essential for europe, and that list will of course be updated in the coming years.
this is also necessary because the amount of renewable energy is constantly increasing in europe and because transmission and cross-border transmission links play a very important role.
as a new element of this programme, it will also be possible to finance joint renewable energy projects in the member states.
renewable energy is an important area where investment is needed.
in the future, we must also find more synergies between transport, energy and digital projects.
this includes, for example, the infrastructure for the distribution of alternative fuels along transport routes or smart grids for energy.
so there is an increased need for synergies between digitalisation, energy and transport, which will give us a very modern and modern infrastructure for europe.
also this week, we hope to receive news from katowice about the climate agreements at global level.
i travel there tomorrow as part of the european parliament delegation, and i want to take with me the message from this house that we will support infrastructure for the next century and for clean energy solutions.
we no longer need much for gas in the next century, so i really hope that we can improve the safety of the infrastructure networks, and also that we can really concentrate on, and invest our money in, renewables and then in electricity, in order to save our climate.
indeed, this cef programme will play a very central role in the coming years as we work towards building a common digital single market for europe and towards building a common energy union.
we are far from that goal, so it is important that we increase funding now so that our industry can be competitive in the future and so that we can respond to the great global challenges, of which climate change is one of the most acute at the moment.
it is great that parliament now includes the word agriculture in its position, because sustainable food systems do not exist without a direct link to agriculture.
the 10 billion euro investment is absolutely essential because we also have to take care of the sustainability of our food system.
the current system is not enough to feed the world's growing population, and as climate change continues, we are facing new challenges that now require innovation and research to solve.