a european framework law on climate and energy was therefore needed.
so these are important goals, and we've set these goals with a vision, i would say, for 2050. the concept of a carbon budget was introduced, i.e.
if the european union is to become a net-zero carbon economy by 2050 at the latest, it has two major levers, energy efficiency and renewable energy, and i agree with my co-rapporteurs that the commission is not ambitious enough, nor are the member states, for that matter, to be consistent with the paris agreement.
similarly, what was interesting - and i hope my colleagues will support it - was that the fact that the commission is developing a comprehensive strategy for methane was introduced, because it has a very high global warming potential and, for example, over five years, one tonne of methane does as much damage as 101 tonnes of co2, so it is very important to include it.
now, on the method: how can we put these goals into music by first developing integrated national energy and climate plans for 2030 every five years, with a perspective every ten years?
given that the targets are set by sectoral legislation, whether it is the renewable energy directive, energy efficiency, or buildings, the governance report refers to linear trajectories for the deployment of renewable energy and energy efficiency over the next ten years, and when you look at that, it's a plus for everything.
this is a plus for investment security, job creation and to address energy poverty.
i am counting on my colleagues, because we cannot say that the european union is a bit of a leader in climate action and then fall short of the paris agreement's objectives in terms of legislation.
the report nevertheless introduces a too low target for renewable energy in transport.
this is a minimum, at a time when europe must take the lead in the renewable energy economy at the global level.
mr cañete, you are going in the right direction, but the final message is that 21st century mobility requires political courage and, above all, real renewable energy.
mr president, this governance will require member states to present national energy and climate plans and it attempts to establish the commission as the energy leader by allowing it to judge the policies and energy mix of states, to the detriment of national interests.
this text is a serious attack on national sovereignty and sets the first milestones for the federalisation of the energy market, despite its strategic nature.
finally, this legislation will be binding on renewable energies, whereas legislation should be introduced to promote decarbonised energy, limit pollution, but include nuclear energy - this was the commission's proposal before the rapporteur's damaging amendments.
i shall end by mentioning the other two texts of the energy package.
we must strengthen energy efficiency and alternative sources of energy, but we reject the development of intermittent energy sources at the speed of light and the commission's constant desire to extend its powers.
mr president, commissioner, i agree with the wish to take account of the emission of methane, a greenhouse gas much more potent than co2.
however, the 'all renewable' target for 2050 raises the question of the sustainability of structures such as wind farms, whose energy cost is very high and whose components are not sustainable.
this source of energy is intermittent, blurs electromagnetic waves and can kill many protected birds.
as for photovoltaic plants, their components are not environmentally friendly and the impact on the price of energy is considerable.
we must build an energy europe that guarantees our independence and enables us to be competitive in the global arena.
we must meet the energy and climate targets set by the paris agreement.
member states, businesses and citizens must be supported so that they can reduce their energy consumption; we need to develop more energy-efficient and sustainable sources, products and buildings.
mr president, 'to your good will, ladies and gentlemen' is the title some might like to give to the energy package.
finance or the planet, the carbon market or cleaner air?
but if we talk about finance, let us remember that the energy bill of the european union is 400 billion euros a year, of which 160 billion is only for heating public buildings and, of course, it is fossil energy, so imported.
so we have no choice but to impose a paradigm shift to gain energy autonomy, to lower the bill of the most precarious families and, yes, above all, to save the planet.
energy efficiency will make us more competitive, renewables less dependent and more in line with the paris agreement, and so i hope that we will remain consistent with what we voted in december in the interests of all.
mr president, (start of the speech outside the microphone) ... which underpins the energy union is worthy of the soviet union, and the energy union should be abandoned in its entirety.
not only is the european union forcing states to change their energy policies, but energy is also harmful to all eu citizens.
the most tragic aspect of this energy union is the so-called security of supply, which seeks to cut off the european union countries from cheap supplies from our european neighbour, russia, under the pretext of escaping a fantasy geostrategic threat.
the economic and ecological absurdity of your policy is that european countries are being pushed to buy liquefied natural gas from the united states and qatar, that is, from the other side of the planet and at a higher cost to consumers.
creating more carbon footprints with supertankers?
so what's the point of making the paris climate accords?
i am pleased to see that members have acknowledged the importance of these three issues in enabling europe to drive the clean energy transition.
on governance, i was surprised that some honourable members expressed the view that the governance initiative will undermine the member states’ right to choose their energy mix.
the basic rationale of the initiative is to fully respect the principle of subsidiarity and the balance between the european union and member states in the area of energy.
on energy efficiency, i want to reiterate again the importance of maintaining a high level of ambition for article 7 to enable economically viable energy savings to be made over the next decade.
how can we say that we want to do more to encourage energy efficiency if, at the same time, we undermine the best instrument we have, which is article 7. so there is a contradiction sometimes, and we have to solve that.
the debate on energy efficiency also showed strong support for a high level of ambition for energy efficiency and a strong article 7. that’s very positive.
if you see what happened in the october 2014 council, when energy efficiency was proposed at a level of 27, the commission acknowledged that this was not enough and then proposed a binding level of 30. now you are proposing higher levels, and the trilogues will be complicated and the commission will act as honest broker to get the best final energy-efficiency proposal.
there have been some more comments, particularly professor gierek, who consistently drew attention to the need for a life-cycle method to calculate energy use.
but if we apply it to the whole energy system it will cause problems such as double counting of energy use, so the commission prefers to keep the eurostat method for calculating energy efficiency.
i will just finalise by thanking all of the house for supporting these three pieces of legislation which are central to setting the new regulatory framework for the clean energy transition and for delivering our paris agreement commitments.
in the climate package with the emissions trading system, land use change and forestry we have been able to secure very complicated agreements.
i've heard a lot about the targets: 35%, 40%, whether it's on energy efficiency or renewable energy.
indeed, if we are ambitious on renewable energy, we can really have a renewable energy industry in europe, which means jobs and less dependence on other fossil fuels.
as for energy efficiency, the more ambitious we are, the more we can respond to innovation, which is still a characteristic of europe, and to energy poverty.
the energy package we are voting on was expected and necessary.
let us be clear: this package is essential to the achievement of the european union's climate objectives: with it we must deliver on our commitments to make the european union a leader in the green transition.
we must maintain the level of our ambition and our targets to curb our greenhouse gas emissions.
the legislative report on the development of renewable energies must make it possible to significantly commit european policy towards clean fuels.
the aim is to promote the technologies with the lowest carbon footprint.
it is time to start the shift towards truly clean energy sources, in the service of growth that is virtuous and that benefits everyone.
it is essential to modernise the current rules to adapt them to the sustainability objectives of the common fisheries policy, while respecting the principle of regionalisation.
so yes, mr van dalen, we are all in favour of innovation, but it still needs to be verified, it needs to be scientifically verified that the objective of sustainable resource management is being respected.
however, this sustainable management must be based on the best scientific advice, which the commission ignored in 2007 and it was not mr vella who was the commissioner by not complying with the scientific advice of 2006, which recommended that no derogation should be granted.
there are no scientific protocols on juveniles and marine ecosystems and scientists keep warning us about damage to cod or hake... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, on the one hand i believe that there is an absolute need to preserve the resource and, in particular, the juveniles, and on the other hand we are preparing to make electric fishing sustainable or to extend it, which is not discriminatory, since everything will be eradicated, down to the smallest fish in the area concerned.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by josé inácio faria on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the international governance of the oceans: an agenda for the future of our oceans in the context of the 2030 sustainable development goals (2017/2055 (ini) (a8-0399/2017)).
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by linnéa engström, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on women, gender equality and climate justice (2017/2086(ini)) (a8-0403/2017)
the debate is closed.
the european union is committed, it is said, to respect human rights, workers' rights and environmental standards in its trade policy.
brussels also tells us that trade policy must promote sustainable development in trade agreements; it is a very good initiative which is not respected at all.
the free trade agreements with canada, australia, new zealand and the mercosur countries, which it so ardently advocates, are not compatible with the notion of sustainable development.
the hormone-treated beef, the poultry, the cloned meat and the gmos that will fill our plates tomorrow will have first travelled around the world, with the resulting carbon footprint.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today the european parliament adopted the revision of the renewable energy directive.
this vote is crucial for the environment and the health of europeans, but also for european industries and farmers.
the causes are also known: the 2008 crisis, coupled with austerity policies and the shortage of low-skilled jobs, make the phenomenon sustainable.
in addition, china's recent decision to ban the import of certain plastic waste from europe offers us a real opportunity to create the conditions for an internal market for recycled materials.
this is no small feat in a context where we are dealing with a more global climate, around the services package, which i find particularly emblematic of the disconnection of a number of the proposals that can be made here with the reality of companies, smes and consumers.
we are always told about unjustified barriers, regulatory obstacles, but it would be good to remember that a regulation, a regulation, an obligation, if they still exist and if the commission has done its job properly, are in the public interest, that these regulations are there to protect the health and safety of consumers, food safety and the protection of the environment.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard".
as you said, mr president, this time the economic environment is actually improving for the european economy, and yet monetary policy still has to help support economic activity.
600 000 employees depend on you, 400 000 europeans are victims of air pollution every year.
the aim was to study the effects of pollution from volkswagen diesel engines, which were then modified to appear less polluting, which is all the more reprehensible.
the investigation into emissions fraud had shown how some people are twisting the eu's emissions rules to their advantage.
you know that i am in favour of carbon adjustment at the border, but you yourself have always opposed it because you said - and you always say - that it is a protectionist measure.
protectionist, yes: protectionist of the climate, of the environment, of jobs.
so i'm advocating for carbon adjustment at the border.
imagine how ridiculous it would be if tomorrow, in five years, in ten years, imported products were less carbon-intensive than our own.
madam president, commissioner, dear mrs girling, thank you, because we have been waiting for this reform of the carbon market for a long time.
this, of course, prevents 'low-carbon' investment from accelerating and the annual reduction in allocation from 1.7% to 2.2% which can be revised in 2024 will help to curb this surplus.
this reform will ensure that allowances are distributed more fairly, in line with real emissions from industrial sites, and will make it possible to create the fund for the modernisation of our electricity sectors and to mobilise the equivalent of more than 400 million allowances for innovation in europe in an innovation fund.
we must help it to remain competitive, because what is essential is to reconcile a real industrial strategy with active climate diplomacy.
they are also necessary to ensure a sound, stable and solid financial system, which is a condition for sustainable growth.
madam president, we are in favour of energy efficiency and energy storage becoming priorities, and electric mobility is a future solution for energy independence.
the policy of supporting innovation and the development of renewable energies is also of interest.
we appreciate the desire to look for competitive alternative energy sources, but we regret that this programme is linked to the ambitious objectives of the energy union.
the projects supported are therefore related to innovation in the energy sector, but always with a search for concrete development and profitability, which we approve.
the priorities set by this programme, the desire to find indigenous sources of energy, the involvement of the private sector and the interest of the projects financed could make it possible to vote in favour of this text.
however, the submission to the energy union, which we oppose, and the demand that the ninth framework programme of horizon 2020 be increased by 40 billion, or 50% of its budget despite brexit, invites us not to support this text and to opt for abstention.
with the paris agreement, with the un sustainable development goals, the european union and the member states have made historic and major climate and civilisation commitments.
reducing poverty in the world, promoting economic, social and environmental development, promoting democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights, yes, of course.
but too often we still see a commitment, a financing from the eib which, in the end, finances fossil energy rather than renewable energy.
i wonder if you should not commit yourself to this house to having a more explicit reporting strategy based on the sustainable finance criteria, in the spirit of the report that the high-level experts have just made, and to check with you how you intend to implement them in your institution.
the sustainable stability and security of this country are crucial, not only for all egyptians but also for the entire region, for the european union and for our member states.
climate agreement, social pillar, convergence, youth, sustainable development goals, investments for the future: we have our way.
cohesion is our key to converging on development for all peoples, all regions, environmental and social development.
this list, on the other hand, is a tool of an external strategy aimed at promoting good fiscal governance in third countries, putting an end to tax dumping and creating a fairer international tax environment.
the commission shares the view of the european parliament with regard to the importance of bees as pollinators for our environment and for agriculture, as well as the role that beekeeping could have in certain rural areas.
under the first pillar of the cap, 30% of the direct payments are linked to environment-friendly farming practices, while pillar ii supports agri-environment climate measures which also contribute to improving the environment for bees.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles.
madam president, commissioner, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i would like to sincerely thank the rapporteur, mr erdős, for his work, which is in the right direction in calling on the commission and the member states to ban neonicotinoids.
furthermore, the commission considers in its written reply of 1 september 2017 that neonicotinoids used in greenhouse crops are not dangerous for bees and therefore cannot be banned completely.
yet, as many have said, pollination plays an absolutely vital role in our food security and biodiversity.
there is an urgent need to move towards a model that is less dependent on pesticides and insecticides and that places greater value on ecosystem services.
budgets today are ridiculous compared to the agricultural and ecological services of pollinators, such as bees.
but that is also why, whenever we have small victories, we must draw from them a little courage, a little energy and, with this text, it is a small victory, a victory, albeit modest, but a victory nonetheless and we must act.
on the other hand, the instruments we have at our disposal, such as the generalised system of preferences or the sustainable development chapters of the agreements, need to better integrate gender equality and we need to ensure their full and effective implementation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when president trump is introducing protectionist measures on steel and aluminium, at a time when it is agreed that free trade agreements are harmful to our livestock, agricultural and sugar sectors and to the health of our citizens, you, ladies and gentlemen, are making us look like the byzantine clergy who were still discussing the sex of angels when the turkish forces were about to bring down constantinople, a report on gender equality in trade agreements, in a europe with almost 20 million unemployed, a europe with a negative trade balance and where our traditions and our environment are threatened.
so if we agree to denounce the risks of globalism, its social and economic violence, let us defend our industries, our traditions, our environment, our consumers with the same energy.
finally, we are against it because, from an ecological point of view, the intensification of transport links will increase polluting emissions, even though, in the transport sector, this argument is being pushed back to the point of nausea in favour of new taxes.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by ángela vallina on the role of the union's regions and cities in the implementation of the paris agreement of cop 21 on climate change (2017/2006 (ini)) (a80045/2018).
when i say important, i mean mostly politically important, because it calls for further mobilisation in the battle against climate change and because it puts some national actors on the front line, of course alongside the member states.
this is, indeed, where regions and cities should be when it comes to finding solutions for climate change mitigation and adaptation.
this is why is the commission welcomes parliament’s call to national governments to further support climate and energy initiatives at local and national level.
it mirrors the efforts made at european level to ensure that low carbon and climate-resilient targets are well embedded in all our policies.
climate mainstreaming: the target of at least 20% of the eu budget has helped us to deliver on the paris agreement and on our climate and energy objectives.
for instance, in the 2014-2020 programming period, close to 25% of the european structural and investment funds will be dedicated to climate-related actions such as energy efficiency, renewables and water retention measures.
i have in mind, for example, the eu covenant of mayors, which has been contributing to our climate and energy objectives since 2008. indeed, eu covenant cities have already reduced their emissions by 23% and have pledged to reach –27% by the year 2020. i also have in mind the urban agenda for the european union, which was mentioned here by ms spyraki and other honourable members of the european parliament.
as you may know, twelve partnerships have been put in place under the urban agenda, including on climate adaptation and energy transition.
this word is from fiji, describing an inclusive and open exchange, and, in preparation for the next un climate conference (cop24), which will take place in poland in december, local and regional authorities have this opportunity to share their successful policies and good practices through this talanoa dialogue.
the only ambition of this country in the process of becoming a slum is to become an open-air dump for all the household waste of the european union.
thirdly, we must set the stage for the new challenges of the ecological transition in security and defence.
together we are making new commitments: the paris climate agreement, which will have to translate into a 30% spending target, the european pillar of social rights, the un sustainable development goals.
globalisation is putting member states in front of unprecedented challenges in the areas of security, defence, migration, the digital economy, climate and the fight against globalised terrorism.
no one can claim that 1% of national income can finance traditional european policies, decisions already taken on migration policy, climate change or defence, and future priorities for the 2020s.
yes, agriculture must evolve to be a player in the climate challenge, but also in the migration challenge.
we are advocating in the european parliament that the cap budget be maintained while reforming it: better allocation of aid, refocusing the cap on economic policy and integrating environmental and climate issues in an intelligent way are our objectives.
mr president, commissioner, it is not easy to draw up a european budget within the constraints we know, and i would like to thank my friend daniele viotti for his proposals which can help to tackle the most urgent challenges facing the european union today: managing migration, of course, fighting youth unemployment, combating climate change, supporting basic research and innovation, encouraging mobility and investment - all policies which should in no way be financed at the expense of structural policies such as cohesion and the cap.
we also risk failure if we adopt the same deadly logic as the eastern partnership in the caucasus, where the european union has tried to uproot nations from their historical environment, or in ukraine.
firstly, because it is public investment that stimulates private investment, but also because it is public investment that will enable us to make a successful ecological and social transition, defend our social model and create jobs.
in conclusion, the proposal we are making today is a balanced proposal in its economic, social and environmental dimensions which, in the end, contributes to the establishment of a sustainable model.
that is why the committee on economic and monetary affairs is proposing, for the first time this year, that you use it in practice to combat inequalities, to link the recommendations that the commission will make to the various member states with the united nations' sustainable development objectives, or to use these recommendations to combat discrimination on the labour market, particularly between men and women.
we have tried, including in this parliament, with the martin report, to say what we should do about the steel industry to modernise it, to innovate, to make it carbon efficient, energy efficient, including perhaps a carbon tax at the borders, but if we do not do that, then we will always be in trouble with the united states, china and all the others.
on the day trump announced these measures, the european commission was launching a new action plan against global warming.
but the commission's environmental pretensions are now in total contradiction with its frantic free trade.
reducing greenhouse gas emissions requires relocating economies and bringing production centres closer to where they are consumed.
you must and we must be on the offensive to urgently call for a revision of the wto rules to re-introduce social and environmental considerations in international price setting.
this was not to mention the climate of endemic corruption highlighted by several international indices, including that of transparency international.
these companies therefore have a social, territorial and ecological responsibility towards society and their employees.
two years after the dieselgate scandal, which proved that manufacturers cheated on pollution tests and that states covered them up, you tell us: "trust us!"
stop simply trusting them, mr commissioner, reopen the legislation, set binding targets so that tomorrow our transport is really clean and that, finally, air pollution is reduced and disappears forever throughout europe.
madam president, it is true that the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport is obvious and today an urgent one.
the european union must be much more directive towards the states in the direction of a new territorial structuring of supplies of renewable and alternative energies.
of course, the european union must also encourage research and continue to work on these issues of energy alternatives.
this legislative report is part of the union's action plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and to achieve the objectives of the paris climate agreement.
agriculture and forestry are already active contributors to the mitigation of global warming through their capacity to absorb greenhouse gases.
secondly, i believe that member states will have sufficient scope to mobilise the full potential of their forests to contribute to our climate objectives while supporting the growth of the entire timber sector, which is essential to the european economy.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the seventh environment action programme sets the objectives to be achieved by the union and its member states in the field of the environment by 2020. despite its merits, the report before us today seems to be a litany of regrets and reproaches to all european policies which do not sufficiently integrate environmental issues into their objectives.
without economic sustainability of farms, there will be no progress in the environment or in the climate.
these crops have immense agronomic interests and play a central role in the transition to more sustainable production systems.
this dependence causes irreversible damage to biodiversity, such as deforestation, but also represents a considerable carbon footprint.
the fight against deforestation is at the heart of the paris climate agreement.
however, legumes have their advantages: they have the unique property of capturing atmospheric nitrogen, which allows farmers to use less fertiliser.
by generating many co-products used in green chemistry and for the production of renewable energy, they fit perfectly into the circular economy.
i hope that in the next cap, incentives for nitrogen fixing plants will not be provided solely under the ecological focus areas, but through a set of measures in the first and second pillars, such as crop rotation, crop associations and support for ecosystem services.
food sovereignty and security, the fight against global warming, a better closure of the nitrogen cycle and the upgrading of our supply chains: as you will have understood, plant proteins are at the heart of all the issues we will tackle tomorrow for the future of our common agricultural policy.
there is another way, a much more productive way, that of a progressive, social, democratic and ecological transformation of the european project, that is to say, the modern and new way of a union of associated, free, sovereign nations and peoples.
europe is not protecting when it goes to the front of these free trade agreements which destroy our social, health and environmental standards.
to protect workers and peoples, for sovereignty, we must have the courage to emancipate ourselves from the domination of the financial markets and invent new mechanisms to cancel illegitimate debts, renegotiate others and give ourselves the means to effectively mobilize the huge sums of money that the central bank creates for the economy of the future: public services, the environmental and digital transition through the creation of a fund for human, social and environmental development.
such a fund would be a very good tool to pay off our debt to sncf, to promote a common project for freight in europe in the service of the climate, and it could also be a formidable lever to launch a major european digital enterprise to break out of north american domination.
for human and cultural reasons, for economic and ecological imperatives, this century will be the century of the return of the very notion of limit, that is to say of frontier, unpleasant to the zealots of the unrestricted free movement of goods and persons, which has become the free movement of arms and terrorists.
what we must guarantee is a sustainable france and sustainable nations in europe.
it is a franco-german agreement, but i think it is a good franco-german bargain: nuclear energy for coal.
thank you, mr president, the un pacts on immigration are full of good intentions to justify the intensification of migration flows and to make legal the illegal immigration which you refuse to prevent, for ideological or economic reasons, to the detriment of the identities, security and even the sustainability of the european peoples.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the question is "blue cardboard".
president putin himself signed a paper that says the threat to russia's economic security is our energy savings and green technologies.
so let's make a real energy transition, and we won't need russian gas, and then let's draw up a magnitsky list banning russians from european territory who are complicit in crimes in syria and elsewhere, freeze their assets and let's not go to the world cup... (the president withdraws the speaker)
on behalf of the enf group.
the second urgent problem is the disease of the 21st century: air pollution, which still causes 400 000 premature deaths a year.
it was said that it was essential to support farmers in this essential transition to a sustainable model, which respects human health and the environment and which our citizens are increasingly calling for.
similarly, unlike the pesticide-fertilizer system, which requires a limited number of varieties, farmers' seeds help preserve biodiversity and natural resources.
in addition to actions to promote social and territorial cohesion, employment and training, the employability of young people in particular, economic policy coordination, and the strengthening of euro area governance, there is an urgent need to assess the effectiveness of certain sovereign prerogatives exercised at national level and to recognise the urgency of taking them on now at european level, whether in defence and security, the fight against terrorism, the digital economy, cyberattacks, climate protection, fraud and tax havens.
however, this parliament voted clearly in march: to maintain the cap and cohesion, to ensure the energy and ecological transition, to boost the union's flagship policies by tripling erasmus+, by doubling the youth guarantee and the biodiversity programme, by increasing research and innovation.
it would also have been necessary to implement the social pillar, to respect the paris agreements, and to build on the objectives of sustainable development.
the consequences are obviously health-related and as vice-chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety i would like to stress that counterfeit or smuggled cigarettes are cheaper, more easily accessible to young people and more dangerous.
the human or ecological consequences are irrelevant, since this will allow the most important thing: to increase the profits of opportunistic companies.
as regards environmental protection, i note that while the sustainability of transport is once again being raised as a standard, there is nothing in this report about the essential role that rail and inland waterway transport could play in tackling these bottlenecks.
firstly, on the climate issue: the co2 standard is too low for trucks.
in addition, according to the roadmap, trucks under 16 tonnes will not be affected, whereas the entire road sector must make efforts to combat global warming.
the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources is therefore proof that concrete action between states is a matter of course and that the european union is not the alpha and omega of cooperation.
the cap must have a harmonised environmental ambition at european level and thus help farmers who want to go further in more environmentally friendly practices.
we must promote environmental and economic performance and recognise the essential role of farmers as the first environmentalists.
the report covers a wide range of issues, from safeguarding farmers' incomes, to the position of agriculture in free trade agreements, to reorienting agriculture to take account of the environmental and climate aspects of biodiversity.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to commend you for your commitment and your energy, and assure you that we will do everything we can to support you and give europe a budget that will enable it to meet the challenges of globalisation.
we have challenges in the field of security, defence, climate protection, prevention of cyberattacks, the digital economy.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european environment agency.
the same is true for the introduction of a real carbon tax, even though the 'not very progressive' us president does not hesitate to protect his country's economy.
mr president, president jacques chirac said this about the environmental emergency: 'our house is on fire and we are looking elsewhere!'
a european taxation that would tackle financial transactions, carbon adjustment at borders, gafa and, of course, tax fraud would not touch the wallet of european citizens and would not allow them to gamble on 1%, 1.3%, a percentage x. maybe i'm dreaming or something.
economic strength and competitiveness, solidarity, sustainability and security are four guidelines which i believe this draft fully reflects.
and the result is that we've created over 50,000 jobs, from livestock to slaughter, but also easier sanitation controls and reduced greenhouse gas emissions, because we're in local production.
violence against children is omnipresent in our democratic society, often on the internet, very often at school and extremely often also in their family and living environment.
i would also like to welcome the inclusion of environmental and social criteria in the use of the new instruments.
it also improves the situation by incorporating international social and environmental commitments into our legislation.
reporting for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, mrs lulling, member of the commission.
this report provides a mid-term review of the implementation of the eu's trade strategy, which dates back to 2015. the international trade environment is constantly evolving.
in the area of trade and the promotion of european values, tools exist, such as gsp schemes and sustainable development chapters in agreements.
another logic must emerge and this would be possible by moving towards tax harmonization on capital from above, by harmonizing upwards the remuneration of labour with a voluntarist policy of catch-up for employees in the countries of eastern and southern europe, by inventing for all european employees a totally innovative system, a social security of work and activity, combined with permanent training, throughout the life of employees, and, finally, a trade policy including the fight against social and environmental dumping and allowing the renewal of industry and agriculture, as well as public services.
it cannot accept that they do not have access to a lawyer, that they are imprisoned without evidence and without trial because they are simply human rights activists, environmental activists or political activists.
finally, we are also seeing an acceleration in traffic: + 50% by 2030, x 3 by 2050, forecasts show an acceleration in the sector that is completely incompatible with the climate agreements and this is where easa has an added value, since it has environmental skills, so that progress can be made in the area of lightening materials, the use of hydrocarbons and the electrification of soils.
yet these trucks produce about 25% or a quarter of the greenhouse gas emissions from road transport in the european union.
it is high time that we put an end to this imbalance if we are to meet the cop 21 commitments to save the climate and the planet, but also to give citizens a chance to breathe.
monitoring of co2 emissions and fuel consumption of trucks is good news.
until recently, co2 emissions and fuel consumption of heavy goods vehicles were neither reported nor monitored in an objective and comparable way in the european union.
transport companies will now be able to choose the vehicles with the lowest consumption and emissions, which will reduce costs and pollution.
we must not stop there, the road freight sector must do more and better to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions.
the commission has recently made proposals to this effect with a view to achieving a genuine and complete decarbonisation of the sector by 2050. i hope that we will be there, ladies and gentlemen, to give more strength, more substance and more ambition to this proposal so that the road freight sector emits 50% less greenhouse gases by 2030 and more by 2050. so if we stick to it, then we have a chance to meet our commitments, particularly cop 21, because we are all dancing on the same volcano in the face of climate change, so let's seize this opportunity.
mr president, it was on the basis of the fact that 38 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions come from road transport that the commission presented in 2017 a system for monitoring and reporting data on co2 emissions from new heavy-duty vehicles.
in parallel with this desire to reduce co2 emissions, which led france to promote the diesel engine, which allows it to have co2 emissions more than 10% lower than the european average, the commission has launched the hunt for diesel in favour of petrol.
once again, this will be a punitive ecology, with administrative fines that will go straight into the pockets of europe, which will hit the heavy industry to the detriment of a policy promoting good eco-conduct practices and supporting manufacturers and oems towards economically viable environmental objectives.
the only option for manufacturers is to switch to alternative fuels with lower co2 emissions, such as lng or electricity.
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by carlos iturgaiz, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, entitled 'towards a sustainable and competitive european aquaculture sector' (a8-0186/2018).
migration will not stop overnight, and they are obliged to find a shared solution, otherwise what will happen is quite simple: each member state close to a migratory route will continue to spend its energy pushing people back across the border or at sea, without finding or even looking for a structural response.
there are too many security issues around us in europe to waste time bickering between these two organizations.
it is an economy in its own right, based not only on the economic principle of value creation, profit and job creation, but also on a new vision of consumption, because it is of course the object of consumption itself, from our daily food to motor vehicles, our homes or our auxiliaries and robots, but also their packaging and waste.
a radical change that can save us from disappearing under our own objects and waste.
madam president, the european union produces 2.5 billion tonnes of waste a year, of which 25 million tonnes is plastic waste.
all the union's policies must be geared to the environment, and this requires a copernican revolution of the minds, it requires getting rid of consumerism, the throwaway economy, the waste society.
this criticism applies to all the texts in the services package, which all follow the same logic: under the guise of revising procedural aspects, whether on proportionality or on notifications or on the introduction of the professional card for services, the aim is to deprive the member states of the possibility of introducing rules for regulated professions, rules which, it should be recalled, exist only because they correspond to compelling reasons of general interest as important as the health of europeans, the safety of consumers or the protection of the environment.
far from being an accessory, access to culture determines the prospects of these cities, because why would a company invest in them tomorrow if it cannot offer its employees the living environment they want?
a crime against science: israel, a small country, the only democracy in the region, has managed to develop brilliantly in a hostile environment.
the main factors are: sex, age, commercial structure of the farms, good ecological practices and good cultivation methods, etc.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by arne lietz and jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on climate diplomacy (2017/2272(ini) (a8-0221/2018).
no, i am not committing the union to an international role in carbon markets.
as you know, all cities are a place where many of europe’s challenges, such as dealing with high unemployment, promoting social integration, fighting against climate change, and reducing air pollution or congestion, are specifically acute and must be dealt with.
in addition, globally the urban agenda for the european union is meant to become the european union contribution to the united nations’ new urban agenda, the habitat iii conference, and the sustainable development goals.
i will also say a word about the economic and environmental benefits that 3d printing could bring in the future.
i congratulate you on the work of dialogue, the method, the energy and the way you have given a new impetus to all these areas.
there are some points i would like to highlight, mainly and in particular the political agreement reached in the trilogue on 20 june under your presidency on the draft regulation on eu governance on energy and climate policies which must enable the union's energy and climate objectives in europe to be achieved by 2030 with a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, a minimum share of renewable energy of 32% in the union's energy mix and a target of 32.5% energy savings.
we must always go further in energy if we are to achieve our collective objectives.
this is a major biodiversity issue.
again, we need to go further into biodiversity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
what a waste at the beginning of the 21st century, which will have to be blamed on a process of globalisation in general and on commodity speculation in particular.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
intelligence, sustainability and inclusion are the leitmotif of our action to ensure a european budget that lives up to our ambitions.
regional cohesion, sustainable economic growth, the fight against climate change, the dignified reception of refugees, the fight against youth unemployment.
this debate and the conclusions of the trilogue must enable us to tell our fellow europeans that europe will not give up supporting youth, cohesion policy, rural development, biodiversity, research, innovation and, as you said, commissioner, investment in digital technology and the energy transition.
the massive importation of timber and its processing outside our environmental and social standards in china and vietnam is the real source of deforestation, and the report does not address this.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european environmental policy, which is to be based on the principles of sustainable development and sustainable development.
we share your priorities, which should be those of europe for social progress, in a protected environment, for more solidarity and humanism, respect for values and intransigence against the violation of fundamental rights.
the us is one of the eu's historical allies with whom we have developed a strong and strategic partnership over many years in the face of global challenges such as globalisation, the fight against terrorism and the fight against climate change.
the member states need to do their part here because the european union, the commission and the institutions have enormously increased the amount of money we invest in africa, not only in the traditional fields of development aid, humanitarian aid, peace and security, but also in economic issues, in trade, in good governance and rule of law, in human rights, in women's and youth participation, and in many other issues, including climate change which is extremely important in relation to migration.
you are deliberately organising unfair competition, inside the european union with seconded work, outside the european union with free trade agreements whose consequences are seriously anti-ecological and which harm our industries and agriculture.
madam president, mr juncker, since you are certainly listening to us from where you are, you have rightly mentioned the dramatic consequences of climate change.
you have not heard, mr juncker, the european people's ardent desire to get rid of glyphosate and their ardent desire to fight climate change.
your trade policy, the globalisation that you defend with ceta (comprehensive economic and trade agreement), mercosur and so many others, is the globalisation of junk food, pesticides, animal suffering, deforestation, fossil fuels and climate chaos.
we were entitled to expect an ambitious european commission, the commission of the last chance - you said - committed, protective, implementing the 17 un sustainable development goals, based on the triptych: economic, social, environmental.
to ensure the sustainability of our pension systems by distribution, we are systematically locked into this infernal triptych: lower pensions, higher contributions and lowering the legal retirement age.
the time has come to identify the european commons, that is, the sovereign prerogatives that states can no longer exercise alone because of the challenges posed by globalisation, whether climate, defence, migration, space, terrorism, digital technology or artificial intelligence.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, the accumulation of plastic in the environment, particularly in the oceans, has become unbearable.
the decision by china to ban imports of european plastic waste offers us an opportunity to create the conditions for a genuine internal market for recycled materials.
so we have several actions to take: action on the design and composition of plastics: we have spoken about dangerous substances; action on collection and recycling, i have just spoken about it, there is a lot to be done in the member states; action on consumers, to learn responsible and ecological behaviour; action to classify materials; the commission has also taken action to ensure the quality of recycling, because it is clear that recycled plastics still have a very bad reputation and that there is a need to raise awareness among citizens about the more responsible use of plastics and to improve the quality of recycled plastics.
as you know, over 13 million tons of waste is dumped into our seas every year.
we must stop with this neo-liberal logic, which we know all too well in france, which is to say that pollution is the fault of the consumer, the financial crisis is the fault of households and unemployment is the fault of the unemployed.
finally, i propose that the new european solidarity corps, which we set up yesterday, be open to projects based on waste collection.
madam president, we are talking about a real ecological disaster, because almost half of the 10 billion tonnes of plastic produced have ended up in nature and on the ocean floor.
we must therefore ask the manufacturers to change the composition of cigarette butts, because cigarette butts are a real scourge for the environment.
copper is 100% natural and sustainable, and has antimicrobial efficacy.
mr president, the various environmental scandals and the hesitation and reversal of the european union's position on plant protection products and plant protection products such as glyphosate show that the texts, even if they are european, are designed to be circumvented and are therefore ineffective.
this is the message i am bringing to this parliament about the dual environmental and economic performance of european agriculture.
allow me, mr vice-president, to draw your attention to a key point both in the oral question we are asking and in the draft resolution we are - i hope - going to vote on: to verify that at least this accounting standard contributes, of course, to financial stability and the competitiveness of the insurance sector, but also to cross-cutting objectives which the european union must now pursue in each of its legislation, that is to say that this standard contributes to the definition of the public good, to the sustainability of our economies, to long-term investment and to the achievement of our climate change objectives.
bitcoin mining alone consumes as much energy as austria, so imagine if you had to mine hundreds of other ledgers!
until the problems of energy efficiency and an effective alternative to proof-of-work have been solved, it will be foolhardy to try to decline these technologies to all sections of society.
i do not deny that the report in question is trying to highlight a key issue in the agricultural sector and, more generally, in the protection of our lands, but the farmers concerned also suffer from major handicaps which are not caused by the natural environment but by the european union.
we need them to be alive and well because they preserve the environment and because they protect the areas that are down there.
the second is that climate disasters like the one that just hit indonesia will increase.
in addition to humanitarian considerations, it is in europe's interest to help the states that will be victims to avoid another flood of migration, this time climate.
the lack of transparency in the negotiations, social and ecological denial, the total absence of food democracy, exceptional justice for multinationals... we must really hear the people's opposition to free trade.
this is good, because nothing is more serious than the flood of migration that europe has been experiencing since 2015. and the hardest part is yet to come, because africa will double its population by 2050, which could lead to an additional influx of economic migrants, not to mention climate change, which could exacerbate the phenomenon.
corporate social and environmental responsibility is an important un topic.
– mr president, it is a pleasure to be here today for the debate on the commission proposal setting co2 emissions standards for cars and vans for the period up to 2020. this is a key proposal to implement the 2030 climate and energy framework, to continue delivering on our commitments under the paris agreement and to contribute to the transition to a low carbon economy.
this is not just essential for the climate, but also for europe’s economic prosperity and global competiveness.
with the adoption of the legislative proposals on the 2030 climate and energy framework, thanks to the excellent work of all our institutions, the european union is turning its global commitments into reality and is determined to continue as a world leader in the fight against climate change.
under the effort sharing regulation the member states now have binding emission reduction targets up to 2030 in the sectors not included in the european union emissions trading system – that is transport, buildings, agriculture and waste.
with almost a quarter of the european union’s total greenhouse gas emissions coming from transport, this sector has a vital role to play in this transition.
while europe has reduced its emissions by some 23% since 1990, road transport emissions have grown by about 20% and today, transport accounts for more than 20% of europe’s total emissions and this continues to grow.
it strikes the right balance between the three main policy objectives that cannot be considered in isolation: firstly, achieving environmental benefits, secondly, bringing savings for consumers and finally, safeguarding employment and competitiveness in the european union.
our proposal will also bring significant environmental benefits.
the proposal is projected to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from road transport by around 22% between 2005 and 2030, contributing to our necessary efforts to implement the paris agreement.
we have already agreed, or proposed, additional policies which will further reduce emissions from this sector, including the recently agreed renewable energy directive, as well as the proposal on co2 standards for heavy duty vehicles, the revised eurovignette and the clean vehicles and combined transport directives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, transport accounts for more than 20% of co2 emissions in europe, and 70% of these emissions come from road transport.
as a result, air pollution causes the premature death of 500,000 people in europe each year.
to meet the cop 21 targets, emissions would need to be cut by 70% by 2030. there, they propose a 45% reduction by 2030. it is better than the commission's proposal, but it is far from enough.
i say to you, we, the european parliament, cannot compromise the climate, the health of our citizens or the 12 million jobs in the automotive sector in europe that are already threatened by international competition.
there is an urgent need to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions in all sectors, but particularly in transport, whose co2 emissions have been rising for the last 30 years.
the earth is suffocating, it is too hot: we cannot afford to wait until 2030 to actually reduce co2 emissions from cars and vans!
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's energy policy.
it has a socio-ecological-environmental dimension: land use planning, rural development, healthcare, equine therapy and a sector that creates jobs that cannot be relocated.
on behalf of my colleague mr avramopoulos, who is to represent the commission at the eu-western balkans conference in tirana today, i would like to answer your questions as follows, on the basis that we are trying to formulate a balanced migration policy as a commission, achieving solidarity, sustainability and smart solutions also and especially at local and regional level.
we should find a sustainable solution, not just for each individual case, for each individual ship.
we also want to work in the municipalities that are particularly affected - i can give you an example: samos, where we have a so-called hotspot - to improve the infrastructure - water, waste water, infrastructure in general - and where we can offer european funds so that the municipalities and cities that do more, which should also do more geographically, are relieved of the burden of what they have to do to organise a decent life for people who arrive in europe.
it is true that they will not stop there, especially if we consider the upcoming climate changes.
we consider economic, social and environmental objectives to be sincere objectives which you are constantly exploiting for the benefit of your project without frontiers.
i am thinking of course of the flexibility it provides for the use of criteria other than financial minimum and the consideration of issues such as social inclusion or environmental quality in the selection of tenders.
this new package is an additional tool to raise awareness of these possibilities, to improve the training of public purchasers and to ensure that public procurement plays its full role in promoting a more virtuous and sustainable economic activity.
mr president, mr council representative, commissioners, as rapporteur for the european parliament at cop 21, co-rapporteur for cop 23 and member of the parliament's delegation to cop 24 in poland, i believe that universal access to sustainable energy in developing countries must be one of the priorities of this cop 24. access to energy in a safe and predictable way is the challenge of the 21st century, particularly for the african continent, which will have 4.5 billion inhabitants by the end of this century, compared with 1.3 billion at present, or nearly 40% of the world's population.
commissioner, at the second edition of the 'one planet summit' organised by the president of the french republic, emmanuel macron, on 26 september in new york, the european commission committed to investing €44 billion in clean energy projects in africa.
mr president, there is obviously a link between the climate issue and the biodiversity issue, but i will concentrate on the biodiversity issue, since that is my subject.
the second point - and i insist on this - is that we will soon realize that it is not possible today to preserve biodiversity if we do not challenge one of the fundamental rules we have unfortunately set for ourselves, namely the pursuit of profit at any cost.
it is impossible to have an approach where the only values are money and profit and at the same time protect biodiversity.
my mandate will be very clear: to give all of european society, young people, project promoters, businesses, researchers and farmers, the means they need to make our europe live in a dignified, effective way, in line with the current economic and ecological challenges.
territorial cohesion, the fight against youth unemployment, the reception of refugees, aid for the energy transition, the fight against global warming: progress requires ambitious funding.
the rest of the budget is not surprising: it gives the lion's share to defence and security, it provides no additional means for the fight against poverty and it is not up to the new requirements for the fight against climate change and biodiversity loss.
protecting europeans means taking the migration challenges into account and having the appropriate funds to control the external borders frontex and aso , establishing constructive relations with african countries, the balkans, the middle east, and preserving the climate.
yet agricultural policies can be structural in the fight against climate change, even though we are not even reaching the 20% of commitments made before the paris conference was signed.
i believe that we in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety have adopted a coherent report which defends the interests of european citizens, which takes account of the strong constraints of suppliers, member states and local authorities, but which also strongly supports the european commission's risk-based approach.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety called for greater transparency and public information on the quality of water supplied.
we know that endocrine disruptors have an influence in the environment.
with time frames ranging from a century to a millennium to degrade, and exponential use in our societies, this plastic waste is everywhere, especially in our oceans and our atmosphere.
recycling is necessary but not sufficient, since the production of recycled plastic requires the introduction of new plastic, contributing to the permanent increase in waste.
mr president, just a few days after the report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change was presented, the department of aude in south-west france has just experienced unprecedented flooding.
as the un conference meets today in katowice for cop 24, we must remember that there is an urgent need for collective action on climate.
i would also like to say emphatically that we must jointly review the european union solidarity fund, and in particular the trigger point for this fund, because the further we go, the more these climate incidents are affecting limited areas with unprecedented intensity.
we need genuine cooperation on the big challenges such as the protection of external borders and energy and environmental issues.
we cannot claim to want to preserve our ecosystem while continually encouraging unrestrained transcontinental free trade, which is by its very nature profoundly anti-ecological.
i refer you to article 191 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which provides that 'union policy on the environment shall aim at a high level of protection ... and shall be based on the precautionary principle'.
finally, i fully agree with my colleague kathleen van brempt that you need to rethink economic governance in the light of the sustainable development goals.
the commission is also proposing that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment.
yes, our citizens have a right to security, and new technologies can help to achieve this, but not at any price, not by developing a climate of widespread suspicion at the expense of fundamental rights, especially in the wrong hands.
we're already in the midst of a major environmental disaster, with billions of tons of plastic accumulating in nature and our oceans, and, less visible but just as harmful, these microplastics that end up in the air we breathe and the salt we eat.
the urgent task today is to rebuild this european construction by bringing the peoples together in a new social, democratic and ecological treaty to face the enormous challenges that lie ahead: building the europe of work, fighting tax evasion, taxing the giants who do not contribute to the common good in the european union, defending and creating new public services, using the monetary creation of the central bank for human development and environmental transition, and being an actor in global cooperation for disarmament and peace.
all measures to combat pollution, including plastic today, they vote against; the european union's border security is being strengthened, and they are voting against it, ladies and gentlemen!
it has a direct impact on our environment and our diet, in short, on our health.
it is therefore a comprehensive, cross-cutting approach that promises to transform the world of animal health for the better and in a sustainable way.
in particular, with its particular approach to health and environmental issues, europe is thus firmly at the forefront of the fight against antibiotic resistance.
the commission's proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances are not in line with the commission's proposals.
and then i'll also say that we were concerned about the environment.
as such, the text provides for a better assessment of the impact of these substances on the environment.
without strong action and a long-term vision on the evolution of road transport pricing, which accounts for over 70% of transport emissions, we will not achieve our climate targets and we will not respond to the urgent need to better tackle the scourge of air pollution that is affecting our citizens.
in the face of these emergencies, attitudes are changing and road users are becoming more aware and sensitive to the environmental impact of road transport.
the extension of the scope of application to all heavy and light vehicles, the progressive ban on vignette systems and the obligation to adjust tolls according to co2 emissions are all measures which i support and which are reflected in the report which will be put to the vote tomorrow.
on the 'polluter pays' principle, the transport committee voted in favour of the application of specific charges linked to pollution standards from 2021 for heavy vehicles and from 2026 for light vehicles.
this proposal will make it possible to take environmental and social costs into account in road pricing and will ensure that around 50% of the trans-european road network is covered by the 'polluter pays' principle.
secondly, i am convinced that if we introduce a mandatory reduction in toll revenue to combat the deterioration of road networks and to promote the transition to sustainable mobility, we will strengthen the acceptability of tolls.
the report of the ipcc (intergovernmental panel on climate change), which has shown an increasingly worrying situation in terms of climate, and we know that transport is unfortunately an element that is not under control, and the morandi bridge tragedy, which has shown that infrastructure perhaps deserves a little more attention from our member states.
but can we let the situation deteriorate, with rising emissions, major consequences for human health in terms of particulate matter and degraded infrastructure with safety concerns that put human lives at risk?
we said: "we have to save the climate", "the house is burning but we look away", "we are dancing on a volcano", "all the indicators are red!"
today we have a lever for action: a charge on heavy goods vehicles and all vehicles, calculated on the kilometres travelled and taking into account pollution and noise.
citizens who can no longer breathe because of air pollution, citizens who see their infrastructure collapse, like the genoa bridge, citizens who still expect their elected officials to implement the 'polluter pays' principle to save the climate, because it is common sense.
the climate is not waiting, nor is our responsibility or our safety.
the recent special report from the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) on the impacts of climate change is yet another wake-up call in that respect.
among many other things, this means faster deployment of more efficient transport systems, low— and zero—emission vehicles and increased use of alternative energy sources.
public authorities are already today leading the way in the fight against climate change.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the only clean vehicle available on the market today is the bicycle: it has zero co2 emissions.
and the way is open with this text on vehicles purchased by public procurement, because the transport sector still accounts for 23% of co2 emissions in europe, because most of that 23% is emitted on the road, because the ipcc (intergovernmental panel on climate change) report recently said that we are approaching the last limit to save the climate and because public procurement is 14% of european gdp, a major lever for the transition to sustainable mobility.
the agenda calls for the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the implementation of the regulations on medical devices and in vitro diagnostic medical devices, put to the vote by mairead mcguinness, biljana borzan, boleslaw g. piecha, gesine meissner, kateřina konečnà, margrete auken, piernicola pedicini, joëlle mélin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000085/2018 b8-0416/2018) (2018/2790(rsp)).
this, at least, adds to the climate of mistrust after the many scandals of the past.
we know very well that the lowest price is necessarily the lowest price: the lowest price in social, economic and environmental terms.
so i would like to see the preservation of jobs and industries as an objective reason for a fair market, because a fair market is only fair if it is social and sustainable, respectful of the planet and the environment.
madam president, commissioner, i think that the text we are about to vote on is a historic text because it is truly a comprehensive draft, containing more than eight legislative proposals, including the proposal for a regulation on the governance of the energy union.
it also lays the foundations for compatibility with the paris agreement and, in the light of the latest report of the ipcc (intergovernmental panel on climate change), indicates that a temperature increase of 1.5oc is achievable.
then we will set the targets for 2030, which will have to be consistent with what we want to achieve in 2050. the governance text says that greenhouse gas emissions will be zero.
so that means that all the greenhouse gases that we produce will have to be absorbed in parallel.
we often talk about 2050, but i think that at the level of the european union, with the contribution of the developed countries, it would be good if it were 2040. this therefore requires consistency with the energy efficiency targets of 32.5% and renewable energy targets of 32%.
for greenhouse gases, we said 40%, but everyone knows that if we set renewable energy and efficiency as our targets, we have to go up to 45%, and if the target is zero carbon emissions by 2050, we have to go much further.
madam president, if the fight against climate change is necessary, it is a pity that this noble cause is being misled.
in the context of the energy union, the energy transition becomes a pretext for the european commission to take power over energy issues.
energy is essential to the functioning of our businesses, to the lives of individuals and to travel, and is by its nature one of the main strategic policies of a state.
the energy efficiency objectives are in the common interest and are one of the few positive points in the texts discussed today.
similarly, binding renewable energy targets are a serious attack on national sovereignty.
in the case of france, they do not take into account the high presence of decarbonised nuclear energy in our energy mix.
with intermittent energies requiring fossil fuels to compensate for their production variations, we risk the paradox of rising co2 emissions.
governance also requires member states to submit national energy and climate plans.
it also gives the commission binding powers on the strategic choices of the energy mix.
finally, beyond this energy union, it should be noted that the fight against massive pollution due to excessive free trade and the resulting transport is never mentioned.
but there is a fight ahead against one of the main sources of co2 emissions.
we have agreed on a reasonable and reasoned approach, which reflects our group's vision in the negotiations, namely ambitious but realistic environmental objectives, which are in line with the paris agreement.
building an energy europe means encouraging all actors to reduce their energy consumption, but also accompanying them towards a more sustainable consumption.
environmental protection and business competitiveness must therefore go hand in hand, and the objectives set out in this text open up opportunities for both private and public actors to devise the solutions of tomorrow.
but building the europe of energy also means guaranteeing our independence and enabling us to be competitive in the global arena.
the challenges have changed, of course: it is no longer about making peace within the european union but, ultimately, making peace with our future, making peace with the environment and then, of course, building an economy and creating jobs within the european union.
renewable energy is economic and industrial rationality if we can protect our industries, especially from chinese competition.
renewable energy has a cost that has been divided by two in ten years for wind, by seven for photovoltaics while the cost of nuclear has been multiplied by three.
renewable energy is obviously a matter of social rationality.
one million jobs are created every year around the world around renewable energy, that is two to three times more jobs per unit of production than fossil fuels or nuclear energy.
renewable energy is also synonymous with rational planning of our territories.
investing in our territories with the energy transition is the geopolitical rationale, it is the citizen's rationale.
finally, we are giving citizens access to renewable energy.
– madam president, in my introductory statement i underlined how important these dossiers are for the clean energy transition in addressing the climate change challenge, considering the important contribution of energy efficiency and renewable energy to the greenhouse gas emission reductions, and how much progress we are making for setting the framework for our ambition until 2030. this will be good for the planet, the economy and consumers.
after a similar call from european union leaders this march, the commission is preparing a european union long-term strategy on greenhouse gas emission reduction, which is due to be adopted by the college of commissioners at the end of this month.
in our strategy we will factor in the latest findings from science and in particular the intergovernmental panel on climate change’s special report on global warming of 1.5°c.
we will look at what should be required to achieve the paris goals and we will explore different pathways as required by article 15 of the governance regulation, including the scenarios to achieve net zero emissions.
i trust that in your vote tomorrow and in the remaining negotiations that lie ahead, you will maintain your ambitious approach and thereby remain such an important player in defining our future energy policy fit for the 21st century and instrumental for achieving our climate commitments under the paris agreement.
this project is forward-looking, it aims to protect the planet and humanity, it proposes energy independence - as my colleague mentioned in his speech on geostrategy - and at the same time it can respond to energy poverty.
the small size of the fish certainly affects their commercialisation, but it also raises the question of pollution, which has never been so serious, especially in the mediterranean, and which also affects the plankton, the main food of these fish.
the european union would be more useful if it urgently stopped the discharge of polluting chemicals into the mediterranean rather than making a series of major environmental declarations.
a europe with variable geometry, sometimes in the direction of sustainability, sometimes that of irresponsibility?
i regret this for mrs tomašić, because i respect her work very much and she has worked very hard , but i urge you to vote tomorrow on amendments 93, 94, 95, 96 and 97 to bring the mediterranean into the era of sustainability.
this is first and foremost a humanitarian issue, which is included in the fourth sustainable development goal.
the field reports and the eurobarometer surveys converge: the priorities expressed are the fight against poverty and exclusion, employment, social protection and public health, the climate emergency, migration.
the energy transition cannot be reduced to taxes on fuels.
we demand that the union's pillars of agricultural policy and cohesion be maintained, we strengthen flagship programmes such as erasmus+ and the youth employment initiative, and we guarantee a target of 30% of european spending on the fight against climate change.
it intends to take on new priorities: youth, with the tripling of the appropriations allocated to the erasmus programme and the doubling of the appropriations allocated to the youth employment initiative, but also digital research, climate, defence and migration.
it is also at the heart of a number of other problems, including environmental problems.
for the environment and climate action, there will be just €2 billion more, whereas much more ambition would have been needed to achieve the paris conference objectives and to really embark on the energy transition.
no, it is not acceptable to reduce the budget for the common agricultural policy at a time when our food, biodiversity and human health issues have never been more pressing.
yes, we need to address climate challenges, migration challenges, human health challenges, youth unemployment and peacekeeping, as well as energy issues.
we urgently need to provide the european union with its own resources and a real budget, to create without delay a tax on the digital giants and on the multinationals that enrich themselves without relying on our european territories, to accept and accelerate the introduction of a tax on financial transactions, as well as a carbon tax at the borders.
so here are my proposals: to make the forthcoming departure of mrs merkel coincide with the abandonment of the dogma of austerity and to adopt a budget that is in line with social and environmental needs.
reporting for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, mrs lulling, has just said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the real question is whether, today, in the face of the challenges of globalisation, member states, acting alone at national level, still have the power to assume certain prerogatives of sovereignty in the fields of defence, security, digital, migration, climate.
worse, an exodus of tens of millions of so-called "climate refugees" will soon follow!
it will help to jointly turn migration from a european and national challenge into a shared one, and into an opportunity for human development, in line with the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
calls on all meps to vote on this report, in order to formally call on the commission to legislate on this matter before march 2019.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- the report by pilar del castillo vera, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european electronic communications code (recast) (com (2016) 0590 c8-0379/2016 2016/0288 (cod)) (a8-0318/2017), and- the report by evžen tošenovský, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a body of european regulators for electronic communications (com (2016) 0591 c8-0382/2016 2016/0286 (cod)) (a8-0305/2017).
the agenda calls for a debate on the report by mr bas eickhout, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down performance standards for co2 emissions from new heavy-duty vehicles (com ((2018) 0284 c8-0197/2018 2018/0143 cod)) (a8-0354/2018).
the ipcc (intergovernmental panel on climate change), the group of scientists who regularly warn us about climate change, warned us.
we have little time to keep global warming at just 1.5 degrees celsius instead of 2 degrees celsius.
because the climate-related risks, at this 1.5°c warming, are certainly much lower than with a 2°c scenario.
that means net zero co2 emissions by 2050 globally, well before 2050. did you hear me?
you see, colleagues, this is a challenge for the climate, it is a challenge for employment, but it is also innovative for clean vehicles.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, throughout this mandate we have constantly revised the european regulatory framework for the control and reduction of vehicle emissions.
after the revision of pollutant emissions from light vehicles, after the setting up of a committee of inquiry, after the tightening of approval and testing rules, and after the adoption of new co2 emission reduction targets for light vehicles, we will finally regulate, for the first time, co2 emissions from all heavy vehicles.
we must also move towards real-world testing to avoid future co2 emissions fraud scandals, as has been the case with pollutant emissions.
finally, i want to speak directly to the citizens of europe and tell them that the european union is acting and protecting you to limit the impact of emissions on your daily life.
i want to tell them that we in the european parliament are doing our job to respond to the climate emergency and to fight against the scourge of air pollution.
finally, the fourth area is sustainable mobility.
you see, ladies and gentlemen, that there are only advantages to taking the train, which is more attractive for our health, for our climate, for the wallets of european citizens and, i would add, for european jobs, because we are making our own train in europe and its industrial jobs must be preserved on our territory.
the reality is that neither the member states nor the european commission are applying article 191 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which provides that the union's policy on the environment shall aim at a high level of protection and be based on the precautionary principle.
madam president, commissioner, one of the most serious ecological and health crises in the european union is affecting the outermost regions of guadeloupe and martinique, which have been exposed, as you know, for decades to a very toxic persistent organic pollutant: chlordecone.
it is, however, clear that the northward spread of ticks and adaptation of altitude are associated with climate change and land-use change.
and then there is the training of doctors, who often lack knowledge of environmental health issues.
the gap then separates man and nature, since the hunt for predators, which is essential to the ecosystem, will be followed by the proliferation of certain parasites.
madam president, while parliament is debating the environment, air pollution and cars, a new citizens' movement has been born in france: the yellow vests, supported by 80% of the french.
but it is globalisation that has fostered pollution, through the mass importation of products designed on the other side of the world.
shipping using very poor quality fuel with emissions of sulphur oxide, nitrogen oxide and fine particulate matter is much worse than diesel.
madam president, i thank the commissioners for finally presenting a long-term strategy, but you have proposed eight scenarios, only the last two of which are aimed at zero emissions by 2050. these rely on techniques of apprentice sorcerers to capture huge and unrealistic amounts of carbon, or even to remove it from the atmosphere.
if we want to show the rest of the world that the european union is still the climate champion and to ensure that we stay below 1.5 degrees, the first priority is to reduce our emissions.
the bar needs to be raised to achieve a zero-emission economy in the european union by 2040. that's what it means to be a leader on climate change.
on the other hand, the latest report by the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) calls for rapid and far-reaching transitions to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees.
the climate change is here.
let's be ambitious: we need to cut emissions by 65 percent compared to 2010 if we really want to achieve greenhouse gas neutrality.
following the alarming conclusions of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc), the european commission has decided to accelerate the achievement of the paris agreement targets by 2050. the peoples of europe will have to atone for what has structured their way of life for a century and do penance.
so i'm going to make some proposals: first, to reduce greenhouse gases and to finance the ecological transition, we need to tax global flows before we tax people.
finally, we must adopt a sensible protectionism based on sound environmental standards which will give our companies a competitive edge over their foreign competitors.
trade, to be sustainable and to have a future, must be fair.
the wto must now respond to and take into account current and future challenges such as digital technology, trade in services, the role of smes as drivers, the fight against climate change and gender equality.
this deadlock seriously threatens the sustainability of the wto and here too we are counting on european momentum to find a solution.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
mr president, commissioner, in the face of the climate emergency, in the face of the sixth wave of species extinction that the life programme is supposed to stem, the european union has decided to invest just 0.4% of its budget for the next seven years.
this means that you do not consider ecology to be a priority, when it calls for the mobilization of exceptional resources to initiate ecological planning.
each time it is to protect citizens from pollution and that is very good but it is even better if we do not forget the employees.
so, ladies and gentlemen, our aim is to take responsibility and finally, in this parliament, we will understand that we must reconcile health and the environment.
finally, more energy and money must be invested in research programmes: they can enable us to develop alternative processes that are as efficient for business as they are harmless to people.
i would also like to strongly condemn the european right which, in the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, showed its true colors, mr president, by giving priority to the protection of intellectual property rights over the precautionary principle and the health of 500 million europeans.
unemployment, especially among young people, remains extremely high and the challenge for the european union in the coming years will be to ensure that our citizens have the skills to face the new digital challenges and the energy transition.
this is dangerous, this is not sustainable.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the answer is 'blue card'.
for example, an environmental activist who only denounces a disastrous nuclear waste disposal project in bure, france, should not be subjected to the state's use of counter-terrorism.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the commission has already taken action on this.
fair trade agreements that respect our nations, our companies, their employees and the environment are what our compatriots and the peoples of europe legitimately demand and demand, no more, no less, but no less.
there is a problem in believing that others will continue to provide for our security, particularly through nato, which is an organisation that undoubtedly has many merits, but whose reliability of alliances is not entirely guaranteed, and in any case does not exhaust all the work that needs to be done in terms of crisis management in our environment.
in the area of climate action, we are increasing the life programme to help achieve the 20% target as mainstream proportionally in the budget by the end of 2020. the refugee facility is secure.
we have obtained reinforcements in our priorities: youth, research, climate change, the reception of refugees, and we will vote the approval of this budget head on.
this is a major text we are voting on, as it will decide how europe will finance its transport infrastructure for the next ten years, until 2027. the next ten years will be crucial for the ecological and social transition, because we have no choice.
we need to make low-carbon, clean and inclusive mobility for both suburban and rural areas.
this is the fifth, but last, budget of the mandate which began in 2014. it is probably the one that best meets the expectations and priorities of our parliament: jobs, growth, youth, innovation, migration, climate, security, defence.
this social grumbling and this middle-class exasperation, i understand them and let me tell you that they have nothing to do with the problems of energy transition.
stop pitting economic, social and environmental issues against each other and take as a new political matrix a combination of these elements in the light of the sustainable development goals, which were voted in 2015 at the united nations.
an unfair concentration of wealth, the growing poverty of the majority, worrisome human health, the destruction of biodiversity and unprecedented global warming.
the enemy is therefore not climate policy but neoliberalism, starting with these 100 companies responsible for 71% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
according to the latest ipcc report, we have just 12 years to reduce these emissions, and produce an ambitious climate policy and social justice.
the international labour organisation, for example, estimates that a rapid transition to clean energy could create 18 million additional jobs worldwide by 2030. there is no shortage of proposals: taxing the 10 billion annual profits of oil companies, taxing jet fuel and heavy fuel oil from container ships, allocating all environmental taxes to the ecological transition, mobilising bank credit up to the european central bank, developing a real tax system.
the debate today calls for a major refocus: citizens and workers are as aware as we are of the need to protect our environment.
you talk about ecological transition and environmental protection to avoid global warming, but to make this approach sincere, it would have been more honest to denounce, for example, the free trade agreements that are constantly being negotiated with everyone by a european commission more concerned with the future of free trade than with the future of the planet.
challenging the absurd economic model of globalisation would be the first truly ecological step.
madam president, when i see this title, for the involvement of workers and citizens for a sustainable planet, i think we have a good example in france, where the taxation of fuel has triggered a popular insurrection known as the yellow vests.
this must nevertheless make us question the europe we want to build, because there is still fiscal and social harmonization for an ecological and solidary transition of the continent.
so it is imperative that tax and environmental justice become our new credo if we are to succeed and if we are to engage citizens and workers.
our century faces an unprecedented challenge: adapting to a natural climate cycle of warming after a small ice age, but also wasting 200 years of globalisation, blind and uncontrolled industrialisation.
this was done with no respect for man or his environment.
it is ridiculous to talk about the energy transition when we put the plow before the oxen.
let's start by also sharing energy storage technology, sustainable power grids, especially in africa - this will clearly limit immigration and the import of blind terrorists.
let us give everyone energy that allows them to have affordable housing and transportation and not a luxury that means that if you heat up, you no longer have to pay rent.
working for a just transition means designing an ecological transition in all its dimensions: social, fiscal, economic and environmental.
what is happening in france shows us that there will be no ecological transition without social justice.
the people who are protesting are not against the ecological transition, they are not against the climate goals we have adopted, but they are against the social injustice that results from liberal policies that undermine the acceptability of the ecological transition.
nor will there be an ecological transition without fiscal justice.
you make great speeches about fighting climate change, but that doesn't stop you from voting for the most deadly climate agreement ever.
you make great speeches about biodiversity, but that doesn't stop you from slaughtering whales.