mr president, wednesday’s votes are an important opportunity to put europe at the forefront of the fight against climate change and the fight against energy poverty.
friends of the earth has estimated that 125 million europeans live in energy poverty, and we know that energy poverty disproportionately affects our most vulnerable people.
three out of four buildings in europe are energy-inefficient, and account for 36% of our emissions.
it is vital that we set a binding energy-efficiency target of 40%.
for every 1% target increase, three million homes can be renovated and seven million people lifted out of energy poverty.
on 29 january 2017, we launched the european energy poverty observatory.
energy efficiency is the first fuel, and with the 40% binding energy efficiency target and greater ambition on renewables we can lift people out of energy poverty.
we can tackle climate change and halve our emissions and have cleaner air.
we can put energy efficiency as the driver of jobs and growth.
i call on every group to vote for the strongest possible measures for clean energy for the benefit of all our citizens, especially our energy poor.
– thank you, and thank you very much to our colleagues in gue for their support of energy poverty throughout this file.
we worked our hardest in terms of the definition of energy poverty.
i say to the commissioner that i know it is one of the first tasks of the energy poverty observatory to make sure that we adopt a definition of energy poverty that can be adopted throughout eu member states.
– mr president, in terms of the energy governance file we have deliberately included local energy communities and the rental market.
mr president, all reports on the clean energy plan seem to be focused on two sole objectives, decarbonising europe’s economy and fighting climate change.
we all know it is a pure illusion to believe that these objectives will help europe’s energy independence by enhancing energy security and energy supply whilst increasing job opportunities.
in fact, intermittent renewable energy sources, such as wind power, are unreliable: they create temporary green jobs.
independence and freedom from absurd targets will allow britain to rejoin the world and help protect the environment sensibly.
– the renewable energy directive achieves its aim of establishing a strong framework for enshrining the paris agreement in eu law.
we must keep the promises we made in paris on carbon emissions, energy efficiency and renewable energy.
all across wales, communities have developed innovative solutions for energy-efficient homes, and to reduce fuel poverty.
– mr president, if the stated aims of the common fisheries policy are to ensure that fishing and aquaculture activities are environmentally and economically sustainable, then why are we proposing to relax the rules on electro-pulse fishing?
electro-pulse is a technique that is blamed for breaking the backs of cod, eradicating molluscs and gastropods, causing internal bleeding and leaving the marine environment a dessert.
in recent weeks we’ve seen a lot of propaganda outlining the supposed environmental credentials of electro-pulse fishing, but the fact is that little independent non-partisan science has been completed.
in the 13 studies conducted since electro-pulse was allowed, only three have looked at the effects on the marine environment.
the fact is, other than a small reduction in overall fuel usage there is no environmental benefit.
yet there is growing empirical and anecdotal evidence that electro-pulse fishing is doing catastrophic damage to europe’s marine environment, fishes and fishing communities.
so i urge you, if you put the marine environment above profit and care about the economic and social benefit of … (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, the stated aim of the macro-regional strategy is to provide a platform for transnational cooperation between member states, as well as with third countries.
despite the united kingdom’s intended departure, issues will remain: environmental, transport, ireland, and – as we saw in the debate earlier this evening – issues related to marine communities.
madam president, as a feminist i am very happy about this report because it underlines the gender aspects of climate change, and encourages the commission and the member states to take them into account.
i am happy to see that the report highlights the fact that women are indeed more affected by climate change than men, especially when it comes to displacement.
more than 50% of the current refugee and migration flow comprises women and children and many of them are climate refugees.
so i would also like to underline that involving women in decision-making on climate change is absolutely necessary if we are to find efficient solutions.
when a country that we are normally able to criticise so hugely, china, introduces a ban, and the european union is not able to follow suit, it does bring into question what does the european union mean by the term ‘sustainability’.
it is my belief that a sustainable peace process is impossible without addressing these issues.
but i strongly believe it is incumbent on those of us who are in favour of removing barriers to trade to ensure that this does not undermine human rights, labour, environmental or animal welfare standards.
we have tried the light—touch approach to trade with sustainable development, but it is clear that our existing tsd model is not fit for purpose.
mr president, the commission’s trade for all strategy calls for a trade agenda consistent with european values of high social and environmental standards and respect for human rights.
i urge the commission to strengthen the sustainability criteria and civil society participation in existing and future trade agreements and to support the binding treaty initiative.
this will put the eu on the right side of history in terms of human rights, social standards and environmental protection in our trade agreements.
citizens are waking up to the real human and environmental implications of trade, and we need the eu to uphold the highest standards in global supply chains and value chains.
trade deals set the rules of engagement, and therefore good standard—setting and civil society participation is crucial to ensure a balanced and fair environment for workers, consumers and companies.
our sustainable development chapters are therefore absolutely central and of vital importance.
i recognise that we learn by doing, but what we are learning from our current sustainable development chapters is that they are inadequate to address labour violations and environmental degradation in our relations with our trading partners.
the civil, workers’, european, environmental, linguistic and human rights of all citizens needs to be protected and indeed enhanced.
producing rapeseed is in terms of the ratio of tonnage to energy about five times more costly than using palm oil, and yet it is being presented to us as being all about saving virgin forests and orangutans, and so on, to the extent that if there is any interest in malaysia and the other producing countries in this kind of ban, it comes from the large producers who are trying to squeeze their smaller competitors out of business.
i am proud to back increased binding targets for renewable energy and energy efficiency.
i believe that britain needs to retain membership of the internal energy market, and our government needs to set a long-term consistent vision for energy, drop its opposition to onshore, and embrace these ambitious targets.
mr president, many members of this house seem to have forgotten the devastation caused by the renewable energy directive in 2009, when binding targets for biofuels led to a sharp spike in land grabs and deforestation to grow crops for biofuels.
biofuel crops grown on peatland and deforested land contribute almost as much in carbon emissions as fossil fuels.
i welcome the ban on palm oil for fuel, but crops like soybean, rapeseed and sunflower have carbon footprints that are almost as high as oil from tar sands.
the 35% ceiling on biofuels by 2030 can be celebrated, but it is the fine detail in this directive that will have those in the biofuel lobby rubbing their hands in glee as they prepare to cash in on the land of the world’s most vulnerable people, land that should be managed for the good of the climate and for biodiversity.
but we all have to accept, and there is common agreement, that we have probably got to the point where – a bit like all of our issues around climate change – it is time that we stopped just taking the benefits and realised that there are some pretty heavy downsides.
– madam president, my party and i strongly value products, materials and resources in our economy, and we believe that these should be kept in use for as long as possible in order to minimise the generation of waste in our environment.
it’s a total waste.
this is necessary if we wish to establish a sustainable partnership with china, our second biggest trading partner.
after increasing to 2% in early 2017 due to a rise in energy prices, headline inflation has fluctuated since may last year between 1.3% and 1.5%.
moreover, a stronger economy generates greater volumes of sustainable bank lending.
despite the improved cyclical environment, improved market sentiment and the substantial strengthening of its shock absorption capacity, the european banking sector continues to face structural challenges, as you also state in your resolution.
additional efforts by banks, supervisors, regulators and legislators are needed to create an environment in which non-performing loans can be effectively managed and efficiently disposed of.
strengthening the resilience of the euro area financial sector also means adapting to a changing operating environment.
banks and financial institutions are not the only ones that have to prepare for an operating environment in a state of flux.
as greens, we are also determined to ensure that the ecb’s activities are consistent with our paris climate commitments and that the asset purchase programme does not undermine our rapid transition away from fossil fuels.
nothing is ever perfect, and the emission trading system (ets) is certainly no exception to that, but it remains the cornerstone of our eu policy to combat climate change and we have done our best to agree an ambitious update.
we tackled many problems – from a carbon price that was clearly too low to make the market function to the extremely difficult issue of striking the balance between our environmental ambition and the protection of energy-intensive european industry.
we have changes to benchmarks and carbon leakage lists, offering a fine balance between carbon leakage protection and ambition.
well, for me, there are two clear things here: the important issue of environment performance standards – we did our best, we made advances but we didn’t get the specific, clear numerical limit we wanted – and the issue of shipping.
so we have to bring ourselves back to basics and remember that the cap-and-trade system gives us the opportunity for an increased carbon price, which creates the incentive for industry to invest.
whatever comes of that, i hope it will complement it well, that my own member state will continue to be an exemplar in terms of carbon-reduction investment and that we will be able to continue to work together in the happy spirit that we have done.
i understand his point of view that modern economies are undergoing a profound transition in the way they produce, transmit, store and use energy.
however, my party and i cannot ignore the fact that the report agrees with the foolish concept of decarbonising europe’s economy and achieving climate targets as stated in the paris agreement.
we cannot deny the importance of fossil fuel energy.
first of all, human activity contributes only 3% to the global carbon cycle.
furthermore, the emissions savings achieved by renewables have been exaggerated.
that means that backup is run intermittently and inefficiently, which means more fuel and more emissions.
alone, britain cannot face the common challenges of climate change, mass migration or international terrorism, for example.
madam president, i voted against this provisional agreement because the european union emissions trading scheme has been an unmitigated failure.
it has generated two billion excess tons of ozone damaging gases.
this provisional agreement, as usual, ducks the reality and promotes dangerous practices cloaked in commercial investment strategy, because the eu is compounded all of the problems i mentioned by strive towards alternative technologies for fossil fuel generation, notably carbon to help capture and storage, which are clearly demonstrated to be uneconomic and damaging.
i deplore the turkish attacks on afrin: this region has been a beacon of hope amidst the general despair, with the kurdish people establishing new models of inclusive democracy that champion gender equality and pluralism as well as respect for the environment.
we free them to make money, and we free the nation states so that each and every nation state can compete according to its ability, can make the right environment for its people to trade and make money in, and can each and every one of them unleash a real entrepreneurial spirit and allow the poor to get better conditions and more wealth for their families through hard work.
the compromise will increase the flexibility for the eib to switch amounts under the regional ceiling allocations from the current 10% between regions to 20%, but only in the direction of high priority regions for the union, in particular, ukraine and migration-response-related regions or any forthcoming challenges within the remaining part of the mandate 2014-2020. the climate-change dimension of the mandate is also reinforced.
it includes an increase of the target from 25% to 35% of total eib financing operations outside the eu by the year 2020. on taxation and non-cooperative jurisdictions, the compromise text will align with provisions agreed for the efsi 2.0 and the european fund for sustainable development legislative files.
the eib will continue to undertake the asset management of the guarantee fund while the commission will do the asset management of the new european fund for sustainable development guarantee fund.
and we have stepped up considerably our support for climate action.
having committed to providing a minimum of 25% climate action financing (and, by the way, we did 27-point-something in 2017), at 33% for external lending we are already almost reaching the objective of getting to 35% by 2020. so we are on a very good track in this respect.
don’t you see the problem – that handing money to people to create fake businesses is simply a waste of the taxpayers’ money?
one area where europe is lagging behind in terms of investment is the innovation sector, so i am particularly proud of the fact that in 2017 we managed to increase lending for innovation to close to eur 14 billion –that is at the heart of competitiveness and ultimately of sustained and sustainable growth.
moreover, in 2017 we financed close to eur 7 billion in environmental projects and eur 18 billion in infrastructure.
the eib once again met its target for climate action, with approximately eur 19 billion of financing, representing over 27% of total eib financing in 2017. but what i really want to draw your attention to is this.
and we already discussed the sustainable development goals and the climate goals in the previous debate.
the eib is an indispensable partner in financing infrastructure, supporting smes, boosting employment and delivering on climate action, sustainable transport and external policies.
rules have already been adopted to this effect in respect of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and european fund for sustainable development regulations and the external lending mandate decision.
in that regard the commission expects that the eib will improve its internal policies to reflect the new legal environment.
– there is considerable concern about eib investments that may lead to increased carbon dioxide emissions.
– mr president, with the commission focusing its attention on sustainable finance in 2018, it’s important to recall that the eib is a key actor in the successful implementation of the commission’s upcoming action plan.
however, the eib has not done as well as we would expect on climate action, even though it has just met its 25% target.
for instance, in 16 eu member states, eib support for climate action did not reach even the level of 20%.
climate action investment in 2016 was predominantly located in the eu’s stronger economies, and this seems to be the rule rather than the exception.
seventy per cent of efsi support for renewable energy was concentrated in just one country, belgium, while 80% of energy efficiency within the efsi was allocated to france, finland and germany.
these aren’t the countries that need the sort of support from this investment bank, and we need to spread the renewable investment wider and to the other economies in europe.
to ensure sustainability of investment in coordination with the commission, the eib needs to evaluate their national and collective public investment to ensure that the eu is on track to meet its climate change goals as agreed in paris within the next five years.
in order to achieve this the eib should only agree future lending compatible with the 1.5 °c climate limit.
the priority areas for the eib’s operations – innovation and skills, smes, climate and the environment and our infrastructure – encompass some of the most important priorities of the european union budget.
the low-carbon economy and the shift from the internal combustion engine will require substantial investment across the union in power network infrastructure.
when you talk about ordinary people, let’s talk about what this investment has delivered – like secondary schools in exotic places like yorkshire; like crossrail in london and the thames valley in my constituency; like the thames tideway tunnel; like smart meters for seven million homes in the united kingdom, which enables those people to save energy and pay less for their energy.
a proposed assessment by the commission in my view is a complete waste of taxpayers’ money at a time when there are far more important issues which we should be focusing upon in europe.
on the whole, the voters want to see a budget that is well managed and matches their priorities, a budget that provides security and well—functioning asylum and immigration systems, and a budget that encourages a cleaner environment, innovation and job creation.
they are more affected by climate change than men; they are more dependent on natural resources; and they play a significant role in ensuring food security for their communities.
finally, i am pleased that the commission is working with the support of parliament on a comprehensive study on parcel delivery, and the regulation underlines that standardisation work should include environmental considerations and require a first review two years after entry into force, including on affordability, consumer protection and standards issues.
the green summit follows extensive stakeholder consultation and brings together environmental experts, interest groups, partner agencies, academics and local people to accelerate greater manchester’s green ambitions.
young people are absolutely key to tackling climate changed, as proved by the eco group from st christopher’s high school in accrington, also in my constituency.
they know that the uk cannot tackle climate change alone.
the fight against climate change is a global challenge that we must keep fighting together with our european partners.
it’s very ironic to consider that this high—level event on such a crucial issue takes place in brazil, a country which is shifting to a dictatorship, where land-grabbing and disregard for environmental concerns are widespread.
madam president, as a british mep i am experiencing both sides of the brexit negotiations and what makes me really sad is that it is the european side that is active in protecting citizens’ rights and environmental standards, while the tories are using brexit to ride roughshod over them.
i refute it absolutely, and i would urge the house not to waste time on such nonsense.
we made it clear, firstly, that stronger monitoring mechanisms are needed to measure the contribution made by cohesion policy in fighting climate change; secondly, that greater autonomy is needed for cities so that they can adopt their own mitigation plans free from brussels’ interference; and thirdly, that support should be given to the collaboration between businesses and cities in spearheading green tech and decarbonisation.
– mr president, i think the employment report acknowledges the need to bring together the semester, the social pillar – as we were hearing – and also the sustainable development goals: i do not think we should forget those.
that would mean undertaking all the obligations of eu membership but with no say, which would be neither democratic nor sustainable.
it refers to companies voluntarily going beyond what the law requires to achieve social and environmental objectives during the course of its business activities.
however, it is important for the sustainability of the organisation that it diversify its revenues and increase its visibility and ensure full transparency and greater geographical balance in its selection process.
we need to deliver on sustainable development goals, not least of which is sdg 16 on good governance, and this would help tackle corruption and stop fuelling armed conflicts.
– madam president, ultimately, the goal of the developing world is long-term economic growth that is sustainable and which will lead to the reduction of poverty.
this cannot occur in an environment where corruption is commonplace.
mr president, across the european union, 10% of our carbon emissions are absorbed by our forest cover.
agriculture needs to deliver its part and the land use, land-use change and forestry (lulucf) text explicitly refers to agro-forestry and agro-ecology, as practices that can deliver on climate change.
wetlands, including peatlands, can absorb staggeringly high amounts of carbon.
the lulucf proposals also recognise the role of long-life harvested wood products and deadwood, both of which have the potential for storing carbon for long enough to be relevant for our climate action.
increasing the range of products to which harvested wood goes, including long-life engineered construction timbers, such as cross-laminated timber and laminated veneer lumber, can help countries improve their climate action.
the s&d recognises that the legislation falls short on forest land, but this new lulucf legislation means that how we use land is being recognised as of key importance in how we tackle climate change.
mr president, there are four greenhouse gases of the five that are produced by farmers, and one of those is called nitrous oxide.
so the way they can reduce their nitrous oxide emissions is to grow fewer leguminous crops.
there is another greenhouse gas called water vapour, and how do farmers emit this?
i just want to take this opportunity to look ahead rather than trawl through the details, and what is obvious as we reach the end of this climate package – or at least this iteration of the climate package – is that we cannot continue to work in this way.
madam president, responding to economic, social, environmental and democratic challenges requires a collective strategy in order to achieve social justice and develop a fair and inclusive model for the 21st century, which will put at the forefront, not only economic development but, more importantly, the collective and individual well-being of citizens.
policymakers in every democracy should engage in a regular and transparent dialogue with civil society and independent human rights actors, both as allies and as critical minds, and support the development of a sustainable environment for these actors to strengthen their role and perform their functions independently and effectively.
the eu budget can provide value added in upholding common european values such as democracy, freedom, the rule of law, fundamental rights, cultural diversity, equality, solidarity, sustainability and peace.
we ask that richer eurozone governments be honest with their voters that their taxes will be transferred to the budgets of poorer eurozone countries, possibly forever, for that is the way that currency and sustainable currency unions work.
today, they are extremely worried about the uk’s hostile environment, which pressures migrants to voluntarily return to their home countries.
we must continue to apply it, primarily in the areas of foreign and security policy: from the nuclear deal with iran to the middle east peace process, from afghanistan to the situation in the korean peninsula, or to other global issues such as climate change, the environment, migration, counterterrorism, or cooperation in the arctic or certain regional issues.
women also have a crucial role to play when it comes to peace-building, so involving them in the process is a way to ensure that peace is more sustainable and more inclusive.
a separate instrument for human rights and democracy guarantees funding for these key priorities in european external action and promotes key aspects of sustainable development, societal resilience and the root causes of migration.
the framework partnership agreement (fpa) provides now a formal underpinning by ministerial meetings to enhance cooperation and coordinate policies, and will see us working together to combat shared challenges – whether that be fighting the effects of climate change or combating international terrorism.
work on improving security in and around parliament has been undertaken and an environmental policy covering parliament has been accepted by the bureau.
today’s vote is about boosting bilateral cooperation on terrorism and serious crime, the environment and climate change, research and development; vital questions for our societies, and this is just the start.
plastic bottles make up a third of all plastic pollution in our seas, harming penguins, whales and fish.
the reason i was pleased to vote for this measure is largely because it gives a clearer definition of some of the concepts we are dealing with, with waste processing and recycling.
i’m hoping that that is going to lead to more recycling – i’m hoping that within a few years as much as 55% of our waste will in fact be recycled.
we should all be concerned as well about the environmental damage of this, particularly in cities with poor air quality.
this package creates a rigorous and transparent framework for approving and checking the cars on our roads for emissions and safety.
while emissions have caught the headlines recently, our new rules also guarantee safety standards.
new testing, too, will ensure that environmental protections are upheld.
it delivers for car owners, for the environment and for manufacturers, with standards fairly applied and appropriately applied across the board.
a good example of this is the use of raised beds in scandinavia to avoid brutal ground frosts, so presumably global warming is going to solve this problem for us.
this is done in the name of safety for human health and safety for the environment.
these are the wonders it does for human health, but the environment doesn’t get away unscathed either, because copper sulphate is bio- accumulant that slowly builds up in the soil.
madam president, the dieselgate scandal shows that consumers and the environment are the main victims of a car type-approval regime that cannot be relied upon and that has been subject to systematic abuse.
the new rules will require member states regularly to check cars circulating on their roads for compliance with relevant environmental and safety standards.
as the energy sector, which accounts for around 90% of venezuela’s exports, begins to shrink, we see food shortages continuing and domestic dissatisfaction growing.
also, as we work towards the goals of the paris climate targets, the bottlenecks to sustainable transport may prove to be bottlenecks in the power networks that we need to power that transport.
the sector has faced a number of challenges from all angles in recent times, such as volatility in domestic and international markets, climate and weather conditions, food supply chain issues and, of course, the decision taken by the people in the uk to leave the eu.
but it’s not just how laws affect small and medium-sized enterprises as some campaigners seem to sometimes imply, it is about how the legislation affects other stakeholders – consumers, workers, third parties, government finances, the environment.
this indicates that the sustainable finance agenda has moved beyond the realm of partisan discussion.
while we may continue to debate about how banks should be regulated and what is the appropriate level of profits for enterprises, there is no longer any argument about the fact that we need to embark urgently on a transition to a sustainable economy and that finance offers a powerful tool to accelerate that transition.
the urgent need to respond to the threat from climate change has led to innovation in the field of sustainable finance in different eu member states: the french law of disclosure, german leadership in the field of public investment in the energy transition, the bank of england’s timely action in encompassing the threat of financial stability from stranded assets, the swedish fsa’s ambitious agenda to integrate sustainability into its daily work, and the consideration of the threat to pensions and insurance from the tragedy of horizons by the netherlands.
the aim of the european parliament should be to encourage a race to the top on sustainable development, to take the best from this innovation across our union and to combine it into minimum standards for all, guiding investment to ensure a just and rapid transition towards a sustainable economy and society.
the sustainability transition is, as its name suggests, a dynamic environment.
this is true of the hugely exciting technological innovation as engineers and designers respond to the sustainability imperative, and so it needs to be in terms of how we define and measure sustainability.
our proposal would be for something that time limits the value of different assets, based on their sustainability potential measured by already existing indicators.
the systemic risk posed by stranded carbon assets could thus be avoided, an important first step towards sustainable finance, but we also need to eliminate other stranded assets from investment portfolios.
my report recommends extending the stranded assets concept to include fundamental ecological systems and services, so if an investment in intensive agriculture causes soil loss or the death of pollinators, it too should be considered a stranded asset.
when it comes to sustainable finance, my report makes clear that we look to our own institutions, particularly the ecb and the european investment bank, to set an example and to rise to the challenge of the paris agreement.
this must mean an end to any investment that locks us into fossil fuel infrastructure and the inclusion of esg (environmental, social and governance) goals in the ecb’s investment policy.
we welcome the excellent work of the commission’s expert group on sustainable finance and applaud its level of ambition.
finally, but crucially, we need to hold the line as politicians as those who will lose value as we move towards sustainability seek to undermine our resolve.
sustainability, responsibility and ethics should be at the core of our finances, as should all eu policies and actions, in line with the sustainable development goals.
i therefore welcome the focus of this report on green finances and the call to encourage the financing of projects which contribute to the fight against climate change.
mr president, the world abounds with examples of countries that have managed to treat their fish stocks as renewable resources: norway, iceland, new zealand or the falkland islands.
after brexit, the united kingdom will resume control of its great renewable resource.
if we import steel from countries that flout human rights and climate commitments, then we are destroying jobs at home while colluding in a race to the bottom.
the greens fought hard for the inclusion of social and environmental standards in the modernisation of the anti-dumping instruments, and we urge the commission to make use of these instruments.
to respond to trump’s decision to pull the us out of the paris agreement, we need to make progress on the idea of an import tariff on climate-busting steel.
this can ensure that taking action on the climate does not damage energy-intensive industries here, but it must be balanced by a meaningful and rising carbon price floor across the eu.
you speak about imposing tariffs on imports from around the world, and particularly those you consider to be nations that manufacture in a way that damages the climate.
we have in the european union high environmental and social standards and we are committed to further improvement.
the commission will consider third countries’ action on multilateral environmental agreements and core ilo conventions before accepting undertakings by exporting producers.
– mr president, even a few years ago, it seemed impossible that the eu would use trading measures to penalise those who are damaging the environment and exploiting workers.
today, we are delighted to say that the eu will include social and environmental standards within its anti-dumping measures.
this will now mean that goods produced with low labour standards or those that are harmful to the environment, such as the mining industry, will face investigation of their environmental impacts.
having effective trade defence instruments (tdis) is imperative because not only do we have an aggressive approach from china, which appears to be playing a global monopoly game in acquiring infrastructure and energy plants at strategic locations, but we also have an unpredictable president in the white house who changes global trade rules on a whim.
for me, the tdis should have been more ambitious, but i recognise that they are a first step that factors in social and environmental standards when determining trade dumping.
the commission simply can’t go on without giving us a detailed assessment of the impact of labour and environmental provisions in eu trade deals in particular.
i’d like to emphasise the importance of enforcement in terms of labour and environmental protections.
i would encourage the commission to heed this criticism in this report and engage on enforcement of trade and sustainable development chapters in a more constructive manner.
erdogan’s continued drift towards authoritarianism has seen the rule of law, a free media environment and turkey’s role as a reliable nato ally undermined.
madam president, this is a very timely debate ahead of this weekend’s european youth event or yo!fest, when 8 000 young people will take over parliament, filling it with their ideas, energy and hopes for the future.
indeed, this report recommends concrete measures to strengthen and improve the future eu youth strategy, in particular, the inclusion in the labour market of all young people through equal opportunities and also enabling measures to grant young people the right to live in a healthy environment with access to education and culture, which should be considered fundamental rights.
designing products that are more sustainable, that use less energy, is clearly common sense.
it is about helping people make better choices as consumers to buy products, whether they be televisions, whether they be coffee machines, whether they be laptops, that are more energy efficient, that are more sustainable, that been made in a more sustainable way.
it is key therefore that we make sure the most sustainable products on the market are also the most affordable products on the market.
this must also be an issue of social justice as well as environmental justice.
if a specific exemption is removed, we will see energy usage of certain lamps.
it would mean an immediate waste of existing equipment if that exemption was removed.
so i appeal to the goodwill and willingness of the commission to work positively to reach a sensible compromise on this specific issue, and a way forward, so we can find a low waste, low energy and more sustainable economy and protect live music and arts venues at the same time, because that would represent good, positive, cooperative policymaking and i know that it would be music to the ears of venues across the uk and other member states.
mr president, this report states that global warming is a real problem requiring clear and courageous decision—making, and yet there has been no discernible increase in global temperature since the late 1990s, despite an increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide.
it would appear that initial climate models have been too pessimistic, with empirical data temperatures diverging from those forecast 10 years ago and climate scientists now admitting that previous forecasting models had exaggerated the amount by which temperatures would rise.
in my opinion, it would be best to adopt a wait and see attitude rather than to continue with current unilateral eu energy and climate policies that are profoundly damaging to the european economy, causing industry closures and job losses.
mr president, a future—proofed education system should ensure the right of people of all ages and backgrounds, including refugees and migrants, to access quality education in a variety of indoor and outdoor learning environments, in informal, non—formal and lifelong learning, and including subjects such as learning for sustainability, social entrepreneurship and media literacy.
the larger group obviously being miffed that somebody pointed out the ecological failings contained in the original report.
as it happens, i largely support the second minority report as this highlights the destructive nature of battery-farmed fish on the local environment and the impact on inshore fisheries.
mr president, while us president trump claims to champion denuclearisation in one part of the world – signing a deal with north korea built on shaky grounds of twitter diplomacy and laced with vague, noncommittal wording – he abandons the strong, solid nuclear deal with iran: the product of years of negotiations by the international community, and the effectiveness of which is attested by at least 10 international atomic energy agency (iaea) reports.
this includes working together in the international arena to promote democracy and the rule of law to fight climate change, particularly critical in the pacific region, combating terrorism and tackling organised crime and corruption.
we cannot waste over eur 25 billion a year on inefficiencies.
madam president, eu macrofinancial assistance should, of course, support ukraine’s commitment to values shared with the union, including democracy, the rule of law, good governance, respect for human rights, sustainable development and poverty reduction.
the women and youth of ukraine are immensely talented: full of ideas and energy, and ready to step up to make the changes that are required in a 21st—century modern democracy.
the internet should support fair and sustainable trade and uphold human rights, and it should most definitely not be prey to those wishing to hijack democracy, such as was evidenced by the cambridge analytica, aig and facebook scandals that were behind the trump and brexit campaigns and the kenyan presidential election in august 2017, which was subsequently annulled by the supreme court.
even though i would treat some of the figures that are thrown around on job creation with caution, the potential for the creation of new jobs from circular markets is clear – as are, indeed, the sustainability benefits of moving from new materials in an extractive economy: they’re also self-evident.
secondly, central and local government will be vital, within that strategy, in underpinning the development of mature circular markets through sustainable procurement, as it will in sustainable waste management processes on which the circular economy will depend.
working within the parameters of eu waste directives and operating as a successful social enterprise, cumbria recycling diverts electronic waste away from landfill through the collection and sustainable reuse of electronics: waste that others may deem as useless.
cumbria recycling processes over 2000 tons annually of waste and electrical and electronic equipment for the reuse and sorting for recycling of raw materials.
in the post—brexit world, it will be hugely important for the uk to maintain its commitment to the highest environmental standards and also to continue to provide support for enterprises like cumbria recycling, who fundamentally understand the social return on investment that comes with the circular economy.
one after another the hackneyed phrases have been coming out, without thought or consideration: ‘protecting the environment’, ‘social justice’, ‘building a better europe’ – as though anyone is against building a better europe or as though anyone is against the environment!
if we think that there is environmental damage caused by waste or by pollution, it is absolutely our role to say ‘this is the minimum level, now over to you to see how to meet it’.
our friendship is of vital importance in political and economic relations, energy and security.
we need a comprehensive and sustainable approach to this humanitarian crisis because there is no realistic prospect of safe and voluntary return.
sadly, i fear some colleagues on the left of this house will have believed the lobbyists’ argument that funding arms protects jobs, but to defend these jobs that thrive on death and destruction, while ignoring the life-giving jobs that this same money could support in just and sustainable sectors, is a tragic failure of imagination.
madam president, the report states that we are facing an increased urgency for climate action and that there is a need for robust global implementation of the paris agreement.
yet there has been no discernible increase in global temperatures since the late 90s, despite an increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide.
to date, the eu’s implementation of the paris agreement, in conjunction with its climate policies, has seen large—scale carbon leakage from the eu to third countries, whose energy dependent industries, such as those producing ammonia, leave, taking thousands of jobs with them.
an unforeseen circumstance of driving ammonia production to countries outside the eu, such as china and india, which now account for 60% of production, has perversely led to a shortage of carbon dioxide in the eu, causing problems for bakeries, abattoirs, breweries, manufacturers of soft drinks and food packaging companies.
what about copyrights, patents and intellectual property, environmental costs, or the ethics, for example, if human tissue is printed?
their territory comprises some 27% of the world’s land surface but, strikingly, it holds 80% of the planet’s remaining biodiversity.
more than 200 environmental defenders were killed in 2016, many of them indigenous people.
i fully support the council’s call to rerun the recent elections that took place in such a grim political climate and in violation of the conditions for fair and free elections.
while i applaud the success of the response, i am also aware of concerns that kinshasa—imposed emergency measures implemented to contain the viral epidemic might be misused to further restrict the rights and freedoms of the congolese people, in what can already only be described as a generally very repressive political environment.
it is not for ngos to decide this [...] (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the compassionate response of ordinary people to the humanitarian crisis facing desperate migrants and refugees, who are crossing europe in search of safety and a sustainable life, is in stark contrast to the bureaucratic and political failure of the authorities.
the committee on budgets also recently had a hearing on the mainstreaming of climate spending, and the evidence from the court of auditors revealed that the union is far from achieving its 20% target on mainstreaming climate expenditure.
it’s clear, therefore, that we need to raise our game, and again the trilogue needs to address both the mainstreaming of climate change and support for the un’s sustainable development goals through the eu budget.
the important work reviewed in this report aims to maintain the climate in which peace can continue to evolve.
all over the globe we have witnessed the effects of climate change.
therefore, i call for urgent implementation of the eu-india clean energy and climate partnership.
but we need to do it carefully and not threaten the entire ecosystem of the internet.
on the anniversary of 9/11, other than one or two exceptions, this report has managed to find the right tone in balancing our mutual concerns, such as the us’ regrettable withdrawal from the jcpoa (joint comprehensive plan of action) and the paris climate change treaty and its attempts now to paralyse the wto with their underlining appreciation of our core shared interests in a multipolar world.
is it possible that they think there will be a friendlier and looser regulatory climate there than with this kind of restrictive nonsense on the continent?
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because we need a new settlement with the usa, not just because of trump’s politics and the way he is attacking the eu and our steel and aluminium industries but also because we don’t have the global rules and governance we need to tackle the challenges we all face, from sustainable development to security, without the usa at the table.
we need to negotiate with the usa: for the climate and to re-regulate globalisation, bringing the usa back into the multilateral game.
i think that it is a very opportune moment to be debating this today, at a time when citizens not only in my own constituency, but across europe and indeed the world are more conscious of the impact which plastic use is having on our environment.
currently less than 30% of all plastic waste is recycled.
indeed, plastic waste accounts for over 80% of marine litter, something which mr flack has referred to.
this has a devastating environmental impact, with up to 500 000 tonnes of plastic entering our seas and oceans each year.
in that way we can increase plastic recycling without increasing the risk of emitting hazardous substances into the environment.
mr president, with 10 tonnes of plastic produced every second worldwide and more than 9 billion tonnes accumulated since 1950, plastic has become the archetypal waste of the 21st century.
today, everyone is aware of this: we are dealing with an unprecedented environmental and health crisis, where the problems have been hidden under the carpet.
for example, only 9% of the plastics the world has produced have been recycled, and we are still unable to properly collect all the waste for storage and recycling.
that is why i tabled two amendments, which advocate a more coherent approach, with the aim of reducing plastic pollution.
indeed, against plastic pollution, a strategy is better than no strategy at all.
mr president, i support efforts to reduce the amount of plastic being used because, for the foreseeable future, a lot of it will end up in the open environment, including the oceans, from which it cannot realistically be collected for recycling or anything else.
new plastic goods therefore urgently need to be modified at manufacture so that if they do get into the open environment they will become biodegradable much more quickly than ordinary plastic.
the commission has at least gone through the motions of asking for a scientific study on this but, with the greatest respect to the rapporteur, mr demesmaeker, neither he nor his colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety are polymer scientists.
– the argument is that it we should allow it to be evaluated scientifically and it should not be completely disregarded by a committee that is called the ‘committee on the environment’ in the european parliament, the members of which are not scientists.
it has got nothing to do with animal feed: this is down to big corporations which are polluting the environment.
nothing is being done to look at bulk manufacturing environmental impact, so can i ask the rapporteur and also the commissioner to please look at that aspect and ensure that it is included in the report.
i want to start by stressing that we share common concerns and common goals: first of all, to protect citizens’ and animal health; second, to safeguard the environment; and third, to maintain food safety.
we share these with europeans, who are increasingly interested and engaged in how we produce food and want to ensure this is done in a sustainable way.
both the fitness check on the general food law and last year’s european citizens’ initiative on glyphosate called for greater transparency in eu risk assessment in the food chain and greater sustainability.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) committee has begun work on our proposal and the first draft report was published in july.
beyond this, we are investing via research in a more sustainable future.
there is also the sustainable use of pesticides directive, which seeks to reduce the risk of pesticides to health and the environment.
i look forward to continuing our joint work to improve transparency, trust and the overall sustainability of our food safety system.
the commission is handing out so—called ‘emergency waivers’ for farmers to use pesticides that we know are damaging to human health or the environment.
organic farmers everywhere are showing the way towards a truly sustainable farming system that provides a secure livelihood and a healthy future for all of us and for the ecosystem we depend on.
we have different conditions, we have climate changes coming along, so it is not national governments flouting the regulation; it is national governments responding to the specific needs of their farmers and their agriculture, and i support that.
although this development is positive, the situation in cambodia is still extremely serious, given the gross disregard of its international human rights obligations and the serious attacks on democracy, namely the complete silencing of political opposition along with the broader climate of shrinking space for civil society.
his case demonstrates how hostile the environment in chechnya has become for human rights defenders.
their role in crucial sectors, such as the fight against climate change, is extremely important.
it stood as a reminder of the horrifying risks that people are forced to undertake in order to seek safety and a sustainable life.
we want binding instruments at the global level, because we have seen what happens to guiding principles, we have seen what has happened to the environment in ecuador, we have seen what happens to workers in bangladesh, we have seen how global companies still operate on the basis of corruption in many parts of the world, and we are not prepared to tolerate it.
we want to ensure that we have a system in place at the global level where we can protect workers, the environment and consumers against the power of transnational corporations.
by putting sustainable development at the core of the eu’s trade strategy in 2015, the commission created high expectations, but what we’ve seen is the eu working actively for global rights for investors, but dragging its heels on binding human rights rules on multinationals.
however, i strongly oppose the content of ms dalli’s report as, in order to combat climate change, it imposes extreme reductions in emissions standards for new cars and new commercial vehicles in europe.
i would like to remind colleagues that eu measures to reduce co2 emissions, even if fully implemented, would have a trivial effect on the earth’s climate, and even if they are implemented, it is unlikely that other major emitters such as china and india will follow suit.
several global studies have shown that the costs of implementing policies to mitigate climate change significantly exceed any possible benefit.
for this, and several other scientific reasons, my colleagues and i refute anthropogenic climate change, and disagree with the current eu energy and climate policy.
in your vision of the future, do you see a situation where the countries outside of the eu that may not apply the same rigorous policies as yourself to the climate – are still using petrol and diesel and so on – will eu manufacturers have a loophole where they can manufacture to export to them or will your state control of this clamp down on those exports?
mr president, i would like to pay tribute to my good colleague, ms miriam dalli, for her excellent work on this because it is very, very important that parliament sends an extremely clear signal to the commission that we want the highest ambition when it comes to co2 emissions from cars.
it is inevitable that zero emissions transport will be the solution to the problems we face, not just on climate but also, of course, on air quality.
we have to go for the highest ambition because this is good not just for the environment but for consumers and our own industry and jobs.
but if you wish to get the best out of businesses, give them a competitive environment instead of harmonising across the eu with one rate of tax.
why not have localised tax, where different people have different sales taxes and people can compete to see which environment is best for business, which one entices people to set up companies, and what do the people in the area want: jobs or control and regulation?
it’s a big step forward in the ambition of the european union and everyone who has, as i have, dealt with transport policy and looked at emissions from transport, knows that without serious action on emissions from vehicles, you will not meet climate targets and you will not address key problems of air quality in urban areas.
madam president, with robotisation and digitisation, the labour market and work environment as we know it will change sooner than people realise, so we should explore the possibilities of a minimum european income as a matter of urgency.
in the negotiations for the next multiannual financial framework (mff), will we keep the long-term perspective of integration and the key issue of direct funding in mind and push for effective and sustainable solutions?
this highlights a worrying trend of a wider clampdown on civil society in an already oppressive environment.
madam president, i wish to insert the following after paragraph 3: ‘condemns the launch of iranian—built ballistic missiles by the houthis against targets in saudi arabia, including civilian areas, and their indiscriminate use of sea mines and internationally banned anti—personnel landmines.’
madam president, the eu has a responsibility to all living things to lead efforts towards ambitious action against climate change.
as climate sceptics, led by donald trump, imperil biodiversity it is crucial that we europeans lead the way.
women and young people must play a central part in our climate change strategy.
in fact, tackling climate change is an opportunity to foster positive change in broader areas of society.
our climate policies must also go hand in hand with our human rights policies, for example we must stand up for indigenous people against land grabs and deforestation, particularly in the amazon, which is the lungs of the world.
climate change challenges the ways our societies have developed with the growing phenomenon of climate refugees fleeing unsustainable lives and we must therefore radically reshape the way we are living now, for the sake of future generations.
our uk environment agency has published a life cycle assessment, which demonstrates that oxo-biodegradable plastic is superior to bio-plastic.
the italian process produces far more co2, indicating that more energy is required to manufacture it.
leaking water from our pipes, from our networks is not just bad for the environment, it isn’t just wasteful, it means water bills are higher for customers.
this is an absolute waste of taxpayers’ money, and the asylum office clearly has little internal control over its spending.
leaders also held a short debate on external relations, including on the fight against climate change ahead of cop24 in katowice.
this is why the commission last month proposed a new africa-europe alliance for sustainable investment and jobs, to strengthen the economic partnership with our african friends.
it is time to help protect sea lions, whales, penguins and their pals from the devastation of plastic pollution, to clean up our seas and save wildlife that’s hanging on by a whisker.
the scale of the problem is staggering, with eight million tons of plastic waste ending up in the oceans every year.
it’s an ecological catastrophe, but with firm action we can solve the problem.
a lot of the plastic that’s in our seas from food and drink packaging can be replaced with something more sustainable.
while preventative use of these products may be necessary under certain conditions, they should never be used as a substitute for proper feed, good hygiene practices in an appropriate environment and animal welfare standards.
the european union, of course, is undergoing, like the rest of the world, a transition towards sustainable zero carbon mobility – a transition that is, of course, inevitable if we are to be serious about tackling climate change.
it is crucial now that local authorities and governments put their money where their mouth is and ensure that local authorities are properly funded to remove the burden of compliance on local governments and make sure that air pollution targets can be met without penalising local authorities that are cash-strapped.
free trade agreements should be designed so they don’t undermine national and international laws and should include strong mechanisms, including the sustainable development chapters, to be respected by all parties.
our trade and sustainable development chapters need teeth as well as incentives for good behaviour.
the commission’s opposition to trade sanctions for labour and environmental roles means serial violators fear no economic cost of human rights abuses.
madam president, i am very proud to have been part of this clean energy package: incredibly important legislation that will affect all european citizens.
it commits the european union to renewable energy and energy efficiency targets in line with the paris agreement, of at least 32% and 32.5%.
our work means we’ll be able to integrate renewables further into our energy mix as well as phase out high-polluting biofuels and increase industry’s investment in innovative technologies while supporting self-generation among consumers and local renewable-energy communities.
energy efficiency is a fundamental part of the sustainable transition and is central to achieving our paris goals.
improved energy efficiency targets will secure a better quality of life for those in energy poverty.
for every 1% improvement in energy efficiency, three million homes can be properly renovated and seven million people lifted out of energy poverty.
the need for the uk to meet our climate change commitments cannot and must not be a victim of brexit.
the uk must commit to meeting these targets as part of the brexit negotiations and to staying an active member of the internal energy market, for the sake of our planet and our children’s future.
we can no longer delay action, and europe needs to be a real world leader in combating climate change.
in brexit, i urge the uk to take its climate change responsibilities seriously and to do the same.
madam president, we are all aware of the catastrophic consequences that pollution has for our health and the environment.
it’s been estimated that 43% of deaths globally are caused by environmental air pollution and, if this is true, it is costing billions of euros a year.
it should be our right as human beings to breathe fresh air and live in a clean environment.
member states should actively monitor the activities of big polluters in their countries and take ad hoc measures to reduce pollution levels.
however, regarding the eu’s clean energy package, i believe the commission should not interfere with member states’ plans to reduce pollution.
the eu should be more realistic and understand that the world’s climate debate is coming to an end.
the alarmist dialogue about man—made climate change should be replaced by a more realistic attempt at cooperation among national parliaments to reduce the levels of pollutants in europe.
member states should not be struggling to comply with unrealistic eu energy standards.
national parliaments should be free to exploit their energy resources, bearing in mind the fundamental need to protect their citizens’ health and the environment.
madam president, oxfam germany last week produced a report that claims that european union biofuels are causing widespread global deforestation, and ngo fern reported that people’s lives were being threatened by the european union’s set of clean energy policies.
the european union is, and always has been, a monstrous threat to the environment.
in short, the european union’s strive for clean energy, justified by its obsession with climate change targets, has been – and will continue to be – nothing short of an ecological disaster.
the government’s own studies show that fracking will increase air pollution.
i am proud that labour meps have consistently supported ambitious eu proposals that put the protection of our environment first.
you want to create an eu level common corporate tax base, an eu plastic tax and take revenues from the failed emissions trading scheme, amongst other sources.
my second point is about climate.
but, if we’re serious about meeting our paris targets, we have to make fine words a reality, and that means we’re going to need a clear roadmap to get to that 30% spending target on climate action well before 2027.
mr president, i’ve listened with real interest to this debate.
but, if nothing else changes, climate will continue to change and human beings will suffer the consequence.
climate leadership is not about playing to the fear of change.
improved energy efficiency can deliver real gains for those struggling with fuel poverty.
if energy demand and reduction is to go hand—in—hand with an end to fuel poverty, every member state will need a clear programme, ensuring that energy companies are better able to develop smart networks and incentivised to meet the social obligations of those suffering fuel poverty.
mr president, today we adopted concrete measures that will not only tackle climate change but also energy poverty that affects 50 million people in europe.
energy savings and efficiency deliver a triple win: lower emissions, more jobs and cheaper bills, and as with all negotiations, we didn’t get everything, but we did get real progress.
we will now have mandatory energy saving targets in place in all countries, and for the first time an obligation for member states to specifically help vulnerable consumers, creating more jobs, better housing and solidarity for those who struggle to pay their energy bills.
mr president, this clean energy package with its 33% renewables target by 2030 is too little, too late.
using food crops for fuel causes environmental damage and threatens food security, though agreement to end the scandal of wiping out rainforests to grow palm oil to put in our cars is at least a step in the right direction.
in the uk, brexit threatens even this unambitious progress, since it was driven by a coalition of elite interests including those who oppose action on climate change.
this is why extinction rebellion, a civic movement demanding urgent action on climate breakdown, is so vital, and we must ensure that the uk continues to match eu sustainable energy targets in the future uk trade deal.
only those who would deny the overwhelming evidence would doubt the urgency of the transition to renewable energy.
fracking has been talked of as a bridge to a low-carbon future, but the evidence suggests anything but that.
but, if we are to lead, we also need to recognise our responsibility to ensure that those who work in conventional energy should be part of the transition to renewables and not its casualties.
that is why we need to secure, as a start, the eur 4.8 billion just energy transition fund in tomorrow’s interim report on the seven—year budget framework.
don’t forget it is a vital partner for eu countries, our economies are interconnected, and for us it is a reliable source of energy.
however, far too often fair price can be difficult to ascertain – as demonstrated by some recent cases in energy, food and the pharmaceutical sector.
climate change fanatics come here and tell us that we’re going to have plagues and death and species dying out and the world’s going to end.
why not create an environment where companies and industries will make research look into this new greener technology that you want and actually make a profit doing it, rather than being forced into it from top down with the threat of all this alarmism and nonsense.
by cooperating with our european neighbours and partners on challenges of an ageing population in cambridgeshire, on women’s professional development in norfolk and on food waste in bedfordshire, these are just some of the 112 projects that european funding for cross-border projects interreg have supported.
i would like to thank the commission for leaving the door open to britain to continue to participate in interreg, and i call on the british government to help protect jobs, businesses and the environment in my region by negotiating our continued access to these important programmes.
mr president, climate change is the biggest threat that we all face, whether we live in a rich country or a poor country, and emissions from heavy goods vehicles are a major cause of co2 emissions.
heavy goods vehicles delivering heavy loads to construction sites with steel and concrete, brick and block are a major cause of emissions in our major cities around the world.
an 80% reduction in heavy goods vehicles delivering steel and concrete, brick and block to building sites around the world, replacing it with wood, would make a considerable contribution to tackling climate change.
if we are serious about tackling climate change, we need to build in wood.
last week shahmir sanni, the vote leave whistle—blower, won his unfair dismissal case that exposed the activities of nine lobby groups seeking to undermine action on climate change and help the tax avoiders, all working out of 55 tufton street in london.
madam president, developing europe’s rail network as a sustainable alternative to air travel over long distances is a perfectly sensible objective, but, if it is going to be successful then the service offered and available to people needs to be comparable.
without this amendment, the vast majority of plastics recyclers dealing with weee (waste electrical and electronic equipment) and end—of—life vehicles would have to dramatically reduce their activities or stop altogether.
we are talking about 900 000 tons of end—of—life vehicle plastic waste each year, which will probably end up being exported outside europe for recycling, where standards are far less rigorous and there is a real risk of it finding its way illegally into products such as toys, which are then imported into europe.
pretending that we’re not going to recycle at all when we have legislation like the elv (end-of-life vehicles) directive and the weee (waste electrical & electronic equipment) directive in place is frankly ostrich-like.
the accord is at a critical juncture, and commitments from the government of bangladesh towards the sustainability compact are highly insufficient, as demonstrated by the technical status report recently published.
madam president, agriculture will be expected to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions.
farmers can reduce co2 emissions by reducing tractor use.
farmers can reduce methane emissions by feeding their ruminants expensive cereals and soya instead of grazing grass.
farmers can reduce nitrous oxide emissions by growing fewer leguminous crops, but the green lobby want more protein crops grown in europe.
farmers can reduce water vapour emissions by maintaining large areas of bare soil, preventing transpiration.
perversely, but fortunately, the green lobby do like the greenhouse gas water vapour.
secondly, our key message is that the multilateral trade system must be fair to all countries including the least developed countries (ldcs) and be set in the context of the sustainable development goals (sdgs).
free trade alone will not be enough to lift all boats, and so we need trade agreements which are broadly based, cover human rights, social and environmental aspects, and not just tariffs and trade liberalisation issues.
we need to use this opportunity to trigger negotiations on social and environmental standards in order to make sure that trade delivers on sustainable development.
the general political climate has improved since then and the handling of this case has proved the robustness of montenegro, strengthening democracy and legal systems.
i should also say a few words on the elements related to the environment in this report, which has been given a much stronger focus than in previous years.
as a self-declared ecological state, it could be argued that montenegro deserves to be held to higher standards than others.
when research into global warming, pollution and air quality doesn’t happen, the whole of society and the environment suffers.
it’s high time we broadened its scope to make it a real instrument for development, workers and the environment.
those who advocate that position never seem to be able to answer the most obvious question: that if wto rules are so perfect, why do countries spend so much time and energy to secure ftas over and above wto arrangements?
what are the drivers of climate change?
what can the farmers do about the five different solar cycles whose cycle is well understood and that have caused the changes in our climate for over 2 000 years?
we haven’t even got on to greenhouse gases yet, which are pretty trivial – the most important one of those for climate change is water vapour, and yet you never hear about that, and a very good thing too, because that is our cloud cover.
co2 is a consequence of global warming, it isn’t a cause of it.
let’s shine a light on the dirty work of the agri-businesses that prop up an intensive and unsustainable food system, whilst at the same time finding alternative agro-ecological solutions to replace the dangerous chemicals that are so widespread in our farming system.
and now the eu’s poster boy, macron – supported, it would seem, by euro gendarmerie force armoured personnel carriers with eu flags emblazoned on them being deployed against french citizens, les gilets jaunes, rising up against your bonkers climate policy.
if we are looking to have the most effective ways of preserving the environment, they have to include the extension of property rights because – as aristotle used to say – that which nobody owns, nobody will care for.
we certainly need to tackle waste in the european union budget, and i am delighted that we will tackle the waste of young people unable to find work with an extra eur 116 million and also another eur 240 million to erasmus to help young people build a better future.
undoubtedly, the backstop is the least worst option for ireland, yet the british negotiation tactics have contaminated politics and practices, creating an insidious environment resulting in maladministration.
value—added benefits already realised in fishing policy, environmental programmes, precision farming, transport and traffic modelling are also contributors of added value.
when life is unsustainable because of war, famine, poverty, climate change and so on, people will move.
it is also a step towards a better and fairer eu trade policy that prioritises our regulatory standards on the environment and other key issues of importance to citizens.