mr president, today's societies face the great danger of global warming and all that such a change of scale can bring.
we need all countries to commit to actually reducing harmful emissions, but that is highly unlikely.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a principle which is also reflected in the treaty on european union.
it is not enough to impose strict environmental standards on european companies.
but if we take into account the pollution of the environment by countries like china and india, i can tell you that europe is much less polluting than all these countries.
the commissioner, mr cañete, has said that the renovation of buildings to increase energy efficiency is an important tool that we can use immediately and necessarily to tackle energy poverty and to create jobs.
we must start not only with public buildings but also with areas affected by energy poverty.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the energy efficiency of buildings, as well as the energy efficiency of buildings, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the energy efficiency of buildings.
at the same time, it is important to apply strong fiscal and development incentives to energy upgrading projects that will mobilise investment by making use of all available resources.
mr president, while we are here discussing the issues of clean energy, in greece citizens are protesting, holding rallies and striking against the new memorandum measures of the multi-member bill that reduces the benefits of three- and multi-children, restricts the right to strike, launches electronic auctions, increases indirect taxes and sells 34% of the shares of the public electricity company, pte, to the occupation fund controlled by the lenders.
in addition, 100,000 households are facing the specter of energy poverty, and 35,000 poor households have had their electricity cut off due to debt.
mr president, the clean energy policy, especially the use of renewable sources, is another proof of the multi-speed europe, as is the case with the economy and growth.
the union's binding target of a 35% share of energy from renewable sources, with parallel national participation, is not achievable horizontally for all member states.
the protection of ecosystems, biodiversity and the environment in general directly linked to energy production and exploitation has a cross-border dimension, given that environmental pollution knows no borders and that the effects of pollution are, over time, multiplying.
in the light of the above, i can say that, especially in the field of energy alone, europe can and must play a more active role, helping and even overlapping, where necessary, national strategies and actions.
mr president, the protection of marine ecosystems is essential to the establishment of sustainable fisheries.
tourism, transport, the environment, energy cooperation are areas in which we cooperate in the adriatic-ionian macro-region and the commission has honoured me by awarding me a pilot project to tackle energy poverty, for which i thank you very much.
it was deliberately created to save the euro and to allow the creditors to seize the rich energy reserves that exist underground and under the sea in our country.
the commission's excellent intentions will have very little impact on the competitiveness and sustainability of the greek economy without extending the repayment of the public debt, reducing tax evasion, radically reorganizing the public administration, stopping the plurality of laws that foster corruption, speeding up the administration of justice.
climate change and global warming are creating climate refugees.
for this reason, climate justice requires measures to achieve social, labour and pay equality between men and women.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in particular in the developing world, which is particularly affected by climate change, women, although overwhelmingly working in agriculture, are still a very small percentage of those who own farmland.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment, the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the same is true of greece, whose economy was destroyed when it was discovered and certified that it had abundant energy reserves.
but parliament must not in any way support those who deliberately use these principles to give the nuclear agreement with iran a boost, at a time when the international atomic energy agency has repeatedly certified compliance with all the commitments contained in it.
environmental agreements are also not being respected.
the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources could help to address the challenges of global warming.
at the same time, however, the installation of renewable energy plants, and in particular wind farms, must be environmentally friendly.
the construction of new roads to transport wind turbines to the peaks of the ochi will disturb the ecological balance.
we have denounced in our speeches and in our questions the violation of european union legislation to protect the health of citizens and the environment.
mr president, we are discussing energy efficiency at a time when the main problem throughout europe is energy poverty.
energy poverty affects millions of unemployed and poor people.
the situation in greece with energy poverty is now unacceptable.
this means that the competences of the member states must be respected and the governance process of the energy union must also respect the principle of conferral of powers, which means that the institutions of the european union have as many powers as the treaty confers on them.
mr timmermans and mrs katainen, the european plastics strategy is indeed an interesting initiative, combining environmental protection with recycling potential and, at the same time, integrating the plastics industry into the circular economy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
we criticize you because we need to move faster and more intensely from a dogmatic unilateralism to austerity to sustainable development policies; because accountability and its reinforcement must be ensured not only in words but also in deeds.
we saw it in the dieselgate case, and we see it in this case, because we have emissions tests on humans.
it is an unacceptable and immoral act which violates human rights and makes no sense, because we know very well what the levels of carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxides are which are harmful to human health.
mr president, the contribution of cars to total air pollution is 60% for carbon monoxide, 30% for nitrogen oxides, 50% for hydrocarbons and 3.5% for sulphur dioxide.
i am particularly pleased that, as rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy, i see that our priorities in the committee have been safeguarded and more.
madam president, the european union is trying to meet the paris commitments on environmental protection and has mainly entrusted this to a carbon trading system, the ets, which is essentially based on the market itself.
the fund could finance projects such as the interconnection of mainland greece with the aegean islands and crete, renewable energy sources and environmentally friendly technologies.
they are urged to join skopje, albania and serbia and to strengthen their influence against russia and china by controlling energy and transport routes and markets.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it also allows multinational energy companies to avoid paying taxes for five years.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
mr president, advanced countries are supporting sustainable development in developing countries, in addition to serving their strategic objectives, from curbing the causes of illegal migration to combating climate change.
this is the humanitarian situation on the ground and this is why the conference is an opportunity for us, as chair, to further work together towards the shared objective of supporting the syrians in need, their host countries and communities, and promoting a sustainable political solution.
we have been – and will be – at the forefront of the work to reach sustainable peace in syria, with you and all the eu institutions and member states together.
it is characteristic that no mention is made of the impact of the implementation of budgetary adjustment programmes on the fundamental rights of millions of union citizens, such as labour rights and health, nor of the consequences of environmental degradation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
in the cypriot eez it also causes energy control.
madam president, the various trade agreements of the european union lead to the opening up of markets and we have seen that in practice they are actually dismantling small and mediumsized enterprises in the european union, because the countries with which the european union has concluded agreements are countries which first of all do not comply with labour legislation, secondly, have starvation wages, do not comply with environmental standards and in practice lead to unfair competition and thus dismantle european economies.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
what measures will you take to oblige greece to implement this judgment of the court of justice of the european union c 590/2016, dated 8/2/2018;
madam president, i think the report on the european strategy for cooperative intelligent transport systems is particularly interesting, since it is now facing modern technological challenges, which, if exploited, could of course contribute to reducing traffic congestion, protecting the environment and avoiding massive pollution, particularly by lorries.
there you can see the effects of climate change, extreme weather events, storms, floods, droughts, soil erosion.
so it is essential to listen to local government, to encourage investment in cities, in energy efficiency, in clean energy innovation and renewable energy, and in infrastructure projects.
we must, now that resources are running out, try to make use of the additional financial instruments from the european fund for strategic investments, as well as from the connecting europe facility and horizon 2020.
madam president, the role of the regions and cities is particularly important in implementing the paris agreement, the cop 21 on climate change, and of course this concerns the whole of europe, it also concerns greece, where unfortunately there is no cooperation between central government and local government and the regions.
so i understand the political difficulties - they are long-standing - and this also highlights the right role played by mr barnier and his colleagues, namely that of negotiating properly, honestly, efficiently and honestly in a very difficult political environment, and i think that if we are to look for a european figure around whom we can unite, this is mr barnier, rather than looking for other examples which are less bright.
the union is maintaining the climate through official statements, is continuing the preaccession negotiations with these countries and is financing them, rather than isolating them and imposing sanctions.
it does not lead to sustainable growth, does not adequately address existing challenges or emerging threats and exacerbates economic disparities between stronger and weaker member states.
a massacre caused by the war declared by the united states, nato and the european union in competition with russia and iran for control of energy sources and passageways.
the agenda must of course also deal with political dialogue with respect for the sovereignty of these states and peaceful coexistence, the economy, with the aim of mutual benefit and fair trade, but at the same time measures must be taken to tackle crime and corruption, to impose conditions for the implementation of labour laws, to prohibit child labour, to have environmental protection and at the same time an integrated strategy to combat jihadism and islamic extremism.
migration and uprooting, a business-friendly environment - see abolition of the right to strike, where syriza is the leader in greece - abolition of collective agreements and linking wages to profits - that is, always a victim of profits - poor the unemployed, the partly employed, now poor and the fully employed with the minimum poverty income.
the unfinished agreements of capital, such as the transatlantic, the inter-pacific, the paris climate accords, show the competition of the united states, china, russia and the european union, with the special interests of germany and france.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the demands of the world market.
it is a given that there is now a total commitment of europe to fossil fuels and that means increased pollution.
mr president, the issue of global warming and, more generally, all the environmental challenges we face are extremely important problems.
our firm and uncompromising position is that we support any initiative, move or agreement aimed at protecting the environment.
for example, due to global warming and the ongoing desertification of large parts of north africa, there has been a sharp increase in recent years in the occurrence of dust clouds from the sahara in greece, which cause problems for the health of citizens, as concentrations of dangerous heavy metals such as lead, zinc and arsenic have been detected in them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disproportionately restricted to the farmers of europe, because the only thing we can do is to reduce european agricultural production while at the same time importing agricultural products at a lower price from countries with much lower environmental standards.
i believe that there should be serious restrictions on imports of agricultural products from countries outside the union, as only in this way will we be able to protect the environment by requiring these countries to adopt equally strict environmental standards.
mr president, the paris agreement on climate change is an important agreement because it protects the environment, and at a time when we are experiencing particularly adverse effects, not only in the world but also in greece, where we are now experiencing the dangerous dust cloud from the sahara which has caused many problems in my country.
mr president, strengthening the global response to the threat of climate change, in the context of sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty, requires, among other things, an increase in the capacity to adapt to the adverse effects of climate change.
to achieve negative emissions, accounting systems for land use, land use change and forestry must be sound.
as removals through this sector are reversible, it should be considered as a separate pillar in the framework of union and national climate policies.
the environment is the main area of political consensus and is directly linked to the sustainability of our planet and the continuity of the human species.
the circular economy is a way of reducing pressure on the planet's resources and raw materials, of reducing energy expenditure and ultimately of contributing to the fight against climate change.
however, the forecast that by 2030 all recyclable waste will no longer be landfilled and that there will be a single way of valuing sanitary landfills helps to adapt.
but we need to change the habits of citizens, we need to change the orientation of local government representatives, and here i will speak of a great example from vilnius, lithuania, where the creation of a biomass and municipal waste power plant was funded, together with the juncker plan, together with the cohesion fund, for more than 300 million euros in total.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very good one.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is recycled, that it is not generated, that food and marine waste are reduced.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is recycled and that the health of the population in general and of the people of attica in particular is protected from the carcinogenic landfill of fyla.
madam president, because of global warming many raw materials, many natural resources on which we depend, are gradually beginning to be depleted and if this problem is not identified quickly, then there will be a shortage in a few years.
the circular economy is therefore very important because it also helps to protect the environment and therefore the survival of the planet.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that is contrary to the interests of the community.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the disposal of waste by incineration is a very good one.
there are countries like greece that send 75% of their waste to landfills, as they say, polluting the environment, the sea, the water, the food chain.
in my country, the central governments, past and present, and the regional authorities insist on creating landfills and even mixed waste, destroying the environment and polluting the watershed.
there is toxic marine pollution on kateryna; in shamoth he was cast into the sea; in lechim he was built upon a water-bearing horizon.
as we speak, residents in aegalya have blocked the area's landfill, which has been operating without a permit since 2015. it is clear that a country like greece, which recycles 17% of its waste, cannot meet the intermediate target, so it is urgently necessary to adopt the landfill zero act and also needs increased assistance from the european union, as do countries that are generally lagging behind in waste management.
madam president, the seventh environmental action programme is very important and of course we must focus on protecting public health and food safety.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
at the same time, however, greece, which has been dissolved by the memoranda, should be able to obtain a special status within the european union, a special relationship, with regulations and exceptions for a certain period of time, in certain sectors such as energy, shipbuilding, tourism, the primary sector, transport, in order to recover the greek economy under this special regime.
the reason for this is that the competition for the control of energy and markets by the monopolies is intensifying despite your diplomacy and your time-consuming operations against the people.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
similarly, external action cannot support countries where labour rights are not respected, countries where child labour exists, countries where the right to health and safety is violated and, moreover, obviously, these mechanisms cannot finance actions in countries which do not respect environmental protection.
mr president, the european council has confirmed that the union's response to the intensification of imperialist rivalries, with trade wars with america, russia and china, culminating in military interventions, such as in syria, for control of energy and markets, with the immediate risk of generalisation, is the deepening of european integration with an intensity of exploitation, the militarization of the union in alliance with its competitors, america and nato, to encircle russia.
it is neither fair nor sustainable to burden small and mediumsized enterprises and workers with ever more onerous taxes while large multinationals are essentially exempt.
madam president, commissioner, today more than ever it is timely to talk about sustainable transport, as it seems that the cohesion fund money is decreasing but at the same time the challenges for both sustainable transport and tackling climate change are increasing.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy mix of transport is not affected by the changes in the energy mix.
madam president, sustainable transport is particularly important for islands, especially for islands in greece, which, because of their distance from the mainland, are at a competitive disadvantage.
the only way to make greek public debt sustainable is to have strong growth in greece.
madam president, as i said in my speech yesterday, although turkey continues its aggressive policy towards greece, although turkey is violating the territorial waters of my country, although turkey maintains the casus belli against greece, the european investment bank continues to grant low-interest loans to turkey and thus finances small and mediumsized enterprises, transport, the agricultural sector and environmental projects.
there are provisions for the protection of the environment, although not to the extent that we would like.
in addition, even greater efforts are needed to protect the environment.
mr president, sustainable finance is of course crucial to environmental protection.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the environment.
i welcome the support that the report gives to the work on sustainable finance.
this is encouraging in view of our future work and discussions on the legislative proposals on sustainable finance that the commission presented last week.
first, we will start the process of designing an eu classification system for sustainable economic activities which can inform future eu standards and labels for green financial products such as green bonds or investment funds.
second, for those who manage investments on behalf of others, we propose to clarify that their duty towards their clients includes the systemic incorporation of sustainability risks into their investment processes.
in addition, for investment products that actively pursue sustainable objectives, the way these objectives are incorporated into investment decisions would also need to be disclosed.
third, we propose to create a new category of benchmarks consisting of two specific types of benchmarks: low carbon benchmarks and positive carbon impact benchmarks.
this will increase transparency towards investors on how these benchmarks select and weigh their underlying assets and measure their carbon footprint.
in addition, providers of low carbon benchmarks will have to disclose how their methodology takes into account the esg factors.
finally, we propose that investment firms and insurance distributors consider the sustainability preferences of retail investors when giving investment advice.
in the coming weeks we will establish a technical expert group (we’re going to call it teg) that will further work on developing an eu classification for sustainable activities or taxonomy standards for green bonds and sustainable matrix.
these are the first steps towards a more sustainable financial system.
for instance, the commission is evaluating the mandatory reporting requirements to make sure they provided the right information to market participants, enabling them to assess companies’ long-term value creation and their sustainability-risk management.
now we count on you to move as fast as possible in the coming months to adopt these measures that will encourage sustainable and green investments in europe.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
of course, there are also many countries which do not meet the specific criteria relating to environmental protection, the application of labour legislation, the application of the protection of health and safety of workers.
in addition, we have seen various countries seeking to shape trade policy without respecting environmental standards, and at the same time, their obligations under legislation to protect the workers themselves.
moreover, he comes to accuse the country that it should cede the right to control corruption and control it .... )
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
unfortunately, however, in its present form it cannot meet the challenge of the ever-increasing natural disasters caused by climate change.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of natural disasters is based on the principle of the protection of the environment against natural disasters.
mr president, the debate on the european civil protection mechanism is particularly timely, especially at a time when climate change is leading to disasters, floods and fires.
it is very dangerous because it is linked to road safety and creates problems for the protection of the environment.
in practice, relocations are caused by social dumping, tax dumping and environmental dumping.
first of all, increased environmental protection.
the main reason for a specific assessment of ict products is that it has proven very difficult to make a reliable estimate of their energy savings potential, given the uncertainty about future market developments.
moreover, for fast-moving product sectors such as mobile phones, questions have arisen as to the suitability of the ecodesign process for establishing minimum energy and resource efficiency criteria, because, as this process takes on average around four years, the risk is that requirements would be updated by the time they enter into force.
based on the outcomes of this assessment, the commission will determine the best policy approach for improving the energy efficiency and wider circular economy aspects of mobile phones and other ict products.
the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 12 june 2018.
the next item is the report by mr damiano zoffoli, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on co2 emissions and fuel consumption from new heavy-duty vehicles (com (2017) 0279 - c8-0168/2017 - 2017/0111 (cod)) (a8-0010/2018)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, today in the field of education, as a result of the anti-people and anti-social policies that have been and are being implemented in the european union and in the member states, we are witnessing the following: a general deterioration of education policies and underfunding of public education, a reduction in the employment rights of teachers and professors, an increase in the proportion of socially excluded citizens and an increase in the phenomenon of brain drain from greece and the other countries of the south, the promotion of individualism at the expense of collective consciousness, education systems with the primary purpose of serving the needs of the labour market, students full of anxiety and anxiety because of the very difficult situation they will face afterwards.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, when we talk about the circular economy, we mean finding ways, using modern technology, innovation, not only to protect the environment but also to create new businesses and jobs.
we have to change the way we deal with waste.
instead of burying 60% of the waste in the european union, we should use it to save resources, to make money and to create millions of jobs.
a week ago we celebrated world environment day.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
it is therefore a functional model that can create green jobs, particularly in the recycling and reuse of materials, and even more so in the waste management sector, where local government at all levels, both municipal and regional, can play an important role.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
while it is careful to threaten and even impose fines on member states when they violate community law, as is the case in budgetary, trade and environmental matters, it does not do the same when it comes to human rights, which are the basis and the core of society.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
this massive poaching has significant consequences for the ecosystem, for development, while also leading to corruption and supporting organised crime.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
but, commissioner, we must look at our own house, we must look at how we ourselves protect the environment and we must enforce environmental legislation.
madam president, commissioner cañete, the european union is the most important international player in the fight against climate change and, for this reason, climate diplomacy is the tool that must be dynamic and at the same time horizontal in all our political actions.
the union's climate diplomacy needs to be professionalised, financially strengthened, developed more coherently and coordinated so that the climate change dimension is everywhere: in security, in migration, in trade agreements, in foreign investment, everywhere.
one area where climate change will be tested is in the field of migration and that is where the union's climate diplomacy needs to be present, not only to secure the citizens of the union but also to secure the citizens who will be ready to migrate because of the problems they will face from climate change.
climate diplomacy is essential to reward and even flag up negligence within the union, and it has to start with us.
we have heard from all sides that we must deal with the issues of terrorism, environmental protection, immigration, security, but i see that we are forgetting here in the european union that there is a country, cyprus, which turkey has invaded since 1974 and illegally occupies 37% of the territory of the republic of cyprus and has troops there.
this means that a multi-level governance system is being established in the european union, so that cities can and must now play a serious role in environmental protection, social policy, the fight against poverty and the implementation of programmes.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
i read the word "security" countless times, i read the word "unemployment" few times, the word "democracy" few times, the words "human rights" few times, the words "sustainable development" few times, the word "racism" few times.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment, the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
mr president, renewable energy sources, and wind energy in particular, could really contribute to climate change, but that means complying with the requirements for the licensing and construction of wind farms.
i have repeatedly referred to the environmental crime committed in south carinthia, at mount ocha, where 42 wind farms, with a capacity of 700 megawatts, are being planned and put into operation.
the protection of the environment in a natura site has been seriously undermined.
we are taking the country out of the memoranda, but we must also take it out of the crisis once and for all and put it safely in the coming years and decades on a highway of equitable and sustainable development.
the truth is that the political forces responsible for the default and the memoranda in greece feel sadness and anger and they are fighting with centeno and moscovici because it is this government, the tsipras government, that is taking greece out of the memoranda and the default and putting it on a path of stable and sustainable development.
greece needs the support of the eu and its partners, but also a government that believes in reforms and, above all, in an attractive tax environment for investment.
so i think that the processes to support sustainable development require much more funding and, in practice, what we see is that payment appropriations were 0.92% in 2018, now they are 0.9%.
it would be much more beneficial for the greeks if money were given that would end up in the real economy and help to create an economic environment that would be conducive to growth.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
we must strengthen political protection, both at national level - and much must change in greece - and at european level, creating a strong umbrella of european protection policy, because climate change is threatening even sweden, because last year we also had many deaths in portugal.
cuts in civil protection personnel and infrastructure to save greece and debt sustainability.
mr president, i think that there are phenomena, such as the greenhouse effect, which are making the situation worse for everyone and, especially in greece, we have the arbitrary construction.
the tragic account of the deadly fire in mati this summer in greece is not explained solely by climate change and the special weather conditions at that time in that area.
we are in favour of a functioning europe, of the enhanced cooperation provided for in the existing european treaties, especially if it is through this that our objective of a democratic, social and ecological europe can be achieved.
ladies and gentlemen, my country is facing many challenges at the moment, including a difficult economic environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
i believe that there should be a special relationship for greece, special arrangements, permanent and transitional, so that greece can breathe, special arrangements in the fields of energy, state aid, shipbuilding, tourism, transport, agriculture and livestock.
finally, we need to make use of the european union's flagship policies, such as defence and tackling climate change.
madam president, mr juncker's speech and slogan 'the european union, a world leader' is intended to shield the interests of european monopolies against the other powerful capitalist centres, such as the united states, china and russia, in the context of competition for control of markets and energy resources, with a special emphasis on africa.
the principles of a legal and sustainable system are simple but basic: compulsory insurance, a guaranteed minimum pension of a decent standard, proportionality and stability of contributions, return on benefits, support for the continuity of contributions with redistributive conditions, long-term structured saving and the creation of reserves.
the vote will be held on thursday 13 september 2018. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on:- the report of mr mark demesmaeker, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the european strategy on plastics in a circular economy (2018/2035 (ini)) (a8-0262/2018), - the question with request for an oral answer to the council on the options on the interface between chemicals, products and waste legislation tabled by mr lukas mandl, mr christel schemaldemose, mr mark demesmaeker, ms anne dahi jäätteenmäki, mr lynn boylan, mr pier škrni pedic, ms joëlle määttini, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the european strategy on plastics in a circular economy (2018/2035 (ini)) (a8-0262/2018), - the oral question to the council on the options on the interface between chemicals, products and waste legislation tabled by mr lukas mandl, mr christel schemaldemose, mr mark demesmaeker, ms anne dahi dahi jäätteenmäki, mr lynn, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the interface between chemicals, products and food safety (2018/20360000-008-0083/2018) (b7-oj.
i think it's covered all the major issues because actually plastics are very dangerous to the environment.
the examples of environmental destruction, particularly that the oceans have been filled with plastic, are well known.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
however, due to their low level of collection and recycling, they pollute the environment and cause health problems, especially when they enter the food chain; they also destroy marine ecosystems when they end up in seas and oceans.
to tackle this problem, both the states and the european union should adopt effective laws to control the movement of single-use plastics and other plastic waste from ending up in the seas.
they should also be raised to a higher level of collection and recycling so that they can be transformed from waste into important factors in the development of a country's economy.
mr president, it is indeed a very interesting debate on how we can have sustainable transport, how we can avoid pollution of the environment, how we can have automated mobility systems.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
blockchain is a groundbreaking technology that promises to improve efficiency, reduce costs and friction, and increase transparency and trust in a wide range of sectors, such as supply chains, financial services, energy, transportation, health care, education, and even copyright and the creative industries, by giving citizens back control of their data.
i am pleased, too, to announce that blockchain has united this house, as all the parties in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) voted in favour of the resolution under the principle of being technology neutral and innovation friendly in europe.
energy grids, health care, the financial sector, supply chains, transport, education, the creative industries and the public sector are just some of the possible fields.
cybersecurity, interoperability, new sources of fraud and environmental issues are among these concerns.
how is the commission planning to provide the environment of legal certainty that is needed to boost dlts and blockchains in europe; and what initiatives would the commissioner undertake to create a competitive blockchain ecosystem in the eu?
it is certain that the applications of blockchain cover, as mentioned, a great many sectors: energy networks, health care, the financial sector, supply chains, transport, education.
the classic example is the syriza-anel government, which is forging economic and military relations with israel, with joint energy and military plans against the peoples of the region, with military bases granted to the nato murderers.
mr president, i think we all agree that we need to reduce emissions as quickly as possible.
many countries today are facing energy shortages.
will the emissions from cars eventually be replaced by the emissions from the factories that produce electricity?
in conclusion, we clearly need to work even more towards reducing emissions.
there are the ambitious targets, the 2030 climate targets, with commitments in action, with efforts to reduce emissions.
there is of course an opportunity to promote the green economy, to have environmental protection and investment at the same time.
the transport sector, as has been said, is responsible for at least 20% of carbon dioxide emissions.
mr president, the construction of new passenger and light commercial vehicles with high-spec engines, in order to limit carbon dioxide emissions and protect the environment, is achievable.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not affected by the consequences of the crisis.
in an environment of insecurity and uncertainty, extreme anti-europeans have succeeded in instilling a new kind of cynicism in politics, a veneer of xenophobia, intolerance and nationalism, by resorting to the toolbox of fascism, which has remained sealed for 70 years.
the climate of hostility and the 'legitimisation' of violence followed as a consequence, leading to the rise of neo-fascist and racist violence even in countries that had not been particularly affected by the economic or refugee crisis.
if he really cares about these people, he should pressure turkey to stop pushing them into greece; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
roads, airports, ports, shipping, transportation, mineral wealth, energy, telecommunications, water, mountains, beaches, military production infrastructure, hydrocarbons, recycling, health, education - everything has been given up.
these contracts play an important role in the development of the state's economy, as they are usually awarded in sectors of great strategic importance such as heavy industry, public works, construction, energy, telecommunications and others.
at the same time, public procurement could support growth, create jobs, help to strengthen the strategy of the state itself, taking into account social and environmental criteria.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one.
madam president, the european union is trying to meet the paris commitments, but it has entrusted this process to the carbon trading system, the ets, which is based on market forces and is therefore ineffective.
the greek ppp is obliged to pay 400 million euros for the ets every year and now this burden will reach 600 million euros, at a time when there is precision in the current, there is energy poverty and, at the same time, very expensive heating oil.
recently we had procedures of intimidation, threats and bribes in order to get mr zaev 80 mps to pass ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
with the pollution of the environment by industry and the uncontrolled use of pesticides, it is a fact that the aquifers in many countries of the union are laden with substances that make water dangerous.
in the present era, meeting this need is particularly important because we have to deal with the consequences of climate change, but also with the pollution of the water table and water sources by industrial waste.
mr president, i think that the debate has shown that plastic waste is indeed a huge danger to the environment.
there are currently 6 billion tonnes of plastic waste, polluting the seas and the water table.
if this ocean pollution continues, by 2050 there will be more plastic in the seas than fish and mammals.
the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
the question is what are you doing not in words, but in action to address the critical changes that citizens demand: a real social pillar and not just a label in words, a multiannual budgetary framework to be adopted before the european elections and supporting growth and cohesion policies that reduce inequalities, reforming asylum policy so that greece and italy do not bear all the burden of refugees, strengthening transparency and democratic accountability, more ambitious targets to tackle climate change.
it is a region with energy sources and pipelines, but also a key player in the military encirclement of russia by the european union and the united states, and with a nato base in the context of their rivalries that are escalating with the withdrawal of the united states from the nuclear weapons agreement.
this tension is also fatal for the united states, which, seeking to serve its strategic interests, is trying to restrict russia and prevent it from supplying energy to the countries of the middle east and some countries of the european union.
we need to encourage innovative investments, such as the one in lithuania, to produce energy from biomass and solid waste at the same time.
we need to respond to the new era by creating sustainable jobs.
mr president, in europe we may not be the world champions in plastic pollution, but we produce one hundred and fifty thousand tonnes every year and throw them into the sea, and if we do not take significant initiatives both at european and international level, by 2050 we will have more plastic than fish in our seas.
but above all, governments need to adopt and implement waste management plans immediately with a view to a circular economy and, ultimately, the replacement of plastics with either recyclable or biodegradable plastics.
mr president, in the context of protecting the environment in the face of climate change, the european union has committed itself to reducing, or even eliminating, carbon dioxide emissions from transport.
to achieve this commitment, clean and energy-efficient vehicles should be produced and used.
but what is now being reported is that there are 600 chemicals circulating in the european union without authorization, that one third of the companies do not comply with the requirements of the directive, and therefore it is a given that there is a huge risk to health and the environment.
– madam president, firstly, i want to thank you for this report as it is really important in our efforts to establish in europe low carbon emissions and an energy-efficient green economy and the commission fully agrees with both the rapporteur and also the committee on transport that decisive and swift action is needed on the deployment of the infrastructure for alternative fuels.
at the same time, there was a climate of terror during the funeral of qatsifa.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
but i do not think that the union's proposals so far answer the perhaps most important question: where will all the energy we need come from if we abandon both fossil fuels and nuclear energy?
renewable energy sources - despite their positive contribution - are by no means sufficient, at least with current technologies.
the second point concerns energy poverty.
however, in greece, for example, these provisions are limited to households with a total family income of less than eur 11 000-12 000. in practice, it is impossible for a family with an income of eur 15 000 per year to implement the measures provided for in the reports and to renovate their home to achieve energy savings.
we must join this exception to have cheap energy and to increase production.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the opportunity to present a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a catastrophic accident at sea.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
unfortunately the effects of climate change are getting harsher, and we will certainly continue to pay the price of decades of unsustainable land and country planning.
it starts now by giving our union the capacity to pave the way for a sustainable future.
digitalisation is a key factor for achieving the sustainable development goals, and of course it provides cost-effective solutions to development needs by creating high—quality jobs and sustainable growth.
it is now reflected in the european consensus on development and in the communication on a new africa—europe alliance for sustainable investment in jobs.
besides, over eur 200 million are being invested to support a new initiative in key thematic areas: energy, governance, education, health and agriculture.
thanks to its financial arm – the european fund for sustainable development – it helps secure private investment.
we also wish to strengthen our political dialogue with partner countries and regional organisations – in particular the african union – to promote good governance and an investment-friendly climate.
mr president, at the paris climate conference, the european union was the force that led the world community to a necessary agreement.
i think we need to devote at least 30% of the next budget to climate action to give the necessary impetus to the shift towards a sustainable economy.
we also need to create a genuine revenue system for the union, based on the 'polluter pays' principle, not only for those who pollute the environment and burden the climate but also for those who do not contribute their fair share.
mr president, in prioritising the new 2020-2027 budget, i would like to put tackling climate change as our first priority, because it is about protecting people.
i call on commissioner oettinger and all my colleagues here in the european parliament today to support together the proposal to set up the just energy transition fund with a budget of eur 4.8 billion.
mr president, the energy union of the european union should first of all create a situation which does not exacerbate social and economic inequalities within the union itself.
but all this must be done in accordance with the responsibilities of the member states, because, as we see, through the governance of the energy union the commission and brussels are in fact seeking to take over responsibilities which belong to the member states.
the powers of the member states in the field of energy must therefore be maintained.
mr president, today more than ever we need a directive to promote the use of renewable energy sources.
the use of renewable energy sources will contribute to the development of the energy independence of the european union and our countries.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
in greece we need a wide liberalisation of the energy market, a regulatory framework to link renewable energy to existing water infrastructure so that it can be used as storage, and we also need synergies with local communities so that renewable energy can eventually become the main source of energy, especially on the islands.
the european union needs an integrated approach from national, regional and local authorities to boost the clean energy and jobs that are so necessary in all member states.
mr president, renewable energy sources can indeed contribute to environmental protection.
i have repeatedly denounced the environmental crime being committed in south carinthia, on mount ocha, where 42 wind farms with a total capacity of 700 mw will be installed.
you realize this is a huge environmental intervention.
but this environmental disaster cannot continue.
we are waiting to see when, finally, the commission will refer greece to the european court of justice, because the commission itself has stated, since november 2017, that it will refer greece for breach of environmental conditions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
it is therefore obvious that measures must be taken to limit emissions of polluting gases.
mr president, i take it for granted that in the effort, both by the member states and by the european institutions, to reduce emissions of polluting gases in the union, passenger and freight transport by rail plays a very important role.
mr president, the seizure of the rich energy reserves, which lie underground and under the sea in greece, has always been the aim of the institutions of international capital and the european union.
it is clear that the european union - and france in particular - has made substantial investments in iran, in the automobile industry and in energy issues with total.
my decision on the catch-the-eye is final and please let's not waste any more time on this subject.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one.
but, mr. vella, i want to ask you a serious question: i have repeatedly complained that in the south karelia area, at mount ocha, which is a nature reserve, environmental legislation is being violated and violated.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new substances, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new substances.
but these are half-meters; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in conformity with the treaty.
to survive in this environment of automation, digitisation and rapid technological development, every person must be educated so that he or she acquires the knowledge and skills that will enable him or her to survive in this environment.
member states are also working to embed digital technologies in the school environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
mr president, the life programme is important for biodiversity.
i have mentioned several times the case of south carinthia, the case of mount ocha, which has been designated as a nature reserve, and yet a large number of wind farms are being installed there in violation of environmental legislation.
when will environmental legislation finally be implemented in greece?
we are waiting to see when the implementation of environmental legislation in greece will take place.
in addition, a very large number of workers are exposed to diesel emissions.
the euro-atlantic staff and the energy monopolies are comfortable with a dichotomous solution, with nato and eu troops on the island, which is a source of new dangers rather than security and stability.
although some people think that this is a debased committee, they are wrong, because through the committee on petitions the rights are heard, the citizens' demands are heard, and we have dealt with very important issues such as the rights of people with disabilities, we have dealt with the issue of child abduction, we have dealt with the famous jugendamt, we have dealt with social rights, access to documents, the role of the commission in the known pilot cases, that is to say those which raise issues of violation of european law, environmental protection, also for the protection of citizens from pesticides.