mr president, in achieving the european union's energy and climate objectives, a stronger use of renewable energy sources can be an effective mechanism to reduce dependence on energy imports and to create new jobs.
the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of member states in the union's energy market.
not only because we now have 100,000 jobs in the biofuel sector, but because by producing highly sustainable biofuels, we also produce high-protein animal feed, which helps reduce the import of gmo food.
so i urge you to support the amendments that give all renewable energy sectors the opportunity to realize their full potential.
after many years of misguided approaches, the new common fisheries policy and the alignment of legislation with its objectives have created an opportunity for sustainable fishing that respects regional specificities.
it is also very important that in this better coordination, better use of the budget, we pay particular attention to sustainable development, to include the united nations sustainable development goals and also to include important european policies such as the circular economy, clean energy in this cohesion policy, or macro-regional strategies for development after 2020.
madam president, the macro-region project is highly complementary to the fundamental values of the european union, it represents a framework for the countries of a region to cooperate in order to solve problems that they cannot solve satisfactorily on their own.
the oceans are actually our biggest allies in the fight against climate change.
the seas are a source of food, energy, mobility, medicine and rest, they regulate our climate, they give us half our oxygen and they take up a significant proportion of the carbon dioxide we emit.
in addition to the many problems caused by global warming, one of the fastest growing threats to the health of the world's oceans is the accumulation and spread of marine debris.
the staggering 150 million tons of plastic that have accumulated in the world's oceans are causing serious environmental and economic damage, including to coastal communities, tourism, shipping and fisheries.
oceans transcend borders, and therefore strong regional and international cooperation between governments in all marine regions and a wide range of interdisciplinary expertise are needed to ensure the sustainability of shared resources and sound ocean governance measures.
madam president, women and girls are vulnerable to climate change and the effects of climate change are exacerbating existing inequalities in society, and women in rural areas are particularly vulnerable, as they are dependent on natural resources because they are engaged in agricultural work and perform a large number of unpaid domestic work, so i am advocating that this is exactly what needs to change and that their work is recognised and paid for.
women are still under-represented in climate change decision-making bodies, so i support stronger involvement of women in the implementation and enforcement of environmental policies at national and local level.
i also join the calls on the commission to include climate change in development programmes and to find solutions to these problems and to finance them.
i support the initiative to focus women on clean energy entrepreneurship and help them to become self-employed.
at a time when some of the world's most powerful leaders are irresponsibly questioning the devastating effects of climate change, it is important that we once again collectively reaffirm our commitment to the paris agreement.
the arguments of fishermen and scientists were taken into account, allowing fishing to continue while protecting the ecosystem.
while this may sound like a small change, we must not forget that even a small change in an ecosystem can have a significant effect on the living organisms within it.
the european union will continue its fight against climate change, not just climate change, but also the behaviour of people today who are seriously endangering the oceans with their bad habits.
we hope to use innovative projects, blue technologies, the use of clean energy sources to promote environmentally sustainable infrastructure and protect the biodiversity of the oceans.
mr. president, the fact is that climate change is affecting the most vulnerable groups in society, those who rely on natural resources for their livelihoods, but also those with less financial resources, namely women.
they are disproportionately affected by climate change, because they are overrepresented in the poorest populations of the world, and they are especially vulnerable in developing countries because they don't have the same access to resources, education, employment opportunities, land as men, and they are still responsible for most of the care and household chores, and the production of food for the family.
the concept of climate justice addressed in this report aims not only to draw attention to these differences but also to raise awareness of how climate change is not just a technical or economic problem, but also affects people's lives.
taking into account that according to the united nations international organisation for migration, 200 million people could be displaced by 2050 due to climate change and the fact that women and girls are among the most strongly affected groups, i support this report in the hope that it will help to find new and more effective solutions to this problem.
in addition to the measures set out in the report, i believe it is crucial to continuously emphasise the importance of strengthening entrepreneurial skills for young people, which cannot be developed without a positive business climate, which leads us once again to conclude that structural reforms are the fastest way to quality employment for young people.
a high youth employment rate will create the conditions for a sustainable and cohesive recovery of the euro area economy.
i therefore take this opportunity to appeal to the commission and to all of us to be strict when it comes to the chapters on environmental protection.
europe produces 25 million tonnes of plastic waste every year, of which less than 30% is recycled.
also, as much as 85 percent of the waste on beaches is plastic, if we're talking about the world's level.
for this reason, i welcome any future efforts by the european union to eliminate toxic substances from plastic products, reduce their use and increase the level of reuse and recycling of the corresponding waste.
the other day we had a report from mr. matoa which had a number of environmental issues from the protection of immature fish.
the imf country report states that the process of implementing structural reforms in croatia has slowed down since accession to the union and that the investment climate is poor compared to comparable economies.
dear andrej, thank you for your excellent and comprehensive speech on the future of the european union and congratulations on the economic results and good indicators in the republic of croatia, on the acceleration in the use of european funds and especially on the adopted strategy for entering the eurozone in which the apostro-phyric importance of the convergence of the republic of croatia, therefore growth and development, is that the eurozone becomes our natural environment to which we belong.
what we are facing is not just habit or stereotype or tradition: it is the problem of taboo, and taboo is something which is deeply rooted in society and is sustainable over centuries.
living in the modern world, such practices and situations are sometimes completely unconscious, and they are happening in our immediate environment.
civil society organizations, as well as individual activists working on social, environmental and other important issues, face a multitude of obstacles - from legal and administrative obstacles to intimidation, detention and arrest.
anyway, it's about saving energy, it's about health.
for more than half a million union citizens, beekeeping is a main source of income, while food production and the preservation of biodiversity depend on pollination by bees.
i therefore call on the european commission to increase funding for beekeeping in a way that adequately supports the important ecological service of bees as pollinators and to include a new system of direct support for beekeepers by community.
croatia, along with bulgaria, romania, portugal, spain, france and hungary, is one of the eu countries which, due to its biodiversity and beekeeping tradition, can offer the highest quality honey and for this reason we must all work together at eu level to successfully oppose the import of adulterated honey from china, in order to protect consumers and our beekeepers and the health of people in general.
so for the overall energy strategy of the european union, it is not crucial whether the lng terminal in croatia is on land or floating?
we also have to take into account the climate change we are witnessing, which is affecting the rural areas and the women who live there the most.
on the other hand, investment in education, lifelong learning and vocational training for women and girls, especially in rural areas, especially in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (stem) and entrepreneurship and innovation, is needed, as these areas are important tools for achieving the sustainable development goals, and to promote equality in the agricultural and food sectors, tourism and other industries in rural areas.
gender as a legal concept does not exist and is an unscientific concept, and it is therefore wrong and unjustified to make the introduction of such a concept conditional on the member states, since it brings nothing but a climate of legal uncertainty.
and they see us as an indispensable partner for sustainable development and for modernisation.
european companies are keen to invest in the region, to the benefit of both the european union and central asia, and improving the business environment is an interest we share.
they hope that these big infrastructure projects will bring sustainable development to their countries and support trade within the region, not only through the region.
mr president, madam high representative, the characteristics of central asia's position today are the negative legacy of the soviet era, undeveloped democratic institutions, non-competitive economy, environmental problems, the collision between two great powers, china and russia, whose geostrategic interests do not have to be compatible with the progress and prosperity of central asia, economic and energy dependence on russia and exposure to instability and terrorism from the south.
i support the commission's statements and the council's conclusions on central asia, in particular those concerning the promotion of the use of renewable sources, the increase of energy efficiency, the strengthening of the fight against terrorism, effective border protection, the full use of the education initiative, and i think that particular emphasis should be placed on the necessary assistance from the european union in the peaceful settlement of the outstanding issues and disputes that exist between the five central asian countries.
the 2018 annual growth survey, together with the integrated european pillar of social rights, is an important part of the overall policies for quality jobs, sustainable growth and investment, aiming at increasing productivity and wages, job creation, reducing inequality and poverty and improving social protection and access to and quality of public services.
what i consider our great success, especially my law club, is that we've managed to incorporate preventive measures into this package, namely the removal of hazardous substances and the decontamination of waste in recycling.
this is what actually makes the core of the future circular economy when we look at the use of resources themselves, especially in open waste collection.
the laws include amendments to the waste framework directive, the waste vehicles directive, the waste batteries and accumulators and waste electrical and electronic equipment directive and the waste landfill directive.
the package provides guidance to member states on achieving the right balance of waste-to-energy capacity and highlights the role of the waste hierarchy, where waste management options are ranked according to sustainability, with waste prevention and recycling as the top priority.
the package also contributes to optimising member states' contributions to the energy union and to exploiting the possibilities for cross-border partnerships where appropriate and consistent with environmental objectives.
croatia has been working to solve its waste management problems for many years.
although we were one of the first countries to recognize the potential of the circular economy, we have been more or less inefficient and unsuccessful in managing waste.
we need to create a safe economic environment for women, but they have to make their own career decisions, without the input of social engineers.
it is important for member states to prepare in time for the next perspective and to really have concrete implementation in practice as soon as possible after 2020.
mr president, crossborder pollution is a major problem that the european institutions must be able to influence.
it is unacceptable that the inhabitants of slavonski brod have suffered for ten years the consequences of air pollution from the refinery in the neighboring state of bosanski brod.
the european union institutions must play a greater role in influencing the way in which the transboundary source of pollution is tackled.
the people of slavonski brod have a right to clean air and we have a duty through the eu project to ensure the highest standards of ecological production in bosanski brod, with a guarantee that the pollution will stop, and i call on the european commission to get involved in solving this issue.
mr president, commissioner, organic farming can contribute to the preservation of rural areas and add value to them, thus contributing to sustainable development and the retention of young people in rural areas.
i am pleased that the precautionary principle has been improved to avoid pollution, to allow better access to organic seeds and animals, to allow farmers to run mixed farms, to apply stricter controls and eu standards on the import of organic products, and to strengthen the position of european producers by abolishing equivalence rules.
it is necessary to ensure an adequate budget for the common agricultural policy, in particular in the context of the increasing demands placed on farmers in terms of environmental protection, climate objectives and animal welfare.
if we take into account the benefits farmers bring to food production, the preservation of biodiversity, the survival of rural areas, the preservation of values and even the family, then it is clear that the cap budget must not be reduced.
so ladies and gentlemen, i can assure you that cohesion policy will remain a decisive catalyst for sustainable transport investments.
the purpose of today's debate is to promote sustainable transport and eliminate bottlenecks.
it is pleased that the report contains proposals that further advance the sustainability of transport solutions, smart mobility, multimodal and clean transport and urban mobility, as well as, of course, road safety.
our priority must always be the security of our borders and a stable and enabling environment for the development of the member states of the union.
firstly, that in our policy, in cohesion policy, transport must remain the main driver for sustainable and sustainable investment in transport.
because, frankly, for many member states we have appropriations waiting to be used up here in brussels and we do not have complete projects submitted, i am talking about feasibility studies, cost-benefit analyses, environmental agreements.
the ban would apply to all diesel vehicles up to the euro6 environmental standard.
the commission has already taken action to ensure that member states do not become a dumping ground for vehicles which do not meet environmental standards.
optimising the fisheries value chain is an important process that can ensure sustainability and thus save many coastal communities from depopulation and extinction.
i therefore call on the commission to abandon the quota system and work with parliament and the national authorities to find a better, more sustainable solution.
the process is not irreversible, so countries can reverse negative trends by implementing reforms and creating a positive investment climate.
this report highlights that greater participation of both the public and private sectors is key to advancing women's rights and economic empowerment in economic sectors as well as the need for women's inclusion and presence in new economic sectors that are important for sustainable development.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy.
this new comprehensive and updated agreement seeks to further strengthen multilateral cooperation in the fields of migration, security, defence (again, their troops in bosnia and herzegovina were one of the shining examples), the fight against terrorism, organised crime and climate change, as well as encouraging regular dialogue on reducing socioeconomic disparities, strengthening human and fundamental rights.
it is positive that the plans recognise the circular economy as one of the european union's leading public policies, and i also welcome the commission's proposal that the disposal of unsorted waste, mechanical biological treatment of waste and incineration of waste without recovery will no longer be financed from european funds.
we are currently in a challenging position in achieving the objectives of the waste directive because we have not followed the waste hierarchy and long-term planning.
the potential for our regions and local communities is huge, waste is a big political problem for most, but we in the circular economy see it as a solution.
the development of secondary markets for raw materials, the use of green and circular public procurement, the promotion of investments in the bio-economy, investment in renewable energy sources and advanced networks, and the promotion of innovation and business model development by smes in line with the principles of the circular economy are just some of the tools available to states, regions and local authorities.
through cohesion policy and the circular economy, we are strengthening a european union that is solidary, sustainable in the long term and economically resilient.
madam president, environmental protection and sustainability are an important part of all european policies, and the circular economy is a key model for achieving our ambitions in this area.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the cohesion fund and its impact on the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the cohesion fund.
the report rightly points out that the circular economy does not only encompass waste management but also, inter alia, the efficient use of resources, renewable energy, water management and improvement of air quality.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a decision on the establishment of a european environment agency (eea) to support the implementation of the european environment agency (eea) and the european environment agency (eea) in the field of environmental protection.
waste management, all that is really happening in our environment, speaks to the need to invest the money from cohesion policy into the circular economy.
i want to highlight one relevant fact - there is no success in waste management, no success in the circular economy, no opening of green spaces, unless local and regional governments are strongly involved.
there is a lot of evidence for this and my personal experience speaks very clearly in this direction and that is why i am calling on the commission to talk about what the failures have been when we talk about investing in waste management, because we have them, and what we will do to remedy those failures.
i think we’re all agreed that, if we get it right, the circular economy has the potential to support economic growth and regional development, while at the same time boosting environmental protection.
although the circular economy strategies are not yet implemented widely enough to be a new enabling condition, we are excluding the least desirable waste management options from the scope of funding.
again, the monitoring framework includes new indicators more closely linked to the circular economy and the objectives we’ve been discussing, such as the use of recycled waste as raw materials.
now we’ll also have a tracking methodology that supports environmental objectives next to the tracking of climate objectives.
so ex ante conditions that respect the waste hierarchy are actually conditions for funding circular economy, or those projects.
what i would like to emphasize, of course, is that one of the key themes of this statistic is the issue of climate change.
everything that affects agriculture, we know today, for sure, among other things, is climate change.
what's a big threat to the 21st century is climate-induced migration.
as much as many here today may not want to admit it, climate change is at work and it is the greatest challenge of the 21st century.
we have to fight this very strongly, and that's why i think climate diplomacy is very important, we have to professionalize it and strengthen it.
mr president, if we want a europe that is in every sense a safe environment for its citizens and for all those who find refuge in it, the improvement of it solutions for border control and surveillance is of great importance.
the support under the programme shall be provided by the commission at the request of a member state and may cover a variety of areas, such as public administration, revenue management, growth and the business environment, the labour market, education, health and social services and the financial sector.
they contribute significantly to climate change mitigation and adaptation and to the conservation of biodiversity.
they are essential for sustainable agriculture and improve food and nutrition security.
deforestation and destruction is not a good way to deal with this natural resource, and illegal logging and trade in timber is one of the five most important sectors of environmental crime.
this summer, i conducted a month-long survey of citizens in the republic of croatia, and listening to you here saying that we need, of course, to invest a lot of effort and money in making citizens aware that we should change our habits, i can say that 96 percent of the citizens in that survey said that they are willing to replace the products that they use today from single-use plastic with an alternative that will, of course, be much better for the environment and for all these problems that we have talked about today.
so i can separate the waste.
that this waste can very quickly become a secondary resource, as our vice-president of the commission said, to become a value for business.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
the gentleman was born in sarajevo, in a multi-ethnic environment.
it sets out a number of measures that suggest that we need a global regulatory directive that achieves the necessary balance between all stakeholders and interests, that is patient-centred, that guarantees access to medicines and sustainability of health systems, and that encourages high-quality research and development.
but for the union to be a functioning and sustainable community in the future, rural life must be preserved.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
if we can overcome the obvious infrastructure shortcomings of much of the union's rural areas and attract young people with lower taxes and cheaper energy, these areas will quickly come alive and gain a new perspective.
the basic things that need to be done, better transport connectivity of these areas, access to clean energy and of course high-speed internet coverage, and then economic activities will develop within them - some are mentioned like rural tourism, but every other economic activity like energy production, like various services, are also coming into consideration.
if we want a stable bih, we need to support a proper electoral law and a sustainable constitutional order.
what is the position of this proposal for a regulation in the whole network of european union legislation on renewable energy and emission reductions?
the objective of this directive is to protect human health from the adverse effects of water pollution and to promote universal access to water intended for human consumption and, in this respect, it is a step in the right direction.
the report, which i voted for, notes that member states should implement reforms as supported by the commission, within the framework of country-specific recommendations, and should in particular focus on policies that increase productivity and the potential for sustainable growth in order to move the eu as a whole towards decent jobs, access to social protection, irrespective of employment or type of contract, and wage growth that significantly contribute to reducing inequality, the risk of poverty and social exclusion, and contribute to improving living standards and supporting economic recovery.
i therefore support efforts to deepen it in the areas of the digital economy, energy and financial services.
the impossible fact is that three quarters of the waste in the sea is plastic, and the even worse fact is that by 2050, if we continue at this rate, there will be more plastic than fish in the sea, which we can't allow.
madam president, by adopting the energy package, the european union will continue to build its future on the basis of sustainability, environmental care, climate change adaptation and sustainable resource management.
the european union also ensures that citizens' money is not wasted on importing energy if we can use that money at home, for example to create new jobs in the bio-economy or energy efficiency.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures taken by member states on the environment and the environment protection.
madam chair, it is my pleasure to adopt this clean energy package after successful negotiations.
in order to allow the rest of the world to develop freely, which requires energy, without endangering the planet on which we live, we need to increase energy efficiency and the share of renewable energy sources.
energy has always been a crucial weapon in geopolitical settlements, and europe urgently needs energy independence.
reduced consumption and sustainable production of clean energy play an important role here.
it would also weaken our global position and undo all the good we've done in the energy field.
the maximum sustainable yield (msy) biomass escapement strategy is a model already used by the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) to manage nine short—lived species, for instance, in the north sea, the bering sea or the bay of biscay, and it has been very successful, for instance for anchovy in the bay of biscay.
digitalisation is the key to sustainable development today and affects all segments of people's lives.
the european consensus on development, which clearly defines the commitment and states that the eu and the member states will continue to support information and communication technologies in developing countries as enablers for inclusive growth and sustainable development, and will work to facilitate the uptake of digital solutions and promote the use of digital technologies in a number of priority areas, is one solution to bridge the digital divide.
the aim is to create an energy network, reduce taxes on digital products and services and promote competition, alongside better infrastructure and improved internet access.
we have succeeded in providing a legal environment for european telecoms that is both investment-friendly and pro-competitive.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's carbon dioxide emission reduction programme is a good one.
will we be able to develop the techniques for measuring and monitoring emissions and will we have enough data for a review, an early review, in just a few years to make that review of this regulation of sufficient quality?
but despite all the questions raised, i support the adoption of this regulation because if we did not do so, then co2 emissions from heavy-duty vehicles could reach almost 10% of total co2 emissions.
you mentioned the horizon study, i think that's the way to go, but of course it's not too much to mention here the climate change that has caused, that has caused, that there are more and more carriers, that there are ticks and that there are really problems on large agricultural areas and forests.
i therefore hope that by the end of this mandate the commission will continue to strengthen the single market, reduce administrative burdens and remove the barriers that still exist in the financial, services and energy sectors.
we trust that advancing on the rule of law will progressively result in a better business environment which is crucial to create more jobs and hence foster socio-economic stabilisation.
with the institutional framework complete and the legal framework largely in place, the entire rule of law system should now deliver more tangible results and a strengthened and sustainable track record.
recent attacks against journalists highlight the urgent need for the authorities to guarantee a safe climate conducive to freedom of expression and the independence of the media.
on economic reforms, the council has taken positive note of the continuous economic growth and has encouraged montenegro to take measures to ensure fiscal sustainability, decrease the high public debt, reduce the trade deficit, advance reforms in important areas, such as public procurement and labour market, and improve the business environment.
further fiscal consolidation measures are also required, combined with the timely implementation of montenegro’s reform priorities, which would lead to a more flexible economy, improved functioning of markets and a good investment climate.
i think this is extremely important and i agree with commissioner vell that, of course, there are other funds that can finance environmental protection and climate change, but this one should have at least one per cent of the next budget so that it can provide for those good things that are already recognised in the current life programme.
the budget must be realistic and sustainable and must keep pace with the needs of a dynamic community.
as co-chair of the life working group, i strongly supported this report because i believe that environmental protection should not be an obstacle to economic growth and employment, quite the contrary.
stopping and reducing biodiversity loss, decarbonisation and the transition to a circular economy are crucial for socio-economic well-being and global competitiveness.
the life programme is the only programme specifically dedicated to environment and climate action and remains a key and effective instrument for delivering assistance and achieving the objectives of the european union.