a recent internal report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc), leaked by the tageszeitung today, must finally open our eyes.
according to the ipcc report, we run the risk of undergoing 1.5° in climate change as early as 2040, instead of the end of the century.
energy efficiency is the best way to take cost-effective steps to avoid that.
we greens see the necessity of an even more ambitious energy efficiency directive, but we are open to some compromises to act together in this house.
that is what the climate needs, that is what the economy wants and finally, that is what the people wish from us.
although i think i can get the numbers right here of what kind of reductions we want in different countries and areas of europe, but also in those regions - you mentioned the rural areas - where the livelihood is a problem, i think they're not going to be very concerned about energy efficiency, because poorer people are going to buy the cheaper products.
mr president our combined agenda is 'clean energy' and the goal is to deliver on the paris climate agreement.
at the same time, we want to require member states to increase their production and use of renewable energy.
and we forget that nuclear energy is also clean energy in terms of carbon emissions.
the illusion here is to build as many wind farms as possible, solar farms, create jobs, end energy poverty.
we want to reduce energy poverty with the most expensive energy, renewable energy.
i hope that the bulgarian presidency and bulgaria, as one of the countries of the region, will bring new energy to the enlargement policy.
i am pleased to hear that the bulgarian presidency's programme gives high priority to further developing energy infrastructure, including the necessary gas infrastructure.
those who are concerned with this issue know well that energy security has been a topic for many years and that not all projects that could guarantee adequate gas security have been completed.
unfortunately, in my committee in the committee on industry, research and energy there has recently been a trend to question whether fossil infrastructure projects are needed in the list of projects of common interest (pci list).
it is not enough to emphasize that while renewable energy may be the future, it does not answer the questions of today and tomorrow.
mr president i voted in favour of the renewable energy report, which is an integral part of the clean energy package.
i think it's important that the proposal included a requirement that we would prohibit the taxation, the penalty of energy self-sufficiency.
this could reverse the senseless practice initiated by the hungarian government, whereby renewable energy production is punished by extra taxes.
it must be understood by all governments that renewable energy production, smart solutions and diversification must be encouraged and not hindered.
mr president i welcome the clean energy for all package, which also takes into account important issues such as energy poverty and climate policy aspects.
when it comes to energy efficiency, there's no question that we need to put a lot of emphasis on smart or smart technologies, processes.
i would like to point out that in regions where there are problems with living standards, people are not primarily concerned with energy efficiency, because buying cheaper products is a priority for obvious reasons.
mr president i welcome the clean energy for all package, especially its report on the european union.
member states often forget that the concept of a free energy mix in the member states is still common, and that energy security, solidarity, energy efficiency, energy savings, interconnection of energy networks and increasing the share of new and renewable energy sources must be taken into account.
the report also states that costly, highly polluting investments should be avoided and that investments in fossil-free energy should be made secure and predictable.
i think it is important that nuclear energy should not be counted as renewable energy in the member states, because nuclear energy is not a clean and safe energy.
at the same time, as a hungarian politician, i regret to see that the weakest link in this eu unity is hungary, or more precisely the policy of the orbán government: the leadership of a member state, for personal political calculation, is betraying the security of its country and its allies, betraying its economic, financial and energy supply interests in the service of putin's goals.
ladies and gentlemen, there is a very strong competition in the field of clean energy between european and other global economic powers to take the further steps needed to achieve the paris climate targets, and it is therefore essential to support research and development in clean energy.
unfortunately, i cannot agree with the part of the report that states that reducing emissions is a national interest for hungary and the hungarian people's party delegation, which is related to the withdrawal of energy subsidies.
the proposal aims to achieve the eu's greenhouse gas emissions reduction target of at least 40% by 2030, while ensuring that european industry is protected against the risk of carbon leakage and supporting the innovation and modernisation of europe's industrial and energy sectors in the decade after 2020. i support the rapporteur's proposal as part of the 2030 climate and energy package.
member states participating in the paris agreement have committed to keep the global average temperature rise well below 2 degrees celsius in order to combat the worst effects of climate change.
i also voted in favour of the report on accelerating clean energy innovation.
the report describes how the ways in which energy is produced, transmitted, stored and used have undergone a major transformation.
however, the clean energy report does not even mention nuclear energy, because while it emits less greenhouse gases than coal-fired power generation, the use of nuclear energy also poses significant risks.
the energy gains and benefits are diminishing in proportion.
when making such decisions, equal weight should be given to protecting farmers, avoiding a decline in agricultural production and protecting the environment, habitats, native plants and animals.
similarly, in everyday transport management, whether we are talking about the staggering congestion of cities or motorways, or pollution, a european strategy for cooperative, intelligent transport systems can also be revolutionary.
indeed, the role of regions and cities in reducing emissions and in combating climate change in general is of paramount importance.
so i think we can all consider and embrace the concept of what's called smart villages, which is essentially, right at the heart of the idea, precisely the techniques that enable precision agriculture, that protect the environment, and protect our environment in general.
as a socialist, it is particularly important to me that our efforts to achieve a social europe and sustainability and to uphold eu standards, and thus the eu's competitiveness, are not undermined by the post-brexit settlement.
we want to help farmers so that the next generation in rural areas can produce clean and good food for our food security, including in steep areas in the black forest, in the alps, while meeting the requirements for climate protection, the environment, groundwater, soil and sustainability.
cohesion: if we look at the catch-up needs in terms of infrastructure, standards, building renovation, social and environmental needs in some member states, for example in rural areas in romania or bulgaria, i think cohesion policy is still important.
at the same time, we do not support the introduction of unfounded indicators selected on social, environmental and demographic grounds.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
at the same time, i would remind you that there is a lot of publicly funded research and development going on across europe, and that it is eu money that is being used, and that has a right to exist, and that this money and this invested energy should not be wasted because we rely solely on battery technology.
as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, i welcome the report before us, which is in line with the requests we have made.
in the summer of 2017, the european soybean declaration was born as a result of a hungarian-german initiative, which aimed at the widespread use of alternative protein crops while preserving sustainability, and the replacement of imported soybeans with gmo-free european protein crops.
the cultivation of protein crops also contributes to sustainable agricultural production by improving the carbon balance, diversifying the crop and reducing the risks of weeds and pests.
the next item is the debate on the report of mr charles goerens on behalf of the committee on development entitled 'improving debt sustainability in developing countries' (2016/2241 (ini)) (a8-0129/2018).
i share the rapporteur's view that the programming priorities of the european neighbourhood instrument should also cover socio-economic development, youth and the sustainable management of energy resources.
for example, environmental tasks are estimated to cost €4 billion by accession.
this competition policy is ensuring a fair standard of living for the agricultural community, as the farming sector is under pressure from constant economic and climate-related hazards.
on the other hand, the dynamic change in the environment requires constant revision: other aspects are more important today than in previous years.
one area i want to talk about in detail is energy.
i was pleased to see that the budget proposal does not reduce the amount of money allocated to energy infrastructure development.
secondly, while i fully agree that heavy-duty vehicles’ (hdv) co2 emissions should be decreased, i must say that, if we really want to make a change, we must not focus only on tailpipe co2 emissions.
instead we have to use a broader well-to-wheels analysis for tackling emissions.
these actions can ensure generational renewal, training and skills development and environmental benefits.
this energy and cost for the external border should be declared as part of solidarity and therefore the resources of the member states protecting the schengen external borders and thus the security of the union as a whole should be increased.
i believe that the citizenship deal must be stopped, that it is neither politically nor morally sustainable.
madam president, i am voting in favour of this report because it is in line with the eu's commitment to transforming the european economy into a more sustainable, low-carbon economy.
the union has taken a leading role in the paris agreement on climate change, invested more than eur 220 million from the eu budget in green and low-carbon projects and introduced clear legal frameworks on energy labelling to better inform consumers.
the full potential of the ecodesign directive can be realised by taking into account the full environmental dimension of the product.
therefore, the relevant environmental sustainability standards should take due account of these differences and specific rules should be established for freshwater fish farming.
mr president heavy-duty vehicles are responsible for 5% of the union's co2 emissions and therefore regulation in this area is justified.
this situation therefore does not provide incentives for market players to increase energy efficiency and innovation.
the regulation is intended to monitor the co2 emissions and fuel consumption of new heavy-duty vehicles registered in the eu.
the data submitted by member state authorities and car manufacturers will be processed by the european environment agency and made publicly available.
the proposal will undoubtedly bring positive results in terms of increasing fuel efficiency and reducing air pollution.
fish farmers are currently not rewarded for ecosystem services that are important for nature conservation, while maintaining wildlife of european significance.
the demand for circular economy products and services is insufficient, often because they are more expensive than linear products and services, but their negative consequences and impact on climate change are not taken into account.
the circular economy is much broader than waste management, encompassing renewable energy, resource efficiency, the bioeconomy, agricultural and fisheries policies, food waste, air quality, research and development, innovation.
the circular economy is an effective support for sustainable development and the fight against climate change, and it is therefore important to identify and exploit its potential.
we, the socialists, are committed to a sustainable and economical circular economy, and monika smolkova has successfully represented this in her dossier.
the solution is to address migration at its roots in africa, to put energy into that, and since it's not a short-term process, until then, borders on land and at sea should function as real borders.
i agree that climate diplomacy should be a strategic priority of eu foreign policy.
the eu needs to take a leading role in this area too, and we need to finally develop an eu climate diplomacy agenda.
the paris climate agreement, the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals all give us tasks to do.
i agree that climate-related developments affect geopolitical stability, food and drinking water supplies and, therefore, regional security of the populations concerned, and, of course, they are also linked to migration flows.
the negotiations on the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and ukraine, of the other part, were concluded on 30 june 2015 and closed on 31 december 2015. looking even further ahead, i regard it as a development of historic importance that the armenian nation, freed from the oppression of the tsarist russian and ottoman turks, and then the soviet empires, has finally found its rightful place in the community of european peoples as the eastern bastion of a unified europe and the first christian state, leaving behind the era of mass genocide and communist dictatorship.
the programme allows young people to apply for solidarity-based projects in areas such as education, health, the environment and disaster prevention.
the increasing security challenges in the union environment and the changed euro-atlantic context require the building of a strong and autonomous european security identity and capabilities, which requires rapid and effective preparatory and organisational work by the commission and the eeas.
sustainability, environmental protection, safe transport and the transformation of the energy sector have been put at the forefront, and this requires continuous infrastructure development.
our primary task is to develop a comprehensive mobility strategy that includes the effects of digitalisation, environmental issues and, of course, responds to the needs of the population.
the integrity of the internal market, its massive purchasing power and a flexible and forward-looking regulatory environment provide a foundation that competitors do not have.
the historic task of the eiu today is to thwart the 'worse the better' tactics of xenophobic nationalists, because the eu is facing far-reaching economic, social, sustainability and security challenges that are more serious than migration, and these are what the european parliament election campaign should be about.
as a member of the environment committee, i have no doubt that zero and low-emission vehicles are the future, but it is also important to pay attention to international and global developments and not just to our own eu climate goals.
the implementation of the paris agreement is a priority, but the union, which is responsible for around 10% of global emissions, is not alone and cannot do it alone.
in the us, transport emissions are twice those in the eu, while in some countries around the world, the figure is rising by hundreds of percent.
in order to preserve the union's competitiveness, we need to set targets that are realistically achievable for car manufacturers, but reduce pollution within reasonable limits.
anyone who knows, anyone who has been around knows that it's impossible for manufacturers to adapt technologically to a 40% emissions reduction target.
it is a well-known fact that greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector in the union continue to show an increasing trend.
at the same time, reducing emissions and promoting the deployment of clean vehicles at union level is essential for the european union to meet its commitments under the paris agreement on climate change.
the proposal to reduce co2 emissions from new passenger cars and new light commercial vehicles sets emissions targets that are stricter than the current ones, with a 40% reduction in co2 emissions from new cars by 2030 and a 20% increase in the market share of zero- and low-emission vehicles for new and small cars by 2025 and 35% by 2030 for car manufacturers.
it was particularly important for the socialist and democratic group that the member states should take account of social and environmental considerations when applying the preferential tax rates and that we should not allow the favourable treatment of harmful or luxury products.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the european union is committed to delivering on the commitments it made in the paris agreement and to remaining at the forefront of the fight against global warming.
the second is that the eu is responsible for 10 percent of all carbon emissions.
the most important area is climate diplomacy.
it's a small step forward that now president trump feels that climate change is real, and it's not just a chinese hoax.
regarding trade policy and climate change, my colleagues will expand on my speech, but i would like to welcome the commission’s quick response to these issues.
i voted in favour of this report because i think it is unacceptable that we are dumping any kind of waste in the sea, but i think it is unacceptable that 70% of it is disposable plastic.
make no mistake: motorway tolls should compensate for the environmental impact.
this should remain a matter for the member states to decide, as it is at the member state level that the right balance between environmental, economic and social considerations is best achieved.
in fact, high tolling increases traffic on secondary roads, which increases the risk of accidents and damages the environment.
secondly, i am happy that the ʻwell-to-wheelʼ approach on vehicle emissions was taken on board and that there is a clear deadline for the commission to propose a methodology for this by the end of 2022. finally, the most important thing is to make sure that by changing legislation, the obligations are not creating an additional financial burden for the member states nor leading to a reduction in public transport services or to higher ticket prices that are passed on to passengers.
transport is the only major economic sector in the union where greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions have increased since 1990. this is largely due to the use of conventional fuels.
– madam president, i am really happy that, after lengthy discussions, common sense won over short-sighted interests and the co-legislators set a 2030 headline target of 32.5% for the energy efficiency directive to be implemented across sectors.
the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) report clearly points out that we have to do much more than we are doing already, and we should increase our ambition.
but let me clarify that there is no stronger reality in the future than climate change.
we can do nothing with our economic growth or industrial activity if the climate collapses.
there is a huge difference between the 1.5° or the 2° climate change, and that depends on our ambition in the energy efficiency directive and the renewables directive.
this depends on this clean energy package.
i have to emphasise also that it’s not only about climate change and the environment.
a higher ambition is a strong policy signal leading to more business actors to come on board for the energy transition.
it means consumers living in decent homes, saving on their energy bills, and hundreds of thousands of jobs created in the green industries – up to 900 000 jobs according to the european commission.
finally, let me emphasise also that this is the way to lift out millions of european citizens from energy poverty.
the clean energy package is designed to modernise the union's electricity system and to respond to the most pressing economic and energy challenges.
one of these, if not the most serious, is global warming.
the latest ipcc report paints a much grimmer picture of climate than we previously thought, which is why it is particularly important that we address this problem properly.
it is essential to reduce member states' carbon emissions sustainably and significantly, and therefore it is important to promote carbon-neutral technologies in energy production.
the carbon dioxide emissions per unit of electricity production in hungary are currently among the lowest in the world, but the hungarian government intends to further reduce them in its energy strategy.
the two main pillars of future hungarian energy production are solar and nuclear energy, which would account for almost half of the country's energy supply.
the common feature of these technologies is that they do not emit any harmful emissions, so they are not harmful to the climate or to air quality.
other the change in the patterns of frequency and volume of catastrophic floods observed worldwide is a clear consequence of climate change.
sustainable management of flood water should aim to provide the widest range of ecological services.
this is a huge opportunity for humanity to avoid, or at least reduce, the already-estimated losses and costs that we're putting on the climate change account.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i agree with the european parliament's position that we should give priority to the funds that can be spent on young people, economic growth, job creation, research and climate change, migration, defence and security policy.
rural communities themselves can benefit from these, for example through smart villages, or more specifically through their social, service, energy and education systems.
the next item is the report from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 178/2002 on the transparency and sustainability of union risk assessment in the food chain and on the general food law, directive 2001/18/ec on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms, regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 on genetically modified food and feed, regulation (ec) no 1831/2003 on additives for use in animal nutrition, regulation (ec) no 2065/2003 on smoke flavourings, regulation (ec) no 1935/2004 on food contact materials, regulation (ec) no 1331/2008 on a uniform authorisation procedure for food additives, food colours and food flavourings (com (2018) 0178 final) and regulation (eu) no 1308/2013 of the european parliament and of the council on the common organisation of the market in food and feed (oj l 347, 20.12.2018, p.
madam president, please.
mr president i voted in favour of this report, particularly because of its aspects on agriculture and renewable energy.
i welcome the fact that a significant part of the proposed expansion of life is being allocated to the new clean energy transition sub-programme, as the transition to a clean, low-carbon energy strategy is urgently needed to achieve the decarbonisation objective of the paris agreement.
the environmental sub-programme should also cover sustainable farming practices, including soil and agricultural biodiversity, soil and water protection and the overall concept of smart villages.