mr president, ladies and gentlemen, european citizens have denounced, in hundreds of petitions, the difficulties and obstacles which are holding back the spread of renewable energies.
they have been calling loudly for a stable, clear and transparent regulatory framework, not retroactive, to concretely promote the use, self-production and self-consumption of renewable energy.
the opinion of the committee on petitions put these demands in black and white, called for an increase from 27 to 35% for the union's target for the share of renewable energy consumption by 2030 and called for the reintroduction of binding national targets, which are crucial if we want to be credible in the union's energy transition.
the five star movement needs an ambitious but achievable 45% target to quickly project ourselves into the future of energy, which we want to be renewable, for the benefit of the climate, the environment, employment, and conceived as a common good and as a right for all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many points which are very important to us in this energy package.
one concerns the eu's anti-pollution regulations, which exist for all sectors but not for geothermal energy.
in italy, for example, mercury emissions from the 34 geothermal power stations, according to the only official data available for the tuscany region, are equal to 1.5 tonnes of mercury per year.
these quantities are not even included in the eu's inventories of polluting emissions.
in addition, some types of geothermal power plants emit more climate-altering gases over their life cycle than fossil-fuel power plants of equal capacity, but receive incentives for union climate targets.
for the union, geothermal energy with a high environmental impact is as if it did not exist: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that the commission has already made a number of proposals.
we have tabled amendments (357 and 358) to the report on the renewable energy directive to the effect that the european commission should study the problem of geothermal emissions in order to assess whether or not an ad hoc legislative proposal on geothermal energy is necessary for a truly sustainable, emission-free geothermal energy.
protesting against chinese anti-dumping practices is right but not enough: we must also have a globally competitive industrial policy in europe, and to do that we must create an ecosystem which will foster a genuine industrial revolution towards this transition.
we do not turn the paris agreement into a weapon of mass destruction; we are keeping the best part of these agreements, which is the attempt to ensure a fair balance between environmental and developmental considerations.
there are examples, such as renewables and biofuels, where we have sinned by being overzealous: the transition from first-generation to second-generation biofuels must take account of the social reasons for sustainable development.
turning to the energy efficiency directive, i think that the result achieved is very important indeed, the one in the itre committee, and that it must be preserved as much as possible during the vote on wednesday, confirming the ambition of this parliament.
in particular, i think it is necessary to speak out for a binding european target of 40% and i hope that the strong commitment to reducing energy poverty will be maintained.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union currently imports 53% of all the energy it consumes, at a cost of over eur 1 billion a day.
in a context of declining costs for renewable energy technologies, it is time to tap the potential of all actors involved in the energy transition: cities, regions, citizens, cooperatives, investors and businesses.
i share the choice of a governance system that can mobilise and coordinate all these actors to stimulate energy efficiency and the spread of renewable energy.
it is essential to reduce geopolitical risk by limiting our dependence on imports and encouraging green growth, but some details need to be revised: in particular, in relation to the energy efficiency directive, by setting binding targets for member states and, in relation to the renewable energy directive, by ensuring that it allows the development of an agricultural and industrial supply chain focused on a fully renewable and programmable energy source.
parliament finally approved new binding eu-wide targets for a 35% improvement in energy efficiency.
this minimum target must be achieved by a joint commitment of all member states through the definition of new binding national measures, including in the transport sector, which accounts for about 75% of final energy consumption in the eu.
the deployment of renewable energy in the union is hampered by complex administrative procedures requiring long waiting times.
parliament reached a broad consensus in favour of considerably higher targets for 2030. this is the way forward in the near future if we are to fight climate change and meet the ambitious paris commitments.
i hope that this important achievement will encourage the member states, where there are 50 million people who are in a situation of energy poverty, and where the use of renewable energy has a fundamental role to play in the development of a new model of energy system.
invest more in renewables, increase their use to 45% and work towards sustainable geothermal energy.
according to the five star movement, to change the energy landscape, we must be ambitious on the clean energy package.
that is why we have called for an increase in the target for renewable energy consumption by 2030 to at least 35% and for the reintroduction of binding national targets.
with regard to the regulatory vacuum in the field of geothermal energy, we ask the commission to take note of this vulnerability, to examine the matter and to make a suitable and sustainable legislative proposal as a result.
the current legal framework is quite old and no longer in line with the ambitious objectives of our reform policy in terms of greater sustainability, as mr mato said.
with no eu quantitative objectives and targets, there is no way to ensure that regional rules will deliver greater sustainability and selectivity in line with the cfp goals.
this is based on advice from both the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries (stecf) in 2012 and ices in 2016. ices, for instance, considers that the conventional way of fishing by beam trawling has a negative impact on ecosystems, while electric pulse stimulation, if properly controlled and applied, may offer a more ecologically benign alternative way of fishing by reducing unwanted by-catch, reducing seabed damage and lowering co2 emissions.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
finally, i believe that electrical pulse fishing, as a form of unfair competition for small-scale fishermen and as a non-selective technique which is likely to cause enormous damage to the marine environment, should be banned at least until more economically and socially sustainable conditions are established.
i would point out once again, however, that the mediterranean still lacks a macro-regional strategy, despite the fact that it is a single cultural and environmental basin.
there are enormous challenges at stake, i am thinking for example of the adriatic-ionian macro-regional strategy, and i hope that greater attention will be paid to the protection of biodiversity, the mitigation of climate change, waste treatment and integrated coastal zone management.
in this respect, i agree with paragraph 30, which encourages the use of green public procurement to stimulate eco-innovation, the bioeconomy, the use of secondary raw materials and thus the circular economy, so as to achieve high levels of protection of health and the environment and to create close links between producers and consumers.
to make the macro-regions increasingly protagonists of the new challenges facing europe: immigration, climate change, sustainable transport and mobility, large-scale comparisons between cities, states and regions on the civic and cultural level.
in this context, it is important that development is addressed in the right way, for example through proper recognition of the high potential of renewable energy sources and full adherence to the paris agreement objectives on climate and so-called 'blue growth', with particular attention to environmental challenges, caused by the need to tackle marine litter and to promote biodiversity and sustainable tourism.
the union welcomed the peace agreement between the two parties, reached in october 2016, as an opportunity to strengthen the institutions in the country and to improve human rights and sustainable development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the invalidation of the elections in august, the new elections immediately afterwards, the appeals and annulments, the police violence, the pride and tenacity of the people who are demanding democracy, transparency and rights: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to talk about two concrete examples of how trade, through good regulation, can promote our values and set standards at a global level, sustainable development, which we will talk about later, and regulation of trade in goods that could be used by dictatorial regimes to restrict the freedom of citizens.
– mr president, as the previous debate illustrated – and it’s basically the same audience and contributors here – i think we are all very committed to having a strong value-based trade policy, and that is why we are committed, in the commission, to having and promoting labour policies, labour rights and environmental standards in all our policies, including trade policy.
we have trade and sustainable development chapters in all our trade and investment agreements, and they are a key tool in promoting that – not the only tool, but a very important one that allows us to work with our partners and ensure a level playing field for our workers and enterprises.
countries, organisations, member states and parliaments have told us that they are still working on their proposals, but thus far there is broad support for a more affected and more assertive implementation of the trade and sustainable development chapters, and there are specific areas for improvement which have been proposed.
there is a need for increased transparency; increased communication on developments in trade and sustainable development-related proceedings; in dispute settlement; the strengthening of civil society organisations when it comes to monitoring; the effective implementation of the existing provisions; and more assertive enforcement and stepping up of pre-implementation efforts in order to increase awareness in our partner countries and tackle non-compliance issues.
the key issue here is that sanctions are supposed to counterbalance specific trade costs, demonstrating that the trade costs of a country not respecting certain basic social and environmental standards has concrete effects on trade.
with regard to civil society, it is indeed a very important ally in ensuring that labour and environmental standards are promoted.
we have already succeeded, in some cases in an innovative way, in incorporating in our internal regulations the binding observance of more ambitious environmental and social standards.
we are not asking for cooperation and dialogue with our partners to be abandoned, but rather for europe not to lose its chance to promote human, social and environmental rights with ever greater force and on an ever wider scale.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the sustainable development chapter in trade agreements remains the only tool we have to raise and address some concerns.
the commission has started a reform process which will certainly help to ensure that employment standards are better met, but i think that a similar commitment to environmental issues is lacking.
without a mandatory and independent system where stakeholders, trade unions, civil society, consumers and human rights defenders are able to submit complaints, any attempt to tie sustainable development to trade will remain a futile endeavour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, sustainable development in trade policy means first and foremost the protection of the environment and the defence of human and social rights.
women's rights are human rights and gender should be a transversal aspect of any political issue, as the un sustainable development goals remind us, but we know that it is feminist politics that first brought to the fore the issue of subjects that male history has carefully silenced for a very long time.
i would remind you that we should be talking about trade agreements starting from the fight against gender discrimination, from the defence of labour rights and the environment and not in spite of them.
we did, and now sofia is the best organized, i think, after zurich, thanks to your european solidarity, with complete composting, recycling, a domestic waste plant, a landfill - everything, as it says in european books.
written statements (rule 162)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today, when we look at the energy choices made by the european union, we see a picture in the dark, which is far from encouraging.
but in this case, despite the shielding of the majority of those sitting in this parliament from the total elimination of fossil fuel subsidies, which we have been calling for, the proposal on the governance of the energy union seems to be making progress by making the planning and updating of national climate and energy plans more participatory and transparent, and by exploiting the potential of cities, regions, citizens and businesses.
moreover, the inclusion of energy efficiency targets, the role of decarbonisation and the increased use of renewables are certainly moving in the right direction.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commission for presenting this strategy which is very important for europe, both from the environmental and economic point of view.
i 'll start with a fact: today, 25 million tonnes of plastic waste are produced in europe and less than 30% is recycled.
this is impressive when you consider that much of this waste is the number one cause of pollution in the seas: there are entire islands of plastic in the middle of the ocean today.
aiming to make all plastic packaging recyclable and reusable by 2030 is not only a way to protect the environment but it is also a precise choice, giving new impetus to the recycling industry, to innovation for more sustainable materials, to boost the competitiveness of our companies and to support employment.
the agreement on the circular economy package we reached in december will already give concrete start to many of the actions in the strategy, from strengthening separate collection obligations to waste prevention measures, such as the introduction of extended producer responsibility schemes for packaging.
this is the right time: there is a very attentive public to sustainability issues and concerned about the health impact of pollution.
citizens have already shown that when it comes to taking action to protect the environment, they are the first to adopt virtuous behaviour.
as has already happened in the past with other elements of environmental policy, this position of the european union will force other areas of the world to confront the problem in the same direction, confirming that the european union is able to exercise its global leadership in environmental matters.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, it is not necessary to look far to find stories of sexual or occupational exploitation: the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
we are now putting the final touches to ten major initiatives at european level, organised around four pillars: engagement, protection, sustainability and innovation.
i would like to say that the commission is very pleased with the work of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, and that it is very pleased that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has been able to take part in the debate on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
it is clear that we share the common aim of creating an effective legal environment so that we can ensure high—quality professional services.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
and it's clear why they did that, because in those same years, the auto industry was building make-believe cars, selling them as greener, misleading consumers and causing one of the most serious health problems of our century: air pollution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have often expressed our doubts about a market-based system for dealing with climate policy and climate action.
we fail to see the ets as the pillar of the european union's climate policies.
i have personally asked myself many times whether we are trying to protect the climate or whether we are trying to build a very complicated mechanism of financial engineering and speculation, whether we are trying to reduce emissions in the real world or whether we are only making calculations based on virtual numbers and projections, whether we are seriously applying the polluter pays principle, or whether we want to turn it around - that is, to continue polluting you just have to pay a dime - and, finally, whether we are really trying to push towards the industrial energy transformation of europe, so that it is really sustainable and competitive, or whether we are trying to keep the fossil-based model.
this is an important directive, where the climate policy objective of reducing co2 emissions by 40% by 2030 has been successfully combined with the competitiveness of the manufacturing sector and the push for further innovation with the ad hoc fund.
it is important, in this respect, to have updated the rules to define which industrial sectors are most exposed to the phenomenon of so-called carbon leakage, in order to capture the real level of exposure to commercial competition from countries that do not apply our environmental protection standards.
i would have liked to see a european-level compensation mechanism, as parliament has requested, but i think it is important that the commission has committed itself to carrying out a carbon market assessment, which also serves to understand how well the mechanism is working, and in 2024, if it deems it appropriate, to present legislative proposals towards a european mechanism.
we had done a good job for a year and a half, but in order to really strike the balance that is needed between climate and environmental policy and the protection of the competitiveness of our industries and the preservation of jobs, one chapter is missing, that of the compensation of indirect costs, which has remained the status quo.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has been fighting climate change for years by developing renewable energy in industry, transport and building construction.
in addition, europe will have to cooperate with both member states and small and medium-sized enterprises to maintain the commitments it has made under the paris climate agreement.
the european union will have to concentrate its action above all on the transport sector, which has been exempted from contributing to the reduction of carbon emissions for too long.
finally, i would like to remind you that focusing on the efficiency of public transport and clean energy will help to develop sustainable tourism.
to accumulate resources and thus energy, how many wars, treaties, annexations, laws and social classes have followed one another throughout human history.
technological innovation, on the other hand, has always been the tool of change, including social change, ever since man began to use the plow to produce the first form of energy stored in an organized way, food.
producing, consuming, storing and exchanging energy between peers, perhaps with blockchain, is critical to a decisive shift towards a more horizontal, more equal production model.
the widespread use of small, networked plants can give a major boost to the energy transition.
let us ensure that the energy union, with citizens at its centre, does not remain a closed drawer.
the key drivers of the eu's energy transition are embedded in the europe 2020 strategy, the 2030 climate and energy framework and the energy strategy 2050 that we have set ourselves as the union.
in line with these, the competitiveness and sustainability of european energy policy will only be guaranteed by a continuous stimulus to innovation in the field of clean energy.
the commission communication we are discussing today reaffirms this essential step, in line with the three reports voted in january of the so-called energy package, launched by the european commission in november 2016: the commission will present a report on the implementation of the new energy policy in the eu in the coming years.
in this sense, adequate investment in the medium and long term must not be lacking, both in financing and in human capital, represented in this sector not only by research capital but also by the direct involvement of european citizens, who are the prosumers of our energy market and innovators in this long transition towards a social ownership of european energy.
nothing, he actually recognizes the climate migrant figure, as if we don't have enough problems already.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its implementation in the member states.
the answers are many and range from economic to energy.
in the longer term, this could significantly erode trust in the judiciary as a whole, which also affects issues like turkey’s business climate.
in addition to renewing its diplomatic and financial support, as high representative federica mogherini has done, europe must work together with the un to encourage other countries - i am thinking in particular of some gulf countries - to renew their commitment, while at the same time seeking solutions to make the agency's operations financially sustainable in the long term, since it must no longer be at the mercy of unilateral decisions.
it also outlined possible ways towards building a union which is based on sustainable growth and which promotes economic prosperity, social development and equal opportunities for all.
the achievement of the sustainable development goals requires the creation of conditions for greater synergy between the different actors.
achieving inclusive and sustainable growth and job creation remain key challenges for developing countries.
the investment climate and the overall political environment in the european union's neighbourhood and in africa are not always favourable to private sector investment.
so, apart from these considerations, i am convinced that the european investment bank is doing a good job in some cases, but where politics influences projects there is a risk that too often we will end up with useless projects, still linked to fossil fuels, and that the objectives of this parliament and the european union will not be met in terms of combating co2 emissions and in terms of the europe 2020 objectives.
i am talking about the efsi and the european fund for sustainable development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the honourable member for her report, which in my view presents certain positive aspects, such as the importance of the objectives of the paris climate agreement, the potential of the eib to improve the economic situation in the neighbourhood and, above all, the emphasis on mechanisms to avoid financing companies that commit tax fraud.
secondly, the eib's decision to finance infrastructure projects with a high environmental impact and doubtful additionality, such as the tap, violates a principle, among others, that of precaution, which we hold dear.
i welcome with confidence the words of eib president hoyer when he states his willingness to provide real support for growth and job creation, pursuing the objectives of innovation, greater economic and social cohesion and environmental protection.
in relation to environmental policies, i believe that the eib should make greater use of green bonds, a financial instrument that has been in use for a few years and which experienced a real boom in 2016. this could be one of the keys to solving many problems, such as those of areas with high environmental pressure, such as tierra de fuegos, which would require investment in the remediation of contaminated areas, just as has already been done with the polluted land in belgium and the netherlands.
investing in the environment in innovative ways is essential to promote the economic and social growth of the territories in practice.
i would also not like to see us falling foul of the union's climate and energy policies.
finally, we tabled a number of amendments condemning the involvement of the eib in the financing of large infrastructure projects with a high environmental impact, such as tap.
i do not see the creation of another monstrous building with disastrous environmental and social impacts as a choice, let alone a responsible investment.
tap has a useful life of at least 30 years and, given the energy transition underway, will we still need this much gas in 10 or 20 years?
i would remind the commission that the posidonia meadows are nurseries for species of commercial interest, are essential for the protection of the marine and coastal environment and for small-scale fishing.
on the one hand, the european union is spending resources through life projects to protect our sea, and on the other hand, it is lending its support to eco-monsters like tap that are destroying the marine environment.
it is no coincidence that, as i have written to the commissioner, and i thank him for his presence, the italian minister for the environment has taken over the verification of compliance with eleven requirements for the construction of the gas pipeline, taking it away from local authorities, including the region.
therefore, we ask whether this decision violates directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the environmental impact of certain public and private projects.
in conclusion, we ask brussels to carry out an assessment study on the environmental, economic and social consequences of the gas pipeline, to give its opinion on the protests of the inhabitants of melendugno and the municipalities concerned, because the rule of law must be respected, because in the european union we want, the law of multinationals cannot apply at the expense of the rights of citizens, because our sea must be respected, because tap must be stopped.
the total cost of the project is estimated at $45 billion, with the aim of reducing energy dependence on russia.
a serious environmental impact assessment of the work is lacking.
there is no assessment of emissions and losses, there is no assessment of the compatibility of the work with the purposes enshrined in cop23.
i believe that this has to do not only with the environmental risks of the tap project, but also with the cancellation of a democratic decision on the implementation of that project and the cancellation of the rule of law that follows the militarization of that shipyard.
we talk about decarbonisation, but there's a fundamental difficulty in understanding that decarbonisation is not about eliminating coal, but carbon, which also means gas, which means fossil fuels, and instead of getting rid of our dependence on fossil fuels, we continue to finance them.
i 'm just asking you: do you think that a project with that kind of environmental impact could be built against the will of the citizens who live in that area?
every child should be guaranteed the right to go to school in a safe and free environment.
i said that parliament's priorities are those of our citizens and it is clear that the new financial framework must enable the union to emerge strengthened from the crises of the recent past and to face new challenges, such as the efficient control of migration, the fight against youth unemployment and internal and external security, and therefore also the fight against terrorism and, of course, the question of defence and the fight against climate change.
we all agree that the new financial framework must be geared to promoting welfare, sustainable long-term economic growth, quality employment and innovation, and of course to promoting the economy through social and territorial cohesion.
it is a very important debate because it has to do with the future, it has to do with the future of our undertakings, research, work, our young people, the environment, in other words, it has to do with the idea we have of europe from now on, in the next seven years.
the commission notes that most of the amendments voted by the committee on environment, public health and food safety committee last month go in this direction and provide real improvements to the text.
however we do regret the position of the environment committee in favour of withdrawing many of the empowerments that in the past years have allowed the commission to maintain the current regulation in line with the actual needs of the market.
the point is that decades ago the by-products of winemaking were given this small competitive advantage, that these products can be mixed into spirits, whereas the by-product of beer-making, which has only appeared in recent years - since we have it in non-alcoholic beer - is a waste product and does not have this advantage.
i think we should think very carefully about whether, without knowing what quantities we are talking about here and what we are going to get, we should just throw this waste product overboard, whether we should give this extra refinement and allow it to be mixed with spirits.
we call for measures to support crop diversification, the restoration of ecological areas, the preservation of the genetic diversity of local bee populations.
in the report i was rapporteur for in 2016 report on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility and their impact on international trade policies we were already trying to call for a reversal of the union's trade policy, a reversal that made human rights clauses binding, and not subordinate to those clauses that instead protect profit and investors' rights.
in that report we called for human, social and environmental rights to be defined not simply as non-tariff barriers but as central elements to be safeguarded in trade policy too.
i would remind you that among the broader goals of the united nations, the sustainable development goals, and in particular goal 5, state that gender equality, the empowerment of women and girls must be achieved by 2030. none of this is yet fully present in the european union's trade policy, and this report is moving in that direction.
cities have a huge responsibility in global warming and therefore have the potential to play a leading role in combating it.
clean energy innovations and small-scale renewable energy projects are key to achieving the objectives of the paris cop 21 agreement.
this, together with truly sustainable local public transport and more generally, with a correct and complete awareness and information of the citizens about the importance of the consequences of climate change.
the proposal also recalls, and this is a key point, the need to consider the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, remediation work and activities to regenerate and decontaminate polluted industrial sites as an important element in the evaluation of the performance of the operational programmes provided for under cohesion policy.
in any case, we will not accept social, environmental and fiscal dumping: the european union must be a force against protectionism, but one which protects citizens, workers and the environment.
for us, the economic policies of the euro area can in no way continue to follow the wrong recipe of this commission, based exclusively on austerity and rigor, which we oppose without question, because only through investment in high-return sectors and expansionary policies will it be possible to create real sustainable employment in the medium to long term.
the council's concrete commitment to ensuring the principle of reciprocity in both markets and public procurement, monitoring foreign investment and implementing binding rules on sustainable development, which should be part of all trade agreements, but which are often sacrificed, is needed to ensure growth and competitiveness.
the strategy outlined by the european commission is in fact a complete waste of time and it reintroduces, and exacerbates, the problems that the process of enlargement to the east was already posing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of climate change is particularly close to the heart of the five star movement.
we are pleased with the report because three of the points we have proposed are included in it, namely: the commission has already proposed that the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the remediation of polluted sites and the regeneration and decontamination of industrial sites should be considered as an important element in the evaluation of the performance of operational programmes.
two, the vital role that regions, cities and local authorities have in promoting the energy transition: clean energy innovations and small-scale renewable energy projects are key to achieving the paris goals, along with truly sustainable local public transport and more generally along with a correct and comprehensive awareness of the citizens about the importance of the consequences of climate change.
thirdly, condemnation of the irresponsibility of capitalism and the production methods of the old second industrial revolution, and therefore of economic activities and industrial sectors which still generate unacceptable levels of pollution in europe today.
i cannot help mentioning the economic, social and environmental disasters that have been caused in my country by the ilva steelworks, the enel coal-fired power station and today the tap gas pipeline.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
in my report i have highlighted some proposals which i believe deserve the support of the european parliament and the commission, and i am referring to the reform of the vat own resource and the eu's emissions trading system, the co2 tax, the transport tax and the electricity tax, a european-wide financial transaction tax, a corporate income tax and revenues from the digital single market.
we know what the citizens are asking and we know what the answers are that we have to give, and we have to be the added value for the citizens and for our businesses, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, on huge issues such as research, development, young people, growth, the environment, energy, agriculture: it is a question of the future of the community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i share some of the comments made by the speakers in this plenary on the priorities of the next budget and the multiannual financial framework, namely youth unemployment, the management of the migration phenomenon and also the fight against global warming.
we are demonstrating every day how much hope there is in investing in young people, not only for europe but also for the future and sustainable development.
this place, the double venue is an example of that, the waste we have seen to finance turkey, the waste we have seen to finance the culinary culture of insects!
the world has already changed a lot since the new sustainable development goals were adopted, the addis ababa agenda, the paris agreement, with big players coming out.
two final points: i would also like to speak of the environment, of course, of the 20% of our financial framework to be devoted to the environment, and i would like to speak above all of a social europe.
finally, a word on the fight against climate change and the green economy: at a time when the united states is no longer willing to meet its commitments to combat climate change, i believe that the 2019 budget should strengthen the union's frontline role, for example by providing additional financial support for the life programme.
i very much agree with you that the sustainable and further fight against youth unemployment is crucial for many young people in many regions of europe.
the eu-cuba cooperation and dialogue agreement is a first step towards a future of closer ties between cubans and europeans, a strong signal of sustainable development and cooperation against the short-sighted policy of donald trump, who is determined to perpetuate an anachronistic blockade with unacceptable consequences.
it is an opportunity to show that the european union is strong and can be the most responsible in promoting a fair and sustainable global order.
we have made some proposals, the web tax, the financial speculation tax and the environmental tax.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the current international economic environment, the challenge for member states is to ensure that income from economic activities is taxed where value is created.
and this is not only about ethics and respect for others and the environment, it is about long-term sustainable growth and profits for business: shareholder value.
among others, these actions have aimed to enhance the visibility of csr and disseminate good practices; improve company disclosure of social and environmental information; further integrate csr into education, training and research; emphasise the importance of national and sub-national csr policies; and better align european and global approaches to corporate social responsibilities.
we have been giving effect to our new public procurement legislation, paying attention to social and environmental elements, and we are working to finalise guidelines on socially-responsible public procurement.
and only last week we adopt an action plan on sustainable finance.
on the basis of the recommendations set out by the high-level expert group on the subject, the commission is setting out a roadmap to boost the role of finance in achieving well-performing economy that delivers on environmental and social goals.
it has been increasingly clear that there is no dividing line between csr and our wider work on implementing the united nations sustainable development goals.
if you act against the import of materials produced in sweatshop conditions in a third country, that is an issue of corporate social responsibility and sustainable development goals, and it’s true of our work on business and human rights as well.
because whirlpool and embraco have these beautiful volumes, they publish every year, about their social responsibility, they say that their activities are sustainable, that they are socially and environmentally responsible.
the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on the environment, and will continue to support the implementation of the union's policy on the environment, in particular the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment, the european union's policy on the environment and the european union's policy on the environment.
of course we ask the euyo to develop a greater capacity to involve musicians from all the member states, who must make selections as publicly as possible, and also to diversify their income in order to ensure with sponsors and other contributions and of course with their performances and tours to ensure their sustainability and reduce dependence on union funding.
we need a larger part of the existing fleet to run on alternative fuels in order to meet the eu commitments under the paris climate treaty.
in the current period of the multiannual financial framework (mff) eur 70 billion has been allocated from the cohesion fund and the european regional development fund for promoting sustainable mobility and transport, including the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure.
the commission's decision, through this action plan, to take action on a matter as important as the reduction of atmospheric emissions in the transport sector, that is to say in the sector which has now become the main culprit, the main responsible party, the most important polluter, is the right thing to do, provided it is done in a balanced way.
almost 80 years ago, europe was already operating a zero-emission freight transport solution powered by renewable energy.
it builds on existing infrastructure, enabling seamless flexible logistics to urban centres reachable by moving off electrified lines: for short distances with energy stored in batteries during highway journeys, with on-board electric generators or with conventional endothermic engines powered by alternative fuels.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that rather than promoting alternative fuels, which have very limited environmental benefits, it would be more useful to move decisively towards those which actually achieve the best environmental performance, such as electricity, which is only transient from fossil fuels, biomethane, which is only transient from methane, and hydrogen from renewable sources.
two trials: smart charging and vehicle-to-grid respectively allow to control the charging volume avoiding overloading of the grid during peak hours and to reverse the energy flow of the vehicle batteries, contributing to the stability of the system.
the five star movement obviously wants to overcome this logic and catch up with the spread of electric cars, for the benefit of the environment, the climate and the citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the effort sharing and lulucf regulations bring the european union closer to meeting the paris climate change commitment and the energy union objectives.
the lulucf regulation will provide a framework to ensure that emissions and removals from forests are accounted for and that co2 emissions from forests do not exceed carbon removals from natural basins, the so-called 'zero target'.
however, the agreement could have been more ambitious, perhaps with a net negative emissions target.
finally, as regards the use of wood biomass for energy, a truly sustainable strategy should allow only the use of waste biomass, avoiding the destruction of virgin forests, an approach which was not shared by the trilogue.
but a few days later, as we closed the negotiations on the regulations we are discussing today, and in particular the effort sharing regulation, the gulf between the climate rhetoric and the willingness to commit seriously to cutting greenhouse gases was staggering.
we consider this an unacceptable compromise, which is dangerously far from the international climate objectives.
europe has been able to show its positive side, to bring together national interests, on paper opposed, to achieve a high degree of shared purpose in the everyday lives of its citizens and the environment in which they live.
with this package, europe is firmly aiming at sustainable economic and social development, which can finally integrate industrial policies and environmental protection.
the circular economy is not just a waste management policy, but a way of recovering raw materials and not over-exploiting our planet's already scarce resources, even by radically innovating our production system.
the package we are about to adopt certainly also contains important measures on waste management, but at the same time it goes beyond these by defining rules which take into account the entire life cycle of a product and aim to change the behaviour of businesses and consumers.
just to sum up the main new features introduced: increasing the recycling targets for municipal and packaging waste; the introduction, for the first time, of a 10% maximum landfill leakage limit; the extension of separate collection obligations to organic, textile and household hazardous waste; but i cannot help mentioning the inclusion, here for the first time in european legislation, of mandatory measures to reduce the odious phenomenon of food waste, an environmental but also ethical problem, as well as actions to combat pollution of the seas by waste.
important rules have been introduced to prevent the generation of waste: this is not only because prevention is the first level of the waste hierarchy, but because prevention means making products that are repairable and reusable by design, and it means having production cycles that use resources efficiently, that reduce waste or that reuse it for new production.
i would like to say that we will vote in favour of this package, which is a revision of the existing waste directives, because we think the compromise with the council is a good one and because, for example, it increases the recycling targets for municipal waste but also for packaging waste.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
however, it should be made clear to the public that this is only municipal waste, which represents only 10% of the total.
so parliament should have been more ambitious, also to set a precedent for when it comes to changing the targets on commercial waste, industrial waste, construction waste and demolition of buildings.
for example, a binding target of 30% reduction in food waste by 2025 and 50% by 2050, a target for preparing for re-use absent and a target for preparing for re-use of packaging, the mandatory return of the vacuum system.
above all, we felt that there should be a total ban on the incineration of all types of waste, and that the subsidies to fossil fuels, from which all types of waste are derived, should be abolished.
the agreement sets binding waste reduction and recycling targets for municipal waste landfilled and will strengthen our waste hierarchy by placing prevention, reuse and recycling above landfilling and incineration.
finally, there is the matter of food waste, because we have insisted strongly on a 50% reduction in food waste: a fight that i have believed in from the beginning because we cannot and must not forget the weakest and most needy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking in this debate as the shadow rapporteur on the rules for drawing up environmental reports, a technical dossier on which we have been able to work swiftly and positively with all the political groups.
today we are discussing the completion of the important work on the waste directives, which set targets for 2035; but in these weeks we have started to debate, or will be debating very soon, other fundamental elements of the necessary transition to the circular economy.
the plastics strategy and the forthcoming legislative proposal on single-use plastics finally put the initiative in motion in the face of the huge industrial and environmental paradox of this product: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
the circular economy, in short, is not a dream, a fixation of environmentalists, but an urgent necessity to combine development and sustainability.
the agreement reached at the trilogue stage is not exactly what the envi committee wanted, but it clearly points the way towards a new development model combining industrial growth and environmental sustainability.
the new waste plan sets out medium- and long-term objectives with clear and unavoidable targets, such as strengthening measures to prevent waste generation, in particular extended producer responsibility, extending separate collection obligations to organic, textile and hazardous waste and a maximum 10% share for landfill waste by 2035. in line with the sustainable development goals, a 50% reduction in food waste and the achievement of a 65% recycling threshold by all member states are foreseen.
i congratulate mrs bonafè on the important result she has achieved, but the real work begins now: the european union has a duty to demonstrate to the rest of the world the real sustainability of a circular economy model.
but it is also offers us huge opportunities, especially in the environmental, economic and social sectors.
we urgently need to make more durable and recyclable products and, at the end of the cycle, use waste as a resource and channel it back into the economy.
taking a sustainable path requires multiple changes, of a technological, organisational, financial, social and also educational nature.
a central plan of action involving taking waste legislation in the european union to the next level with ambitious, legally binding landfill reduction and recycling targets for the period up to 2035 alongside targeted waste prevention measures.
it is encouraging to see that over the past two decades many member states have gradually improved their waste management in line with the eu waste hierarchy.
in 1995, on average 64% of our waste was still landfilled.
fifteen years later, in 2015, landfilling of household waste in the eu as a whole had dropped to 25% with recycling having increased to 45%.
in 2015, twelve member states still landfilled over 50% of their household waste and six of them incinerated 40% or more.
with regards to mr pedicini’s comment that we missed a crucial chance to set legally binding targets for other waste streams like food waste, marine litter, the reuse of packaging and so on, the new waste legislation foresees a large number of review clauses asking the commission to assess the feasibility to set such targets in the next years.
the new waste legislation that we hope you will approve later this week, will provide fresh impetus to this area.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it has not escaped anyone during this debate that the circular economy is a lever we have at our disposal to boost europe's competitiveness and a more sustainable economic development that protects the environment, just as it has not escaped anyone that there is still much to be done: i think of the prevention measures, i think of the need to consider industrial waste as well.
the worst result of the negotiations concerns the landfilling of waste: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive.
it is also regrettable that the preparation for re-use targets, which would have had a positive impact on waste reduction and job creation, have been cancelled.
however, our commitment to achieving much more ambitious results such as the introduction of binding targets for the reduction of food waste by 30% by 2025 and 50% by 2050, and for the preparation for reuse of packaging, remains unchanged; the mandatory introduction of the vacuum system to be used; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of waste.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has a solid environmental legislation, the poor and ineffective implementation of which is a longstanding problem.
the seventh environmental action programme, therefore, will not achieve the desired results, despite its ambitious objectives.
one of the causes is certainly the lack of integration of environmental concerns into other policy areas.
but there's a lot more: for example, no progress has been made on the development of a union strategy for a non-toxic environment and for the reduction of exposure to harmful substances.
the european environment agency itself notes slowdowns in progress in several areas.
as a shadow rapporteur, i very much appreciated the result we achieved in photographing the state of implementation of the seventh environmental action programme: we have indicated in committee the open questions and the areas where the union's environmental policy must act as a matter of priority, with those serious and concrete answers which have so far been lacking.
to prevent living well within the planet's limits from becoming a mission impossible, we need to make a real u-turn in many areas: for example, stopping the erosion of natural capital and biodiversity, making our cities' air breathable, and reforming pesticide licensing.
i hope that the attempts to undermine this report, especially by the ppe group and, in particular, by everyone, to conceal the role and impact of agriculture - especially intensive farming - on the environment will not be allowed any room in tomorrow's vote.
it's time to get back to the roots of that project: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
a great deal of work has been done in the french parliament to monitor this text, to improve it and to ensure that before it is ratified and throughout its application, it will comply with our requirements, particularly in the climate field.
but i would like to see a minimum of consistency in our future trade policy, which is ours, so that our environmental, social and health commitments are always reflected in our trade negotiations.
our trade policy must therefore be consistent with our environmental, social and health commitments.
i would also like to say a few words about energy policy.
firstly, i fully understand your concerns about nord stream 2 and i have to tell you that chancellor angela merkel herself expressed them a few days ago, recognising that this was an extremely sensitive matter because it calls into question our collective sovereignty, our energy sovereignty vis-à-vis russia.
i believe that this is the energy policy we must have and it will enable me to respond to your franco-german proposal on energy.
we must have an energy policy which is consistent with our commitments to reduce co2 emissions and which ensures europe's energy sovereignty, because if we give up anything, it will not be possible.
our intention is to develop renewable energies much more and to continue to do so, to improve the mix, to do so in conjunction with all european countries to improve the interconnections that also allow better use of these energies.
but we do not want to give up our energy sovereignty or the sovereignty of the countries around us.
i simply note that there is a requirement for safety, and we have it, and there is also a requirement for a reduction in dependence on energy production, which must continue.
if the closure of power stations leads to the reopening of coal-fired power stations, as has unfortunately happened in germany, you are degrading your co2 balance, which is exactly contrary to the paris agreements, and if accelerating this rate, without preserving your energy sovereignty, leads to increasing your dependence on this or that non-european sovereign power, in particular russia, to import energy, that is not a good decision.
it therefore fully assumes that it has an energy strategy with one top priority: reducing emissions.
we must embark on a transition in the field of mobility which requires going much further with higher fuel prices and diesel-gasoline convergence, which is also indispensable, and with a policy of investment in renewable energies which is absolutely essential to go much further and which will make it possible to reduce over time, at the rate recalled by the minister of state, nicolas hulot, a few months ago, the share of nuclear energy.
we have decided to adopt this strategy because it allows us to maintain both these lines: reduction of emissions and energy sovereignty.
i therefore hope that we, together with germany, will stick to both of these lines, and i will not give in to policies that would lead us to increase co2 emissions, even in the short term, or to those that would lead us collectively to depend on other powers to be able to run our economies today.
it stresses the need to promote alternative indicators to gdp, which take account of environmental, social and demographic parameters.
it hopes that in the next cohesion policy framework the structural funds for investment will be used more effectively to achieve the objectives of cop 21, with particular reference to renewable energy and energy efficiency.
europe must return to acting in the syrian theatre with authority and encouraging a sustainable peace process.
only in this way can we make a real contribution to the sustainable development of third countries from the bottom up.
it is essential to step up efforts to deliver the single market strategy, the digital single market strategy, the action plan and the creation of the capital markets union and the energy union.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the state of our planet's health shows that the 'use and throw' model has incurred costs and damage that are no longer sustainable.
the circular economy is also a key to waste, as it significantly reduces waste production, extends the life cycle of things and reduces the amount of waste that has to be landfilled.
we appreciated the effort made to set more ambitious targets to keep materials in circulation for as long as possible, including through the fight against waste, the use of by-products and new business models which already include extended producer responsibility schemes and targets for reuse and recycling of municipal waste.
yes, because our territories, such as puglia, calabria, sicily, campania, massafra and modugno, continue to suffer the consequences of the misguided policy of being more sensitive to the interests of business than to the protection of the environment and health, and of allowing the construction of new incinerators and allegedly new oxidation plants.
we cannot afford to let our guard down, and this is another area where we must act to protect the health of our citizens and the environment: we need to ensure that the co2 emissions measured in the laboratory match those in the real world.
the gap between laboratory and simulated emissions is currently 40%, and it will widen if we do not solve this problem with road tests.
that is why, as the five star movement, we will continue to fight for the introduction of a real driving emissions verification procedure.
the fraud committed by car manufacturers has not only been harmful to health and the environment, but also - and to a considerable extent - to public finances.
it is estimated that the misrepresentation of waste gases has created a tax loss of more than eur 46 billion in europe.
those who buy organic expect a zero-waste product: they don't want contamination from pesticides or banned substances.
in fact, despite the fact that parliament's mandate called for encouraging the sustainable development of organic production, ensuring fair competition for farmers and operators in the sector and improving consumer confidence, the final agreement represents a downward compromise, having failed to set any threshold for pesticide residues and now risking creating forms of unfair competition between companies in different member states and seriously threatening organic production in those countries which, like italy, are distinguished by having more stringent legislation.
although parliament has called for the promotion of sustainable development in organic production, fair competition for farmers, the prevention of fraud and the improvement of consumer confidence in organic products, the agreement reached in the trilogue after more than two years of negotiations is, in my view, lacking in ambition.
these were on food waste and on corporate social responsibility.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the climate of terror in the philippines has reached extremely worrying levels and cannot be tolerated any longer.
the regulation we have voted on on organic production and labelling of organic products makes important efforts and guarantees, for example, on improving the quality of food, protecting the environment and ensuring animal welfare throughout the production chain.
the current mff has proved insufficient to meet the real policy needs of the union, as a result of unforeseen crises and new challenges in the areas of investment, migration and refugees, youth employment, security, agriculture and the environment.
i therefore stress the importance of transparency with regard to the efsi indicator framework and therefore welcome the fact that the efsi indicator framework will be made public by regulation under efsi 2.0. we want to have parameters on social, environmental, real and actual economic interest in approving investments under this type of instrument.
however, it is worrying that only 20% of efsi funding has supported projects contributing to climate change mitigation and adaptation, while the eib's standard portfolio has reached the 25% threshold.
these are investments which must be directed towards reducing emissions.
i am particularly concerned about the eib financing of the trans adriatic pipeline project, which does not meet the minimum environmental and social standards of the equator principles, to varying degrees in the transit countries (albania, greece and italy).
as far as the efsi is concerned, parliament has already spent a great deal of time calling for the criteria of additionality to be defined in a concrete way in regulation 2.0. so we want these criteria to be applied, we want the whole question of environmental, social (because it is important that there be a social impact, with the creation of jobs) and economic impact to be made transparent (that is, we want the criteria for economic sustainability to be in place and we do not want to finance projects that are a black hole for public funds, because the guarantee of the european investment bank is public).
it is precisely in view of this, mr commissioner, that we hope that the debate which has begun today on the future financial framework - as well as the debate which is now about to begin on the future cap - will lead to an effective and genuinely common policy which safeguards not only the environmental dimension but also that of safety at work on farms.
i have therefore decided that sustainable sheep and goat production is a priority for the 2018 annual work programme of eu promotion for agricultural products and i have allocated eur 2 million for national programmes and eur 4 million for multi-member state programmes, and these figures have been ring-fenced for promotion campaigns on the internal market, on the sustainable aspects of sheepmeat production.
i can assure you that the commission will continue supporting the sector’s efforts to become more market-orientated and secure its long-term sustainability.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
all of these provisions are expected to have positive spillovers on the media environment within the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the eib's financial activities highlights some very important aspects, such as the need to promote financially sustainable activities or the monitoring of the added value, additionality and real leverage achieved with eib financing.
in the specific case of tap, the eib insisted on financing it by hiding behind the facade of gas supply which is certainly not a renewable source without taking due account of the social, economic and environmental externalities and ignoring the potential risks to the local population.
since this is essentially public money, the eib should instead direct its support towards contributing in a more targeted way to projects with real added value for the territories, the environment and sustainability, as well as to the creation of quality jobs.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we think that mr novakov's report is too unambitious on the real environmental sustainability of fossil fuel alternatives.
we would have liked at least a mention of the fact that transport is currently responsible for 32% of the total energy consumption of the european union and that transport emissions are responsible for 27% of all greenhouse gas emissions in the union, thus constituting a serious environmental problem in terms of air pollution.
we welcome in particular paragraph 15 of one of our amendments, which calls on the commission, in the context of the new regulation on cohesion policy after 2020, to propose more funds for cities to submit joint tenders for infrastructure or technologies that would contribute to the decarbonisation of urban transport and the reduction of air pollution from road vehicles.
during these long years, she has acquired a deep knowledge of the parliament and the political and institutional environment of the union and has worked tirelessly to strengthen our institution.
the rules on clean mobility, in particular those relating to fuel quality and the reduction of emissions from new heavy duty vehicles, are fundamental and, in my view, necessary to enable us to achieve the objectives of the paris agreement.
however, if europe is to become a true world leader in connected and automated mobility systems, we should be able to implement a fully digital environment for the exchange of information in freight transport in the short term.
and we should promote agriculture based on family farms, agriculture which is sustainable, agriculture which is also innovative, which shapes our cultural landscape, and also agriculture which is attractive to young people who can take agriculture in europe tomorrow.
a new green architecture means that we need clear conditionality in the first pillar, so clear environmental requirements, and we need strong agro-environmental programmes in the second pillar.
green architecture, sustainability, must not become less, but it must become more efficient and it must become simpler.
we must create incentives in the second pillar for sustainable agriculture, for real, good agro-environmental programmes, and we must also ensure that disadvantaged areas can play their part and get the money they need from the second pillar.
we have an opportunity to design an agricultural policy that is, yes, more environmentally friendly, but also that promotes a model of food production and consumption that is more sustainable, and above all profitable for all actors in the chain.
we do not want this reform to become the precursor to the decline of the agricultural policy itself, which must remain 'common', guaranteeing growth, productivity, sustainability and competitiveness to all our farmers, without the risk of distortions of competition between states or even between different regions.
the cap is, as i've said many times, an economic, environmental and social policy and the legislative proposals that we are bringing forward must reflect that.
i agree with mr kelly, when he expresses his pride in our farmers, and i think everybody agrees that the key role of farmers in providing high quality food in a sustainable manner is crucial from the point of view of the policy that we are trying to improve.
young farmers represent a great potential for innovation and diversification, as they tend to have higher managerial skills and abilities and are more likely to access new markets, develop new production methods and make the best use of technological developments and innovations in agriculture, which can enable them to respond to the environmental challenges of agriculture.
it is therefore necessary to provide strong support to young people who wish to introduce innovative production techniques and processes, such as precision and conservation farming systems, which are intended to improve the profitability and environmental sustainability of the agricultural sector.
the agenda includes the brief presentation of the report by molly scott cato, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on sustainable finance (2018/2007(ini)) (a8-0164/2018).
however, many challenges remain: the fight against corruption, the lack of infrastructure, the improvement of the business climate, youth unemployment, which is driving many guineans to emigrate to europe.
the european union has a role to play here, as insecurity, climate change, unemployment and migration are common challenges.
we also count on this cooperation to address the challenges of climate change, terrorism and illegal immigration.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources.
reduction of duties on certain products, including: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the demands of the world market.
during the campaign, president trump said that europe has many other barriers to importing american products, including our food quality standards and our environmental legislation.
even if we know very well that solving the libyan crisis would also be the best possible way to fight the traffickers’ networks, to save lives, and to guarantee a sustainable, manageable, humane approach to this.
this alarm comes from those who suffer competition from those who exploit labour, being subject neither to our taxation nor to our rigid and costly environmental and social standards.
another type of dumping which is not often mentioned is environmental dumping.
it may be useful, one day, to discuss the criteria for lists relating to the environment and to draw up a blacklist of states which, at home, do not respect the criteria which are our common heritage.
we talk about 'social' and 'fiscal', but we often forget that there is environmental dumping today, because some countries do not want to comply with certain rules for economic reasons.
and it has committed another 85 million euros to cooperation programmes for humanitarian demining, sustainable development, the fight against climate change, innovation, technology, education, human rights... look at this encouraging fact: thanks to the end of the armed conflict with the farc, and to the international cooperation that you are providing us, colombia went from being the second country with the most victims caused by anti-personnel mines to being the tenth today.
and i'm handing over to my successor, in a little over two months, a country without armed conflict with the farc; a country with less poverty, with more equality, with more jobs, with more and better education, with a health system that now has universal coverage, with much better infrastructure, and a country committed to caring for our extraordinary biodiversity.
this requires targeted measures: the commission has also proposed that the member states should establish common rules on the protection of the environment, such as common marketing and control rules, with associated penalties, also applied to conservation measures, in order to promote a transparent and quality market.
market measures are needed to increase the traceability of fish caught, and rewards and incentives for sustainable fishing practices.
and i believe that the priorities of the future cap must include the need to make farms more sustainable and to fully engage in the circular economy and to promote innovation, research and smart practices.
we have worked well and quickly, but above all well in spite of the tight deadlines and i must really thank all the colleagues who in the various committees, starting with the environment committee and all the other committees for opinions, have worked in a great spirit of constructive collaboration to give a rapid response to our citizens and we have achieved the objectives set.
i said the first goal is to save lives, but our goals are many because we want to prevent economic loss, environmental damage, protect our artistic heritage, biodiversity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the recent disasters which have devastated europe, many of which are linked to climate change, it was desirable to amend the decision on a union civil protection mechanism.
when it comes to location, it is also the role of the regions to provide an attractive environment for investment and growth.
i think it is very important to give uniformity to conditions which are: the rights of persons, which must be regarded as inalienable, irrespective of the country in which they work; material conditions, which must be uniform and which must correspond to their professional capacity and not to short-term market conditions; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the environmental conditions, which are essential for those who work, but also for those who live in european countries.
whether political, economic or social, gender equality, women's empowerment and self-determination are essential to achieving the goals and targets of sustainable development.
finally, let me recall that in less than a week we will have the european development days under the main topic of ‘women and girls at the forefront of sustainable development: protect, empower, invest’, and i hope many of you will be there, because putting women, girls and gender equality at the forefront of sustainable development is key for ensuring a brighter, more inclusive and more prosperous future, and we fully count on your support.
because the correct design of products and services, throughout their life cycle, brings innumerable benefits in terms of both energy and material use - and this has been very well mentioned by my colleagues - and therefore directly also on the environment and the climate, but it also leads to incredible results in terms of employment and business opportunities.
there is a study by the epa, the us environment agency, which is illuminating, which tells us that for every 10 000 tonnes of waste, one job is created in incineration, six jobs in landfills, 36 jobs in recycling centres and as many as 296 jobs in the reuse, recovery and repair sector.
will this europe fully seize the opportunities to become a resilient and sustainable society?
we welcome the many positive aspects contained in the text, relating to the certification procedures for airworthiness requirements, flight conditions, safety, components, environmental requirements and airports.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a regulation under consideration fills a serious gap: the lack, to date, of a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying data on carbon dioxide emissions and fuel consumption of heavy-duty vehicles registered and placed on the market in the european union.
this lack of information has firstly resulted in reduced competition among european heavy-duty vehicle manufacturers, with little incentive to innovate and implement energy-efficient technologies.
in addition, this lack of information has been a drag on eu national action to reduce emissions from heavy-duty vehicles, given that 25% of co2 emissions from the road transport sector come from trucks, buses and coaches, which account for 5% of total emissions.
the regulation will make available on the european environment agency's website, within two years, data on carbon dioxide emissions and consumption of all categories of newly built heavy-duty vehicles.
the european commission's proposal was already a good starting point and the work of comparison with colleagues from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and with the bulgarian presidency of the council and the commission itself has enabled us to reach an even more ambitious compromise.
another of the qualifying points we have insisted on as a parliament is the inclusion of the result of road tests in the annual publication of the data to compare the vector data measured in the laboratory with the emissions under real driving conditions.
europe is moving towards a more competitive and low-carbon economy than it is today, with 94% of its transport sector still dependent on oil.
today we are taking another step towards a new alliance between industry and the environment, an alliance capable of creating new and good jobs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, until yesterday we had no data on emissions and no data on fuel consumption.
today, finally, we are introducing monitoring and reporting of co2 emissions and fuel consumption data from new heavy duty vehicles.
this regulation fills a gap, because finally the comparison of data obtained by the vector simulation software and collected in the public register that is being set up will allow small and mediumsized enterprises and public administrations to make informed purchasing choices, guiding them - hopefully - towards models that generate the greatest fuel savings and not only that, of course we are also talking about emissions.
but let us not forget that the most important battle will be fought in the coming months, with the setting of co2 reduction targets for these vehicles, which alone are responsible for 30% of total road traffic emissions and are projected to grow by a worrying amount.
i conclude by saying that we must listen to the virtuous companies and motorists who are already asking us today to cut emissions by at least 24% by 2025 and to push decisively towards the electrification of heavy vehicles.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking mr damiano zoffoli, of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and mr nicola caputo, of the committee on transport and tourism, for their work on this important dossier.
the transport sector contributes significantly to total emissions in the european union, with heavy duty vehicles playing a predominant role.
the targets europe has set for reducing emissions are ambitious, but i believe they will be difficult to achieve if we are not able to monitor and compare data on heavy vehicles, as we already do for cars and light vehicles.
if we want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from road transport by 60% by 2050, we need to have a system for monitoring emissions and consumption for heavy duty vehicles too.
finally, it will also be possible to obtain reliable data on fuel consumption and emissions for these vehicles.
in fact, following the dieselgate scandal, there is an increasing need to collect and disseminate data on real driving emissions, rather than those calculated in the laboratory.
the data collected will be managed in a database by the environment agency, but i am convinced that there is no need for a road transport agency, which could not only ensure that this information is publicly available, but also that sensitive and commercial data is protected.
– mr president, thank you for this debate which confirms the importance to act on co2 emissions from heavy-duty vehicles.
this approached, agreed for the publication, does strike such a balance considering the high influence of this parameter to the fuel consumption performance and hence co2 emissions of vehicles.
on diesel cars the commission sees a need for accelerating the uptake of zero and low-emission vehicles in an effort to improve air quality and lower co2 emissions, while following an approach of technological neutrality.
finally, let me again stress the benefits of addressing hdv emissions, very quickly.
and fifth, we will fight against climate change and improve the air we breathe, in particular in eu cities.
so, as a next step, the commission counts on the co-legislators to replicate the success of this file when negotiating the co2 emissions standards for lorries.
i would like to thank commissioner cañete, with whom we have had a good meeting, we have discussed and found the right balance, the whole structure of dg clima, the bulgarian presidency and of course the shadow rapporteurs from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
we are open to your ideas and views to further address this issue with a view to ensuring the sustainability of stocks for future generations and the long—term viability of this segment of the sector.
i believe that this parliament and the commission should also discuss better the pollution parameters between urban and industrial waste.
the only way we will find a sustainable solution for the migration issue – which will not go away, whatever we do – is if we do all these things at the same time.
the stability and sustainability of the euro area are linked to the creation of an optimal currency area.
the impact of this type of fishing is very important from an economic, social and environmental point of view.
for this reason we have asked the commission to assess the role of recreational fisheries in the future common fisheries policy, including multiannual plans, so that both commercial and recreational fisheries can be managed in a balanced, fair and sustainable way.
this is a crucial point, because only if the interests of commercial and recreational fishermen are properly defined and regulated will it be possible to protect the environment and stocks, because there must be no conflict between the two types of fishing but cooperation in order to protect resources.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, blue growth places aquaculture among the sectors with the greatest potential for sustainable jobs and growth.
despite these figures, the sector still suffers from a number of problems, first and foremost the lack of financial support within the emff, about 15%, and the lack of transparency on concessions, which often leads to non-application of environmental rules.
in addition, information on the use of vaccines and antibiotics in aquaculture should be provided, taking into account the possible risks to human health and also to the ecosystem and bearing in mind the issue of antimicrobial and antibiotic resistance throughout the chain.
finally, fish feed must be sourced sustainably and must not compromise the objectives of the maximum sustainable yield of the common fisheries policy, possibly by increasing the use of seaweed and other algae.
this will also help... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with this resolution on the modernisation and updating of the eu-chile association agreement, the european parliament rightly calls for improved cooperation in areas which we consider important, such as those relating to human rights, the implementation of international agreements on climate change, the conventions of the international labour organisation, and respect for the social rights of workers, women and lgbtqi people.
the report on the circular economy which we are about to vote on is very ambitious and full of meaning, especially for those of us who, like me, come from campania, which, it is good to remember, has been tormented for decades by criminal associations which, in defiance of any norm, including ethics, have caused the pollution and destruction of one of the most beautiful territories in italy.
reducing the amount of waste that ends up in landfills and securing and cleaning up landfills, both legal and illegal, is a top priority of the text we are adopting.
the commission is now being asked to take action and make an extraordinary effort to clean up areas used for illegal dumping and burial of hazardous waste, which is damaging to the health and economic and social well-being of the people involved.
the task of politics is to provide answers and solutions to people's problems and to ensure that the right to live in a healthy environment is respected.
today, however, we know how much it can be a key element in the sustainable development of a region and how it can provide answers to the challenges facing local communities.
as the excellent report states, there is an urgent need for special measures to clean up areas used for illegal dumping and burial of hazardous waste, which is harmful to the health and economic and social well-being of the people concerned.
we have been condemned for the waste emergency in campania was mentioned earlier and for the pollution of urban waste water.
we have recently been referred to the european court of justice for another 44 irregular dumping sites, for failure to secure radioactive waste and for exceeding the emission limits for pm10 and dn.02.
i ask you how you intend to reduce the economic and social gap if these citizens of the b-class are repeatedly violating their fundamental right to health and environmental protection and eventually have to pay the very high fines you impose on them.
a real revolution, then, is that of the circular economy and innovation, which restores dignity to the environment and human capital and which cannot be experienced only as industrial innovation of process and product, but which must involve and enhance territories, urban communities, rural communities and human capital, also to overcome any resistance to change.
building within the vision of success of these years a new connection between policies, research in the service of sustainability, active policies for work, oriented to the processes of promotion of the business system, an increasingly inclusive vision of the community.
if we don't act on climate change, on terrorism, on poverty, on drought, on famine and poverty for peace, we will have biblical migration.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the opening of negotiations for the new partnership agreement between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific states represents a great opportunity to improve the characteristics of the cotonou agreement and to contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development objectives.
at the same time, the challenges of today embodied in the un 2030 agenda and the african union 2063 agenda need to be highlighted in the new agreement as well: the european union is committed to the development of a sustainable economy, the fight against climate change, the definition of legal pathways for immigration and the promotion of peace.
some countries of the union have set up agreements of a neo-colonialist nature, in which only in words were sustainable measures on human rights, new social norms and environmental protection aimed at, but in fact they have fuelled trade liberalization, imposing high prices on our products, such as new medicines, such as processed products or those of advanced technology such as mobile phones.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new agreement will have to be firmly rooted in the 2030 agenda, with a mechanism to monitor the progress made by both sides in implementing the new sustainable development goals.
let us work to ensure that the new partnership does not abandon its commitment to the fight against poverty and is a tool for addressing needs and protecting rights and for sustainable development that truly leaves no one behind.
the council supports in a sustainable manner the use of the common european framework of reference for languages and recognises the impact of the european language label award for excellence and innovation in language teaching.
the fight to safeguard biodiversity and wildlife conservation also requires a firm stance against the illegal ivory market.
the agenda calls for the report by ms françoise grossetête, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european defence industrial development programme to support the competitiveness and innovation capacity of the european defence industry (com (2017) 0294 - c8-0180/2017 - 2017/0125 (cod)) (a8-0037/2018)
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to congratulate the agreement reached in the trilogue on the modernisation and improvement of the european framework for the collection of integrated farm statistics.
and in the defence of environmental rights, as in the defence of human rights, the most exposed are women who, for this reason, too often, are victims of sexual violence, harassment, extortion and smear campaigns.
it is also essential that the european union, in its foreign policy, takes account of the situation of indigenous peoples' rights in the negotiation of trade and cooperation agreements, just as it is essential that the union invests in campaigns to raise public awareness, outside and within the european union, of the issue of land rights and the role that indigenous peoples play in protecting biodiversity and the environment.
finally, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr assis, for his work on this report which is so important for the european union and for the environment in general.
indigenous peoples have a unique relationship with the land and the environment in which they live: for these people, the land is life, and their close relationship to it and its resources transcends the concept of property in western societies.
we proposed a number of very concrete measures in this area too, but after almost two years and countless appeals, the european commission - and i am addressing the commissioner here - continues to stand by while the multinationals continue to enrich themselves at the expense of the environment and the fundamental rights of these ancestral peoples.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when you start reading the text of this resolution, you immediately see a number of high-profile names: the un agenda on sustainable development, the kyoto protocol, the paris agreement on climate change: all big names for one big failure.
we believe that these names should be changed; maybe we should just admit that there's a big problem, and that's that climate change is dependent on the exploitation and consumption of fossil resources, fossil fuels.
and not just from climate change, but also from the political instability of african countries, their poverty and therefore the migration flows and therefore also the thousands of premature deaths.
so if we really want to fight climate change, let's stop being the virtuosos in europe and then the colonialists in africa.
if we really want to fight global warming, let's stop countries like france from exploiting africa's resources because we're all going to pay the price.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the historical responsibility for climate change and the damage it causes lies squarely with the major emitters: asia, north america and europe are the most industrialized regions of the world, and these are the areas that actually drive the development of the poorest countries as well.
once again, trump's decision to withdraw the world's largest emitter from international commitments is stigmatized, and we know that climate change, in addition to the environment, also affects social injustice, migration, famine, disease and poverty.
the union's leadership led to the signing of the paris agreement, but the global transition to a net-zero carbon, climate-resilient economy requires significant investment, which even europe does not always seem willing to make.
instead, we need to invest decisively and without hesitation in the sustainable economy, strengthening our environmental leadership and forcing other economies to do the same so that we are not cut off.
but while rescues under international law remain as they were, reception centres are exclusively on a voluntary basis, redistribution is a topic that cannot be discussed, it is clear that the 2020 target is a target that is not good, because in 2020, from now to 2020, although the migratory flows are also decreasing at this stage, however, in some countries there is a risk of establishing a situation that is unacceptable from all points of view, which feeds an anti-european climate towards these institutions that is no longer manageable.
who speaks of the tens, soon hundreds of millions of africans fleeing desertification, climate change, the theft of land and water by corporations?
the numbers, with solutions shared by all the member states, such as those which this parliament has called for by a large majority, can absolutely be tackled with sustainable solutions and which can also bring important benefits to our local communities.
we believe that smes should be able to operate in an environment that really enables them to start and grow their businesses, and we have been working across the commission to address exactly this objective: from the start-up initiative, through our work on the single market initiatives, through a strict line on enforcing late payments, for example, to the new skills agenda.
as you are aware, we are currently carrying out a thorough evaluation of the sme definition to examine if it is still fit for purpose in the current business and finance environment.
we know that innovation means not just focusing on small and medium-sized enterprises that have a strong disruptive and change capacity, but also on those that can enable incremental innovation, that gradually changes the ecosystem and makes it grow.
today greece is ready to stand on its own feet again and with the sound foundations for sustainable balance and inclusive growth.
today, greece’s budget is running a solid primary surplus, above 4% for two consecutive years, and has been made more sustainable through ambitious taxation and patient reforms.
already in the esm programme, we had agreed short term debt measures that reduced the debt to gdp ratio by 25% in 2016. in the last eurogroup, we agreed to an even more substantial package of measures to make greece’s debt sustainable.
beyond that, the only, and i say this with all seriousness, the only strategy for a sustainable and effective reduction of greek debt is growth.
this is the whole philosophy behind the agreement of 22 june: to give greece a breath of fresh air so that it can return to growth in a sustainable way and put an end to the debt spiral.
the agreement reached by the eurogroup on the conclusion of the third european stability mechanism (esm) programme and the additional debt relief is a milestone in the process of returning greece to sustainable growth and to autonomy.
together with the reforms, the significant debt relief – in particular with the cash buffer, the upfront deferral of european financial stability facility (efsf) interest and amortisation until 2033, and the binding commitment to additional measures if needed – now makes the greek public debt sustainable.
in this context, while it is important to continue ensuring fiscal sustainability, i regret that the imf – the imf, not the commission – has imposed clearly unnecessary additional fiscal measures in relation to pensions and personal income tax for 2019-2020. this shows why it is important to reform the esm and, while the outperformance of the primary balance would fortunately allow those measures to be fully offset with the tax and spending package, i think it would be wise to allow greece to redefine the timing and the nature of such a relevant reallocation of resources.
and it is impossible in a civilized country to consider the fields as sustainable.
are environmental issues; the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
i am glad that there is a common vision and that a climate of loyalty can be built between the commission and parliament to try to achieve these objectives, and i believe that we will succeed in full.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will be much quicker, i have only an oral amendment to add a paragraph 1a, which reads verbatim 'stresses that the eu must be at the forefront of implementing the un sustainable development goals (sdgs) by integrating them into all eu policies; "
the rapporteur.
i would like to start by mentioning the violent fires which struck greece in july, killing more than 90 people and injuring more than 200. the fire also destroyed over a thousand homes and caused enormous environmental and economic damage.
yet another proof of the scale of climate change and the damage caused by global warming.
if there are requests from two political groups to hold a debate, i can ask if, when we vote on the debate proposed by the ecr group and the gue/ngl group on the fires in greece - we will then see whether or not with a resolution - the two political groups proposing the debate agree to add the fires in greece and the fires in other parts of europe also caused by climate change to the title.
i am sure that it will be a success, because it is with the energy and enthusiasm of young people that we can succeed in building a better, fairer and more united europe.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
i believe that excluding migrants, asylum seekers and environmental refugees from a programme of this kind is a failure to achieve the spirit of integration and cooperation which should be at the heart of this programme.
structural reforms not only create an environment that is conducive to investment growth and job creation, they can also help eu economies withstand shocks and contribute to economic and social cohesion.
we need structural reforms that promote sustainable growth, in addition to the social issues i have already mentioned, and for this we must combine national efforts with the support, where necessary, of the european institutions as well.
i note with great satisfaction that greece managed to complete the important project in the programming period 2007-2013 in the fields of transport, digital infrastructure, entrepreneurship, the environment and social and health care.
the prerequisite for successful reintegration into the labour market is ensuring the right to a healthy, safe and well-adapted working environment, as clearly recalled in the european pillar of social rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, due to the effects of the crisis, which has been ongoing since 2008, and the unprecedented influx of refugees and migrants in 2015 and 2016, greece has faced liquidity problems and a lack of public funds for the investments needed to foster a sustainable economic recovery.
in this respect, as we have stressed in several amendments, and as stated in paragraph 12, further information on the added value of these funds from the point of view of social and environmental sustainability would be useful.
we want a sustainable publishing and cultural industry ecosystem, where power is matched by accountability.
in this legislature progress has been made only in the field of the environment and perhaps in military cooperation, but if, in a time of crisis, priority is given to free trade relations with third countries rather than to the building of effective welfare, this means that a decision has been made intentionally to create a multi-speed europe.
in the context of the european semester in june this year, the council welcomed the fact that in most countries, recent pension reforms have had a positive impact on sustainability by containing public expenditure dynamics.
we have drawn up a proposal which, in total, provides for a budgetary approach to commitments of eur 164 billion for the year 2019. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
in order to put the priorities into concrete action, i would like to give a few examples of the measures we have taken: we have provided for an increase of 10% in this proposal for the erasmus programme, an increase of 6% for the subject of the horizon 2020 research agenda, an increase of 25% for the extension of our energy network, an increase of 30% for the infrastructure in this area in europe and, in parallel, an increase of 30% for the transport networks, an increase of 55% in the area of migratory capital, of which an additional 10% for foreign policy, with a conscious focus on our priority subject of the western balkans, and an increase of 40% for the convergence in the sense of the common partnership for the future.
i believe that we have the chance to strengthen the common ground in the coming weeks and months, starting with this debate - a great chance, which is that we have the chance for all sides - parliament, the commission, but above all for us - with our proposal to negotiate and adopt a sensible, sustainable and also correct budget for 2019. i can assure you and promise you that we, as the austrian presidency of the council, will do everything we can to conduct these joint negotiations constructively and to do everything we can to achieve a good result.
so from this perspective, there's a fundamental concern for the environment and for the oceans, which are full of this plastic, but we also remember that 31 percent of plastic still ends up in landfills and as much as 39 percent ends up in incinerators, and so there are also direct and indirect consequences for our health.
we have called for the ban on oxo-degradable plastics and microplastics which are voluntarily included in cosmetics, we have drawn attention to the toxic materials which must be eliminated from the production cycle, and we have called for the internationalisation of costs, that is, the producer must take responsibility for what happens to his products when they are placed on the market and then become waste that ends up in the seas.
i am referring to the strict use of microplastics and disposable materials, and in particular the target that all plastic produced should be recyclable by 2030. i come from a land, the south of italy, which has too often been turned into a dumping ground for the industrial waste of the productive north of italy and europe.
i also trained politically in the environmental struggles against landfills and incinerators.
for many years now, the committees have been proposing a zero waste model and a truly circular economy.
even today in the union - as commissioner katainen has just mentioned - 25 million tonnes of plastic waste is generated, of which only 30% is recycled.
in the meantime, because the aim of reducing plastic waste through prevention is central, and also because the packaging is a good result, which by 2030 will have to be made of reusable and recyclable plastic.
we also asked for a ban on the incineration of plastics in cement plants and incinerators, because they generate emissions which are harmful to the environment and toxic to human health, but unfortunately our amendments on this point were not adopted.
so if we really want to eliminate plastic waste, we have to refuse to accept buying plastic when we shop in our supermarkets.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ten rivers account for 93% of the plastic pollution on the planet: eight in asia, two in africa, zero in europe.
we must tackle the problem by taking action where we can make a significant impact, namely waste collection in asian and african countries.
replacing them with paper is certainly a welcome development for the producing countries of northern europe, who are also very keen to promote this directive, but it is not in the interests of the european citizens and the environment.
we must avoid being swayed by false media campaigns and fully apply existing legislation on waste, not resorting to shortcuts which have no decisive effect in solving the problem but are measures which only impact public opinion and not the environment.
parliament's aim is to support the commission towards a new sustainable plastics economy, combining economic development with the protection of the environment and human health.
today, there are still too many plastic products on the market that cannot be recycled or reused and that, at best, can only be disposed of in incinerators or landfills, while at worst they are lost in the marine and terrestrial environment, with serious damage to both biodiversity and economic activities such as fishing or tourism.
the other point on which our position is very clear is the need for immediate and urgent action to combat the other big problem: marine pollution from plastic.
we also wanted to emphasise that, on the basis of the important results achieved, similar projects should be encouraged throughout the european union and that the burden of managing recovered plastic waste should never fall on fishermen.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, plastic pollution is one of the most serious environmental emergencies of our time, which requires rapid and coordinated action.
we generate about 26 million tonnes of plastic waste in europe every year, of which less than 30% is collected for recycling.
the main challenge of the commission's plastics strategy is to produce and use plastics in a sustainable way, in order to reduce waste generation.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the environment-related measures, including the implementation of the union's policy on the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the environment.
diseases in both humans and animals should be addressed with particular regard to the food chain and the environment.
if we act now, we can seize the opportunity of this change and make european mobility sustainable, safe, smart and more accessible; european industry more competitive; and european jobs more secure.
first, sustainability, transport is a major contributor to eu greenhouse gas emissions, as well as air pollution.
we can achieve this goal through stricter emissions standards, better consumer information, multimodality, smarter road charging, urban mobility planning, research and innovation, and by smarter use of public procurement to accelerate the transition towards zero— and low-emission vehicles.
meanwhile, vehicles are becoming increasingly clean, connected and automated, and ultimately driverless and zero—emissions.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is on the move, europe is moving towards a new model of development: a low carbon economy.
the transport sector is currently 94% dependent on oil and is responsible for over 25% of greenhouse gas emissions.
in addition, passenger and freight transport activities in europe will increase by 60% and 40% respectively in 2050. the central point of the communication, which i share, is the respect of the paris agreement on climate change and the 2030 agenda for sustainable development of the united nations.
here 's the answer: promoting low- and zero-emission mobility, intermodality, shared mobility, the development of automated vehicles through the interconnections of transport infrastructure networks, digital energy networks, digital technologies that will allow the implementation of the fundamental polluter-pays principle, for example with a toll system based on the environmental performance of vehicles.
it is necessary to ensure that adequate resources, both european and national, are put into the field for cutting-edge projects, which are a fundamental part of a mobility strategy in step with technological development and the challenges of globalisation and climate change.
this means making important choices for public transport, for its implementation, but also choices to improve the quality of the air we breathe in urban areas, by facilitating sustainable, zero-emission mobility, and implementing public transport at the expense of private transport.
moreover, we cannot talk about transport of the future if it does not guarantee the goal of zero fatalities by 2030. last but not least, they must contribute to reducing air pollution and therefore co2 emissions.
the transport sector is currently the main cause of air pollution in urban areas and is responsible for more than 25% of greenhouse gas emissions in the european union.
the transformation of the transport sector will therefore have to be increasingly geared towards developing solutions that ensure environmental sustainability standards.
in a climate of only apparent democracy, hun sen's kleptocratic regime has censored the internet and gagged the press, dealing a severe blow to the last semblance of democracy with the farce of the recent elections.
thursdays: the gue/ngl group called for the debate on the question of animal welfare, the use of antimicrobial medicines and the environmental impact of industrial broiler farming to be closed with a resolution to be voted on at the october ii part-session.
our health care systems cannot afford this waste that only the drug companies benefit from.
the clinical vote must therefore be based on clear scientific evidence, which must be aimed at demonstrating that there is a real breakthrough for the health and quality of life of patients, so that prices can be renegotiated with the pharmaceutical companies, and on the other hand, they must be the same in each member state, so that all citizens of the union are guaranteed the same right to health which is a fundamental right of the citizen of the union, without waste of resources and without overlapping tasks which are unnecessary and counterproductive.
in the latter area, i have also been wondering for years how energy exchanges can be accounted for in a decentralised production model and i am very pleased that the commission has for the second year positively received my proposal for a pilot project to study the feasibility of blockchain technologies in peer-to-peer energy exchanges.
but another area where i would really like to see everyone involved is in investigating the potential use of dlt for environmental monitoring and thus the possibility for all citizens to participate in a distributed emission control system of all the plants that today load our air with particles and pollutants of various kinds, slaughtering our loved ones in a way that is now ubiquitous.
sustainable and equitable development is certainly also about digital technologies today, but the sooner we put them to use, the sooner we curb their potential.
the second tool is about the integrated investments themselves, promoting accessibility and digital connectivity, energy, education, small and medium—sized enterprises, migration, services, social exclusion.
we have now pilot actions already in place, improving rural services with ict and making villages more sustainable, contributing to the diversification of the rural economy, which builds on the cork 2.0 declaration on a better life for rural areas.
you mentioned the smart villages, and we in parliament are very interested in this experiment, because it is entirely possible that there are innovative activities in this area, which is the largest part of the territory, the one on which we also have a duty, in times of climate change, to intervene by creating a series of initiatives that prevent climate change from being devastating in these places, especially the mountains.
these are the choices we must make if we are to respond concretely to those citizens who live in areas with a significant economic impact, but who perhaps are not yet even reached by the internet, and i say this as the representative of an island which is the southern periphery of europe and which is experiencing the dual condition of being an island and having a rural area of considerable proportions, and then a strategic framework for the sustainable development of these areas is urgently needed, and for the verification of everything that is in the union's objectives themselves.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
to start with migration, it should be obvious to all of us that we can only find a sustainable solution to the challenge of migration if it is a comprehensive solution.
we can only solve this issue in a european way – and i believe by now every member state understands that this cannot be done just individually by member states – but we can only find a comprehensive and sustainable solution if it comprises all elements linked to migration.
they are valuable tools for consolidating a healthy business climate and for attracting even more european investment to your country.
apart from competition, there is chapter 27 – environment.
and worse still, the victims are not guaranteed any real judicial protection: human rights, the environment, the rights of indigenous peoples, the working conditions of men, women and children, all of these things are constantly being put on the back burner by the god of money.
voluntary instruments are not enough, the activities of companies, especially in developing countries, can lead to serious violations of human rights, not to mention the possible negative effects on the environment, for which there is often no provision for compensation for the affected populations.
if we are to achieve the 2030 sustainable development goals, corporations must also align themselves.
some of the multinationals that are humiliating work are the same ones that are opposed to the ecological transition and that are evading taxes by hundreds of billions of euros a year stealing our future.
every day, in our institutions, we work to combat violations of workers' rights, land grabbing, pollution and environmental damage, protection of the rights of communities; we are working to reduce disparities, to fight against corruption and against all forms of exploitation.
our choices will shape the future of road transport, which is called upon to play its part in combating climate change and implementing the paris agreement.
i would like to conclude by reminding you that in order to reap the social benefits of efficient vehicles, including cleaner air and increased employment opportunities in the green economy, we must preserve the balance we have found in the environment committee.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is right to aim at an ambitious plan for reducing co2 emissions from the transport sector, but such a plan must have realistic objectives and not result in increased costs for european businesses and citizens.
what is the environmental value of the electric car if part of the energy used to power it in europe itself is still produced by coal-fired power stations?
a strategy is needed which safeguards the principle of technological neutrality and keeps the way open to a right mix of technologies which can really contribute to the reduction of co2 emissions and to a calculation system which takes account not only of the co2 emitted by the vehicle but also of the overall life cycle balance of the vehicle.
we must discuss as politicians not our obsessions but how to transfer this, which is a categorical environmental imperative, to the possible industrial challenge we face.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is moving towards a new model of development, a low-carbon economy.
that's the challenge, while today the transport sector is still 94% dependent on oil and is responsible for over 25% of greenhouse gas emissions.
the aim of this regulation is to have cars on the road that pollute less and consume less fuel, to the benefit of the health and pockets of european citizens, as well as the environment.
but it is not enough to set ambitious new targets for reducing car emissions, it is important to ensure that the paper-based emissions certificate corresponds to the real one.
and so i agree with the article in the regulation which proposes the introduction of a test of emissions in real driving conditions on the road, to avoid new scandals like dieselgate.
the commission has also proposed that the whole life cycle of emissions from vehicles be analysed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our objectives are clear: 45% less co2 emissions by 2030, plus 40% of zero-emission or low-impact cars, to meet the paris targets, to protect our health, to make the european car industry more competitive.
without courage and ambition, europe will lose the global automotive challenge and we will have more pollution and less employment.
with the proposals voted by the committee on the environment, we shall have a regulation which brings together development, work and environmental quality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the transport sector is the only one which continues to increase its greenhouse gas emissions.
according to who, air pollution kills 7 million people every year, and 9 out of 10 people in the world breathe air with very high levels of pollutants.
the new regulation to reduce co2 emissions from light vehicles addresses the environmental and industrial issue, to reduce pollution through the transition to electric transport modes and to ensure the competitiveness of the european automotive industry.
we need a common strategic framework for sustainable vehicles, infrastructure, electricity grids, battery production, supply and recycling where economic incentives and employment incentives go hand in hand at national, union, regional and local level.
i would have liked to have thought about how to spend vat and how to reduce this waste.
i would like to know from you whether you really believe in a fiscal union and why, for example, in terms of energy costs, we are not competitive within the various member states, and therefore within the single market, unlike other realities.
i come from italy, where the cost of energy is very high and this does not allow us to be competitive and to have, by the way, enemies within the european union.
in this legislature progress has been made in the field of the environment and in a few other areas, but if we do not pay due attention to the construction of real welfare in times of crisis, we are deliberately deciding to create a europe at more speeds, not understanding that it is a mistake to leave someone behind.
ladies and gentlemen, we are all increasingly aware that economic growth must be to the benefit of all and must be socially sustainable.
the real challenge is to establish inclusive labour markets to make sure that people don’t fall through the social net and, at the same time, to ensure that national social security systems remain sustainable.
local administrators must be supported, as it is they who, by providing essential services to migrants, creating educational and employment opportunities, develop an environment conducive to their further integration.
we believe that, in order to find sustainable solutions to all pending questions, we need to continue our work on the basis of such a comprehensive approach.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
too often, a low price is hidden behind unfair competition, poor attention to sustainability, social inclusion and disability.
but not only that, to reduce the use of medicines and the considerable environmental impact of industrial broiler farming - and we have mentioned ammonia emissions are a huge problem - the choice to abandon the use of cages can play an important role.
we will continue to work on the enforcement of the directive, but at the same time – and that is why your remarks were so valuable – we need to work closer together to reduce the impact of industrial farming as far as possible, both for the welfare of the chickens and for the environment and human health.
i would also like to refer to the conclusions of the report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change, which is the body i believe is the most authoritative in speaking on these issues.
first, they say we have to halve co2 emissions by 2030; second, net emissions must be zero by 2050. thirdly, we must drastically reduce the energy demand of industry, transport and buildings.
if we don't do these things soon, it will be a climate catastrophe in the next 10 or 20 years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of biodiversity and the fight against climate change are among the priorities of european environmental policies.
most of the 2020 targets, however, will not be met, and the mobilization of climate finance, of $100 billion a year by 2020, is also proceeding at a very slow pace.
it is necessary to support the establishment of new funding instruments for biodiversity and to propose enhanced accountability tools, in particular for national biodiversity strategies and action plans, in order to improve governance and facilitate the implementation of the post-2020 objectives.
climate change, on the other hand, requires intensifying the eu's relations with local and regional authorities, strengthening cooperation between cities, strengthening sustainable development models and emission reduction plans in key sectors such as energy, industry, technology, agriculture and transport, for example through twinning programmes, the international urban cooperation programme, supporting platforms such as the covenant of mayors and building new forums for the exchange of best practice.
i think i can say, representing the sentiments of the colleagues who have worked with me on the committee on budgets - and i would like to thank, of course, also and above all the shadow rapporteurs who have worked with me - i think i can represent the sentiments of everyone in saying that we have presented a budget proposal which is both ambitious and sustainable.
sustainable because we are not asking the member states to make additional efforts than they already do in supporting the financial framework and in supporting the budget of our european union, and because we are trying to use all the resources at our disposal, we want to use all the resources at our disposal to give back to the european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i largely share the priorities identified by the rapporteur, starting with sustainable growth, the fight against climate change, action for small businesses and research, aid for africa to really help where there is a problem, namely immigration, and we must use resources, all available resources and, above all, the fight against poverty, the poverty of european citizens.
a very serious case of pollution by these substances has occurred in the veneto region: nearly 200,000 citizens now have blood levels of these substances hundreds of times higher than normal.
introduced in the late 1980s, it needs - after more than 20 years - to be revised to bring drinking water quality standards in line with the latest scientific evidence and to adapt the legislative framework to better respond to new challenges such as climate change and the transition to a circular economy.
that is why we in the envi committee did well to make the directive more ambitious, we did so in a sustainable and reasonable way.
the vote in the chamber in strasbourg will take us five important steps forward: taking measures that are beneficial for our oceans; take an important step towards curbing an unsustainable throwaway and disposable culture; support innovation and scientific research to create new jobs by developing environmentally sustainable production; strengthen extended producer responsibility in accordance with the 'polluter pays' principle; give our citizens more information; recycle more.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that we cannot vote no, that we must support this directive because it will in any case make it possible to reduce the production of plastic waste considerably.
the plastic pollution in the seas is 95 percent from asia and africa, and the problem is solved by acting there.
the economic crisis is enduring, you force us to adopt austerity policies, but nobody touches the french deficit or the german surplus, and your priority is to ban plastic sticks, balloons and plates under the pretext of saving the environment?
you don't have the slightest... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, reducing the impact of plastics on the environment and the seas is an absolute necessity in the light of the worrying data on this subject.
more courage on the part of some groups would have led to corrective measures and a better understanding of how to reconcile economic sustainability with environmental sustainability, both of which are shared goods and must be defended.
i agree with the aims of the proposal: the problem is there and it is obvious to everyone, but we must take a balanced approach to protecting the environment, the seas and the oceans, but also be careful to initiate a gradual and feasible economic transition, both for producers and for our citizens in their dual role as consumers and also as workers in the sector.
politics is measured by results, not the sneaky ads you've become accustomed to... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is still causing great damage.
italy is now the victim of environmental disasters on a cyclical basis and urgently needs a general plan for the prevention and safeguarding of the territory.
the direct and indirect funds provided by the european union to combat climate change cannot be enough.
the budget deficit/gdp ratio should be broken down by investment in the security of areas affected by the unforeseen climate change disasters.
climate change in sicily is even more evident than elsewhere and coldiretti, an organization of the agriculture sector, claims that this 2018 has been the hottest year since 1800, with 1.8 degrees above the average of september.
i was a little surprised, however, that compared with the reference you made to the social pillar and also to sustainability as a great prospect, you did not indicate in the slightest the educational and cultural aspect of it.
we need to unblock this situation, i am thinking of migration issues, i am thinking of the reform of the dublin regulation, but i am also thinking of the implementation of the european social pillar with a social fund, cohesion funds that are able to give answers to european children, so that everyone has the same opportunities, with the child guarantee, with innovative instruments to support work and lifelong learning, to align the union's action with the united nations' sustainable development goals.
we're gonna waste money without solving the unemployment problem.
the european union must be given sovereignty in areas where the states are no longer able to manage it on their own, and there are many such areas, from monetary policy to economic policy and the framework of social policies, to justice, defence and foreign policy, to security, which you care about very much, and then the single market, of course, the environment, protection against globalisation.
with tomorrow's vote we will add to european trade policy another element of sustainability, another brick to make our common home more worthy of the men and women who live in it, another effort to make globalisation a more equitable and humane process.
sustainable livestock production, with healthy animals cared for in a healthy environment, has always been a priority for european agriculture in the interests of 500 million consumers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of road tolls is particularly sensitive because of its implications for both the environment and the safety of infrastructure.
we must not forget that the purpose of the toll is to recover the costs of investments made and to support those for the maintenance, modernisation, innovation, sustainability and management of infrastructure.
we will support the objective of greater environmental protection and reduction of road congestion in future negotiations with the council.
we will fight to prevent tolls from being a source of wealth for private individuals, and therefore for dealers, who pursue the logic of profit alone, forgetting the importance of road user safety and the environment, leading to the paradox of increasing costs in the absence of concrete benefits for citizens.
without effective and efficient transport there is no possibility of real development and sustainable development, and let us not forget that development, and therefore transport, is not only sustainable if it respects the rules of environmental protection, which we want to be respected, but is also sustainable if it is economically and over time.
it is also true that there are many other elements which have a positive impact on respect for and protection of the environment, but they must not be added to this criterion of distance, which is more than sufficient.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the commissioner, and also the rapporteur, for the excellent proposal, which i of course support, because i think that the emphasis is really on pollution, on traffic congestion, on all the elements which unfortunately can and do affect people's health, if not even their death.
that is why we need a sustainable transport policy.
the euro-vignette, which is designed to generate resources and protect the environment, must not be turned into a mere tax revenue for the countries of central europe to the detriment of the exporting countries on the periphery of the european union.
the vote will take place on thursday 25 october 2018.
the agenda includes the report by mr andrzej grzyb, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/33/ec on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient vehicles in road transport (com (2017) 0653 - c8-0393/2017 - 2017/0291 (cod)) (a8-0321/2018).
despite the inclusion of sub-targets for zero-emission vehicles, the amended directive will not help to bridge the gap between europe and china, where there are already 380 000 electric buses on the road today, compared to the few thousand in europe, and will therefore have a limited role in combating the air pollution that affects our cities.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, international trade is not only a key factor in economic development and cooperation between countries, but also has a fundamental influence on peace, sustainable growth, employment, the eradication of poverty and human rights.
i therefore call on the commission to continue to develop safe methods to take full account of these dimensions, including the social and environmental standards applicable in exporting countries.
there is no denying that these extreme weather events are the consequences of the larger problem of climate change.
the cop 24 meeting in katowice, poland, in december offers us the opportunity to reaffirm europe's leadership in the fight against greenhouse gases and harmful emissions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, hundreds of petitions by european citizens have helped to update the all-important directive on the promotion of renewable energy and i, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on petitions, am honoured to have been able to speak for them.
this new directive strictly prohibits this practice, precisely to avoid that those who intend to invest in renewable energies today have to fear that their investment may be jeopardized precisely by retroactive rules that compromise the economic stability of the projects.
the committee on petitions was a little more ambitious, however, with regard to the eu renewable energy target.
we were asking for 35%, and yet the 32% achieved in the final agreement is a very good step forward compared to the european commission's initial proposal, especially as it is protected by an upward revision to 2023. europe is finally showing itself to be close to its citizens when it writes rules like this on renewable energy, because promoting the use and self-consumption of renewable energy means increasing the degree of democracy in our society, it means taking concrete action to protect the planet from global warming, it means creating jobs in the green economy, it means tackling the problem of energy poverty which still affects 50 million people throughout the european union today, and it means above all working concretely to try to leave a future for future generations, because unfortunately up to now this europe has been going in the opposite direction.
so we're moving forward with the energy revolution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we started this process by revising european energy legislation at the beginning of the legislature.
i dreamed that the rights of producers and consumers of renewable energy would finally be guaranteed, that europe would have the european right to set up energy communities.
this should be the europe of the future, we are writing it here, because it is finally focusing on something real: energy, matter, the circular economy.
the european union was born as the coal and steel community and we are in a way going back to the beginning, focusing on energy, no longer on coal but on a new form of energy and a new form of material management that is no longer that of the mere production of steel and manufactured goods.
so i dream of a sovereign european union, not broken up into individual states, where everyone wants to do what they want, because if we are to tackle climate change and resource depletion we must build a strong europe.
it means that we must project ourselves towards a different europe to combat climate change and resource depletion, and together we can do it.
however, the european energy market is still not able to provide fair access, high and uniform standards of consumer protection, adequate levels of cooperation and interconnection.
energy does not flow freely everywhere and at all times, and national precautions on the climate roadmap persist, although they differ from state to state.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of an energy union based on an ambitious climate policy is to provide european consumers with secure, sustainable, competitive and affordable energy.
the new energy union governance regulation will enable europe to become a world leader in renewable energy, putting energy efficiency first and offering fair treatment to consumers.
the targets of 32% renewable energy in the eu's energy mix and 32.5% energy savings by 2030 will have to be achieved through coordinated action at european, macro-regional, regional, national and local levels.
the ultimate goal of a fully functional and resilient energy union is to transform the european union into a leading region for innovation, investment, growth and a credible example of pursuing high ambition in climate change mitigation policy.
all this sends the wrong message to our partners around the mediterranean – in particular, after all the efforts deployed into garnering their support for serious actions in favour of sustainable fisheries in both the medfish4ever declaration and the gfcm.
as a shadow rapporteur, i shared the multiannual plan for the adriatic sea as a tool for the management of marine biological resources, with the aim of restoring stocks and restoring the sustainability of the sector.
i have tabled amendments to the biomass escapement strategy which i believe could be a valid compromise to protect sufficient biomass to ensure the sustainability and reproduction of stocks, but also flexibility in the event of abundant harvests.
the concept of maximum sustainable yield has disappeared and above all it does not listen to the concerns of science or rather chooses which science to listen to.
the objective of this plan is to achieve and maintain the maximum sustainable yield for the stocks concerned, to make the fisheries sector sustainable and to provide an effective management framework.
the proposal voted on in the committee on fisheries is based on the management of fishing effort and represents the real need for the sector to be biologically, economically and socially sustainable.
eu support should help regions become more resilient and more sustainable.
you know very well that under the current programming period, almost eur 8 billion have been channelled to the climate change adaptation and risk prevention.
it is clear that, in the face of massive climate change, if we want to limit the damage, we must increase prevention interventions and that cohesion policy must be the instrument to support them in addition to the solidarity fund.
the prevention of disasters is one of the central axes of regional development, and it is clear that cohesion must become the primary source of funding for the prevention and fight against climate change, if we consider that, according to ispra data, within a century the increase in average temperature in italy could even exceed two degrees.
so, commissioner, we really need the european union's intervention now, because the 114 billion for climate change measures, which is a discount on our budget, is no longer needed.
the first mistake we made was when we decided to transmit the energy through the air through wires and poles.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's environmental policy is not disrupted by the floods.
this is why education must be at the heart of efforts to achieve the 2030 agenda, simply because it is a prelude to achieving the other sustainable development goals.
the need to help in this area in the path towards a low-carbon future for europe is indisputable.
if we want a europe that survives the present or a europe that looks to the future, a europe that is capable of growth, that is capable of giving the answers that citizens expect on work, on unemployment, on young people, on research, on new transport, on social policies, on policies to combat climate change.
to ask for money and to ask for funding from those who do not pay taxes today, that is, the digital multinationals, the multinationals that have their headquarters in tax havens, those who produce great pollution, those who impose taxes on large financial transactions.
we are of course in favour of reinstating the funds for the common agricultural policy and also for social policies, but this must be done by cutting back on administrative waste and programmes which are considered inefficient, such as the funds allocated to turkey.
it is certainly not the own resources, as some would have us believe, because we obviously support the need for and the purpose of them, especially if we really succeed in tackling avoidance, pollution and speculation, but it is also true that the european court of auditors has expressed doubts about their timely preparation for the next multiannual budget and therefore we cannot support a proposal which more or less veiledly calls for greater contributions from italian citizens to the european budget.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources is a subject which is close to our hearts and should be important to all members of parliament and to the commission.
the state incentives for renewable energy production remain optional.
another negative aspect is the push towards the use of wood as a renewable fuel, with no limit on the use of wood from the forest.
we risk a race to deforestation, an increase in particulate pollution, with a consequent negative impact on the environment and the climate.
but above all, we have achieved a historic victory, we have recognised the right and allowed citizens to become prosumers - producers and consumers - of renewable energy, individually or collectively, by putting the unconsumed energy into the grid and obtaining a market share at least equal to that of the market, free of charges and taxes until 2026. households and communities can become independent of large corporations, and the renewable energy produced can accelerate a real transition process.
we need more money in africa to combat climate change ... (applause)... against terrorism, against poverty, in favour of growth.
i've heard about immigration, i've heard about the environment, i've heard about the military and common defense.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the european union is not able to meet its own energy needs.
in addition to ambitious but achievable targets of 20% emission reductions by 2025 and 35% by 2030, we have introduced a road compliance test to provide real driving emissions and fuel consumption data that can be used by third parties for independent verification testing.
the commission is also asked to provide a methodology for assessing the emissions of heavy-duty vehicles throughout their life cycle, from design to scrapping.
the commission will also have to come forward with a proposal for reducing emissions from commercial vehicles, such as refuse collection trucks.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the alarm bells of the latest ipcc report and the european environment agency's gas emissions projections for 2017 have sounded with a shattering force a message that should now be clear to all: we're now in the red badge phase for climate.
everyone has a role to play, especially the transport sector, which has increased its emissions the most over the years.
vehicles such as trucks, trailers, buses and coaches generate over 6% of total greenhouse gas emissions in the union and 25% of road transport.
we must therefore do our best as co-legislators to protect the climate by setting meaningful reduction targets.
moreover, pushing the accelerator to stimulate the electrification of new heavy-duty vehicles will also serve to protect the health of europeans and strengthen the energy security of the entire continent.
it will help us say goodbye to that toxic technology called diesel, which powers almost all of today's heavy-duty vehicles, generating staggering environmental and health costs.
according to the available data and considering only the pollution from nitrogen oxides and particulate matter released during its normal life cycle of 12 years, a single diesel bus results in a cost to the community of eur 19 000. on the other hand, the 3 200 zero-emission city buses that will be on our roads next year, in addition to not polluting the air in our cities, will allow us to remove almost 600,000 barrels of oil from the market annually, saving over 40 million dollars.
the text we have been working on in the committee on the environment is intended to strengthen and support this trend.
it is right to aim at an ambitious plan for a reduction in co2 emissions from this sector, but such a plan must have realistic targets, both from a technological point of view and in terms of sustainability of production costs.
as i said in relation to emissions from cars and light commercial vehicles, the proposal does not include a system which recognises the role of renewable fuels.
it is therefore essential that the contribution and benefits of such funds to the decarbonisation objectives be recognised by introducing a calculation methodology that recognises the renewable component of the network at european level.
finally, the penalties for non-compliance provided for by the commission appear to be based on a comparison of co2 emissions of light commercial vehicles with those of trucks in grams of co2 per kilometre, which is misleading and paradoxically ends up discouraging fully loaded journeys, i.e.
this means we have to work together on our most pressing common challenges – trade, climate change, terrorism, migration and unemployment.
it will also be important in future negotiations with the council to strike the right balance between passenger rights on the one hand and cost sustainability on the other.
finally, giving passengers more rights means encouraging them to use public transport which is cleaner than private cars and thus protects the environment.
the protection of users is necessary in a new european regulatory framework to increase the flexibility of the sector and its attractiveness compared to other modes of transport which have a more negative impact on the environment.
the term refers to chemical substances that persist in the environment, that bio-accumulate through the food chain and that are highly toxic to human health and the environment.
let me underline that these substances can be transported over thousands of miles in the environment from where they were released.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in all its aspects.
so, to make ourselves clear, we need to make clear that these are toxic chemicals that are dangerous on a global scale, because they travel very long distances in the atmosphere, persist in the environment for many years, and accumulate in ecosystems, thus posing serious risks to human health and the environment.
that is why the international convention obliges us to be very strict in the treatment of these substances, very strict also when it comes to managing their presence in the waste and materials that are treated for recycling.
i would therefore like to make it clear that we must prevent these products from being exported and treated outside europe according to environmental standards which are not ours and then being returned to europe through the window.
madam president, i must admit that i have been doing a lot of research on this subject recently and i must say that i am appalled at the way in which persistent organic pollutants are increasingly filling our environment and becoming a fatal threat to us.
a fatal threat to our health, a fatal threat to the environment.
first, the possible abandonment of the treaty by the us administration would further damage us-russian relations, increasing the climate of cold war not only between these two powers but also with china.
iran has been subject to the most comprehensive monitoring and surveillance regime in the world by the international atomic energy agency, which has repeatedly verified iran's compliance with its obligations under the mou.
it is also the sanctions that affect the people and not the regime, and the european union will do well to defend the agreement, not only through instruments that guarantee the possibility for european companies to trade with iran and thus follow up on the agreement that otherwise risks falling, but also if necessary by providing for european counter-sanctions for american companies and by starting to use the euro for our energy bill.
the commission analysed very thoroughly the legal competences of the eu in this field of a combination of work and family duties, and as you mentioned here the family matters fall under the competence of the member states, while gender equality is the competence of the eu, and also we have a very strong economical case because we see in all the member states, without any exception, that the situation is not sustainable, that we cannot continue like that, that we have to enable women who want to work to work and to share also the family duties.
the following is the text of the order of business of the meeting of the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection of the european parliament and of the council on the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products, amending regulation (ec) no 1235/2008 (oj l 347, 20.12.2013, p.
author.
in the southeast asian country, if you express a contrary opinion, especially on human rights or environmental rights, you end up in a cell, and there you start to be abused, beaten, electrocuted, given injections of substances.
his denunciation of the environmental disaster caused by the taiwanese company formosa has cost him dearly: the sentence was 14 years in prison.
the following amendments were tabled: wednesdayfollowing the debate on the future of europe, the order of the first two items is amended as follows: we will begin at 5.30 p.m. with the commission statement on the eu's long-term strategy for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the paris agreement, followed by the commission statement on the single market package.
we believe deeply in europe and we want to remain in europe, but on sustainable and substantial terms, changed for our citizens.
so, clearly you've hit the target: you have set a path for this europe to continue to be a leader on the international stage and to lead the fight against climate change.
as you all know, we have had several adverse events on the european continent this year - events triggered by climate change - that have also led to the deaths of hundreds of people.
we must protect our environment, on the one hand, and of course reduce the increase in temperature; but on the other hand, we have to be very careful about what the economic system is, because we don't have to go too far where we can't go.
i believe that the strategy you have outlined is a balanced strategy that can achieve the 2050 targets but that can certainly help the growth of a green and sustainable economy.
it's an important signal and it is if it is the first signatory of paris to give itself a clear goal for a net-zero emissions economy by 2050. in fact, the effects of climate instability, long predicted by science, are now a daily chronicle, delineating what is our new everyday life.
to overcome these challenges, we need strongly expansionary economic policies and the overcoming of austerity, finally paying attention to the balance of natural capital and not just financial balances that have lost sight of what is the thermodynamic balance, which regulates the economy and our existence on earth, thus paying attention to what is the so-called ecological spread.
at the same time, it is ineffective to think about leadership in the fight against climate change without considering the effect of trade; the products are not subject to a carbon analysis emitted by the relocation of the production that we import: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation in the community.
we owe a debt to some countries from which we have drawn resources, and it is a debt which we can repay by providing them with the knowledge and technology needed to combat climate change.
furthermore, we are discussing how women can be included in a more systematic way in trade, and we need to discuss, i fully agree with you, how the wto can play a greater role in living up to the sustainable development goals.
this agreement offers kosovo an opportunity for sustainable progress and rapprochement with the european union.
we both agree that this is key for their respective european paths and essential for sustainable regional stability.
the council will continue to monitor closely kosovo's engagement towards visible and sustainable progress here so that serbia and kosovo can continue on their respective european paths.
we underline progress in certain areas, such as on the investment climate.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we will never allow eu citizens to fall victim to the same disgraceful hostile—environment policies that saw members of the windrush generation wrongly deported.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the only programme specifically devoted to the environment and climate action, life remains the european union's main financial instrument for achieving environmental objectives.
life plays a key role in the conservation of ecosystems, especially in relation to the birds and habitats directives and through the management of natura 2000. biodiversity and healthy ecosystems are essential elements for growth, employment and the economy.
the decarbonisation target of the paris agreement requires a rapid shift to a clean, low-emission energy strategy.
a considerable share of the increase for the life programme was therefore allocated to the clean energy transition sub-programme.
in order to avoid overlaps with other programmes, it should be emphasised that life expenditure should only be used to promote the development and dissemination of projects on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
i believe it is essential to recognise the importance of integrated projects as catalysts for the implementation of environmental or climate plans and strategies at regional, national or multi-regional level.
among the novelties of the life programme, i welcome the introduction of the sub-programme 'circular economy and quality of life' to support the other aspects of union environment policy, in particular the transition to a circular economy, the sound and efficient management of natural resources and the promotion of good environmental governance.
these projects have helped, for example, to introduce european citizens to the natura 2000 network and to protect biodiversity, which is still in a continuous and dangerous decline in europe today.
these projects have also helped to reduce environmental pollution and combat climate change.
in the next seven years 2021-2027, life will continue to support innovative actions to protect the environment and climate, actions to be replicated on a large scale, to facilitate the transition to a climate resilient society, based on the circular economy and renewable energies, the very society that we must try to defend today in katowice, poland, during cop 24. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
finally, i agree with the choice to evaluate projects mainly on the basis of quality criteria and to allocate more resources to the sub-programmes 'nature and biodiversity' and 'circular economy and quality of life'.
i hope that the epp amendment which has been tabled will not pass, because i think and believe that it opens the door to further damage to biodiversity, in particular to large carnivores, because we know very well what management of carnivores and large carnivores, i.e.
i am also pleased that, in addition to the carcinogens originally included in the proposal, limit values have also been included for diesel exhaust emissions and that a formal commitment has been made to assess the inclusion of reprotoxic substances by the first quarter of 2019. i therefore warmly thank mr rolin, the rapporteur, and the other colleagues with whom we have been working on the revision of this directive for over a year now, and i hope that the third and final part will also be kept in line with the same balance and the same ambition as has been shown so far.
for this reason i welcome the proactive spirit shown by the commission and the european parliament in amending the regulations on the transparency and sustainability of the risk assessment process in the food chain.
it is absolutely urgent that europe adopt a shared educational strategy to prepare students but also adults, in the logic of lifelong learning for the new digital environment.
in the meantime, we are faced with an agenda which sums up, at the end of the european year of cultural heritage, and thus, lending a hand to the legacy of the year, sums up the three or four main lines on which european cultural policy will have to move: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
third, the debt sustainability approach will ensure that taxpayers in creditor and beneficiary countries do not have to shoulder a public debt that is assessed to be unsustainable in the context adjustment programmes.
we also see reasonable steps to promote the existing framework of the debt sustainability in the euro area.
i have spoken on several occasions about a window of opportunity to reform the red zone, but i have to say that this window is closing little by little and that we have no time to waste.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wish to say that unfortunately, at dawn this morning, rome woke up in a black cloud due to a fire that broke out in a waste treatment plant.
this is something that we are very concerned about, because it has to do with the health of the citizens, it has to do with the health of the environment.
as a precaution, we are asking all citizens to remain in their homes, to keep children out of the yards and schools, but you understand that, despite the fact that the control booth was immediately activated with the civil protection and fire brigades, we would also like to ask europe, including commissioner vella, to ensure that not only this emergency situation is respected but also the whole waste disposal cycle, that this is done regularly and with absolute protection of health and the environment.
but an agreement, to be good, must also be sustainable, and this agreement is: the agreement commits the parties to implement the paris agreement, ratify the conventions of the international labour organisation and protect forests and animal welfare.
the current security environment in the union has never been more complex, unstable and unpredictable since the cold war, with inter-state conflicts, cyber attacks, terrorism, natural disasters and hybrid wars.
i simply want to say that i believe that the budget we are voting on tomorrow and presenting to the citizens of europe can be a source of pride for this parliament, because it restores all the answers and priorities we had identified, both on research and on young people, on the environment, on combating climate change, on migration and on a proper migration phase, to the priorities that parliament had set itself in march of this year and then in july.
240 million euros for erasmus+ means an extra 130,000 girls and boys who will be able to study in europe next year, and that's what makes me most proud 126 million euros for climate change; eur 150 million to work on the big issue of migration: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
these choices appear schizophrenic in relation to the climate and energy objectives that the union itself has set for 2030 and 2050 and irresponsible in the face of the gravity of the latest ipcc climate data, a real slap in the face to future generations, towards whom we, the political decision-makers of today, have an enormous responsibility.
on the digital side, while we strongly share the need for a strengthening of europe's infrastructure, i would also say that we should listen to the growing number of researchers and doctors worldwide who are warning us, with ever-increasing force, about the potential risks to human health and the environment from widespread, prolonged, continuous and combined exposure to and coverage of several types of electromagnetic waves, some of which we know little or nothing about.
the contributions that our group has made have been somewhat shaped by the vision of sustainable equality.
we know how urgent it is to reduce emissions to avoid climate disaster, and i quote the latest ipcc report, but also, of course, the daily weather reports.
it is not just the climate, but also the need to achieve the so-called ecological balance.
we know that the human race consumes, in just seven months, the renewable resources that nature is able to regenerate, and not always, in a whole year.
if we compare the earth to an atm, from august to december 31, mankind withdraws money from its bank accounts, creating an ecological debt that we will leave to our children and grandchildren.
the ecological balance is infinitely more important than the balance of the financial balance.
the transition to a circular economy development model is therefore necessary to achieve a balanced ecological balance, and the transition to a renewable energy society is necessary to avoid climate breakdown.
the union and the member states must be able to spend to finance the green transition, which will create jobs through the circular economy and renewable energy.
the decarbonised european economy needs above all a border carbon tax to avoid unfair competition from companies abroad, this sort of social and climate dumping.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we would all have liked to have had this debate in a different political climate.
the double bite caused by the negative effects of globalisation on the one hand and the increasingly powerful disruptions caused by climate change on the other is proving to be unsustainable.
i believe that we can respond to the climate challenge by integrating the social dimension, to protect all citizens, but in particular the most vulnerable, who are also the most affected by globalisation, who have suffered the most over time from pollution and the difficulties caused by the environmental crisis and who today rightly give us an account of their anger and frustration.
we cannot put the burden of the ecological transition on the shoulders of the weakest.
we must tackle the debate and our programme, which the commissioner has outlined, by always being able to assess together the environmental, economic and social aspects.
if we succeed in doing this, and it is our duty to future generations, i believe we will be able to implement fair policies, and that is why we, as socialists and democrats, have presented to the citizens with strength and conviction a model, the result of years of work, which is of equity that i would call sustainable, and will be the basis of all our action at european level, because neither the citizens nor the planet can wait any longer.
it is an indispensable element of a business-friendly environment which enables prosperity and jobs in the internal market.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and i would like to say to the commissioner that we in the juri committee have been able to have a discussion which we consider to be important and effective, thanks to a political climate of mutual respect, of listening and of a convinced search for the necessary points of mediation, of compromise, as we say in our language.
the work of this committee in 2017 has recorded some very valuable positions on issues reported through the many petitions by thousands of european citizens: i am thinking of the fight against precariousness, the issue of protecting the welfare of children, the promotion of renewable energy and also the many cases in which the protection of the environment and human health was at stake.
the vote will take place on thursday 13 december 2018 at 12.00.
the agenda includes the report by massimiliano salini, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the union space programme and the european union space agency and repealing regulations (eu) no 912/2010, (eu) no 1285/2013 and (eu) no 377/2014 and decision no 541/2014/eu (com ((2018) 0447 - c8-0258/2018 - 2018/0236 ((cod)) (a8-0405/2018).
in summary, a space programme with these characteristics would have four major advantages for the european union: competitiveness, first of all, sustainability, autonomy - why not?
but let's think about the issue of sustainability, the issue of using drones to improve postal services, the issue of playing the environmental sustainability game through more careful and articulated management of traffic, especially road traffic.
it is important to recognise the weight that space data can have in areas such as agriculture, the environment, civil protection, cultural heritage and infrastructure, to name just a few.
from a pollution and resource perspective, we have struggled to get a commitment to use the entire budget to combat climate change, to increase energy efficiency and to facilitate local self-production and consumption initiatives.