(initial words inaudible) partners in latin america, our relations are based on political dialogue, trade cooperation, joint efforts to achieve sustainable development and peace-building, which the eu has supported since the very beginning.
in all fairness and in keeping with our principles, we cannot enter the european market with goods and services produced without respect for the environment.
the european union must require that trade agreements with third countries include commitments to respect human rights, to implement production standards and to contribute to global objectives such as climate change mitigation.
so yes, there were good things in the estonian presidency, for example on the energy efficiency of buildings directive, the waste management rules.
i also call on member states to develop new innovative and more personalised approaches that are both high quality and sustainable and that improve the chances of young women returning to the labour market or to education, for example through the provision of childcare and adult care services.
the text welcomes the commission’s communication on accelerating clean energy innovation.
this proposal lays out a strategy using a market-based approach, which would help to accelerate private investment to boost clean energy innovation.
i am very hopeful that in this way we can ensure a better funding of energy science and technology, and create a dynamic business environment for energy innovations.
the environment will benefit from those innovations and people will live in a cleaner environment as well.
the state of haiti urgently needs a sustainable legal framework and strong enforcement of these norms in order to restore the socio-economic situation of the country, prevent the trafficking of children and slavery, riots, unrest, increased crime and a humanitarian crisis.
i would stress that it is of particular importance for haiti to develop international cooperation in the field of human rights in order to prevent child slavery as soon as possible, to enable victims to be rehabilitated, to restore their emotional and psychological state and to guarantee their sustainable development.
women's work in rural areas is very often paid less than men's work and is not even officially recognised, so i really call for the empowerment of rural women to move from the informal to the formal economy and to recognise that rural women work in a variety of fields and are more likely to drive change by creating sustainable and ecological agriculture.
it would also help to respond adequately and timely to current challenges such as the ongoing democratisation processes in the region, fighting terrorism and extremism, as well as environmental issues.
in general, over the past years the geo-political environment has changed significantly in the region.
the protection and proper enforcement of human rights is the duty of every state and the basis for sustainable development.
the cold war was the environment that putin was raised in.
i have repeatedly stressed that the essential duty and function of the state is to ensure the rights of its citizens and residents in an appropriate and effective manner and to create an environment conducive to the prosperity and development of society.
eu citizens see it as a source of a healthy lifestyle and sustainability.
that is why member states have to create and maintain a safe and secure environment for journalists.
finally, we have legislation requiring the inclusion of social and environmental standards in the calculation of anti-dumping duties.
it is no secret that some third countries may offer cheaper products simply because they pay fair wages and pollute our common home the earth with their waste products.
it is not just the environment or workers in third countries who do not receive a fair wage that suffer, but we europeans too, both because of the deterioration of the environment, including climate change, and because of the increasingly declining european industry and the failure of agriculture to recover from the permanent crisis.
mr president, in the past few years the trade environment in the world has changed dramatically.
the bad thing is that you have to show that the circular economy, the reduction of waste, the recycling of raw materials can be beneficial.
it's great that europe adopted a waste documentation package a few years ago.
it is great that we are looking for ways of using waste and it is great that in the report by my colleague, mr davos, there is an increasing emphasis on making as many actors as possible part of the circular economy.
the new agreement provides a better legal framework for the revival of political dialogue and the expansion of economic cooperation, as well as cooperation in areas such as energy, transport, infrastructure and the environment.
technology is the only possible way to meet the needs of europe and its multilingual environment.
however, i also share the concerns expressed in the report that president trump’s administration has led to some set-backs in very important fields of cooperation, such as trade, climate change or the united nations.
having said this, despite developing and deepening the partnership further wherever possible, the european union should also be prepared to build its strategic powers and, if necessary, lead by example when it comes to such issues as human rights or global warming.
mr president, the recent eu-china summit has witnessed the fact that both parties are stepping up their cooperation in many fields, including security, defence, anti-terrorism and climate change.
mr president, i am pleased that the european institutions have started to work in a targeted way to tackle plastic pollution.
even if recycled, the continuous circulation of toxic plastics will pose no less of a risk to the environment and human health.
in preparing the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development on reducing the environmental impact of single-use plastic products, i proposed the use of the concept of a circular non-toxic economy.
we need clear common european rules to achieve a sustainable and irreversible solution, and to stop our citizens being treated as second-class citizens.
the importance of these sites for a balanced and sustainable territorial development of europe is therefore indisputable.
the specific nature of these areas and their inhabitants means that they face major challenges in terms of social and economic development, climate change and demography, and therefore the european union's policy instruments must take account of a specific approach to these regions.
i would like to ask you very briefly about energy independence.
i am from lithuania and together with my other colleagues from the baltic states and other countries, we have produced quite a number of different documents over the past nine years which would, as it were, define our european union's energy independence from third countries, including russia.
so energy independence is not about how many documents we create, it's about what capacity we have.
mr president, parliament today has pushed further on the commission’s proposal to reduce co2 emissions from new cars in the eu market by at least 40% by 2030. i am really happy with the political will and ambition shown by parliament in this regard.
i fully support the aim of the proposal to help member states to reach the eu climate commitments under the paris agreement for the transport sector by incentivising the best use in production of new technologies such as electric vehicles.
lastly, the decision to reduce environmental pollution will also significantly reduce the eu’s geopolitical dependence on transport fuel imports, and it carries a very clear geopolitical message.
it is an important tool to help address public policy issues such as reducing social exclusion, creating jobs, improving environmental sustainability the effective performance of public procurement must be ensured throughout the eu.
is procurement, where the only criterion is the lowest price, really economically stimulating, reducing social exclusion, environmentally sustainable and fostering innovation?
i agree that the european parliament should, at least in the form of a resolution, call on the member states to see public procurement as an opportunity to promote a sustainable, socially responsible economy, to open up avenues for innovation, and to enable smes to grow and strengthen in a competitive environment.
it is really important to take into account the whole life cycle of products, environmental requirements, social aspects.
urgency and ambition are indeed necessary because we are facing a huge environmental challenge.
they enter the food chain, harm the environment and pose a threat to human health.
thankfully, although these quantities of plastic and their impact on the marine environment are shocking, just 10 single-use items, along with abandoned and lost fishing gear, represent a great majority of the source of the problem and that is about 70% in all.
the directive also proposes obligations for producers of tobacco product filters, drink bottles, crisp packets, wet wipes, drink cups and lids, food containers, balloons and very lightweight carrier bags to help cover the costs of waste management and clean-up.
here, producers will be required to cover the costs of fishing-gear-related waste collection from port reception facilities, its transport and treatment.
we need a strong legal basis for action to reduce plastic pollution.
as the rapporteur responsible for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development, i would like to emphasise that in order to ensure a significant reduction in the use of plastics, we must also pay greater attention to plastic pollution in agriculture, even if this pollution has an indirect impact on the aquatic environment.
the proposal aims to adjust the directive so we can better address new challenges such as climate change and adapt the rules to the new scientific environment and circular economy.
there is a lot of talk in europe about the need to move to clean energy.
this would oblige the eu to find ways to determine how a breach of social or environmental standards can be transformed into economic compensation and this narrows down the scope of the tsd chapter.
for the verts/ale group climate change is increasing the frequency of extreme natural events.
mr president, in this complex global security environment, it is undeniable that sometimes weapons and other military machinery might also end up in conflict zones, contributing to grave human rights violations.
it is essential to ensure european competitiveness and progressive, inclusive and sustainable growth.
the stabilisation process should include the establishment of a sustainable legal framework and the effective implementation of that framework.
an independent judiciary should be established, strong protection for children and women, including the prevention of violence, an enabling environment for the dissemination of knowledge and information, and access to essential health services and facilities should be provided.