the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of energy from renewable sources, energy efficiency and governance.
anyone who's been involved with paris, with climate change, with modelling the knowledge, knows that 27 percent renewable, 30 percent efficiency will mean that in the next decade, europe will be blowing so much co2 emissions into the atmosphere that we would then have to be zero by 2030 to 2040 to stay in our carbon budget, which is impossible.
paris also says: every report must actually go more towards climate protection, in english we say ratcheting up also this is not provided for in the current eu legislation.
one last word: energy poverty.
we have now succeeded - and i thank the liberal shadow rapporteur and the epp rapporteur - in having for the first time a binding text whereby governments which have energy poverty at home must now also take measures to combat it in their national plans.
that would mean that if germany, france and another third-largest country were to do a little bit more renewable than the weak target, then the european efficiency target would fall by 3 or 4%.
the commission is not ambition and realism ambition must mean on wednesday: at least 35% renewable, at least 35% energy efficiency, without the mitigations proposed by mr pieper, that if we do more than ict, less efficiency would be needed, or with more renewables, less efficiency, and a strong article 7. perhaps we should also appeal to the ppe, which has already worked well with renewables, to the efficiency we can achieve.
it is this alliance between you as the commission - which is also prepared to say: our proposal was good, but it can be even better - and us as the european parliament: if we manage on wednesday to have an ambitious and realistic position, then i am very optimistic that we will be able to negotiate this text overall, with the help of a number of progressive member states - germany, france, sweden, luxembourg, portugal, ireland - so that we can send mr cañete to krakow at some point at the end of the year with good news, namely that europe is continuing to work properly on climate protection.
logically, we should do everything we can to achieve the purpose of the sustainable development goals.
there is no such thing as achieving the sustainable development goals.
yes, the european union should increase its initiatives to ensure that the sustainable development goals are accompanied by a real obligation to achieve results.
first, at the level of global governance, by trying to convince its g7 and g20 partners, as well as its partners at the wto, that environmental and social standards are not only indispensable, but above all in the interest of all countries and all the citizens of those countries.
dear president, dear pavel, on behalf of the co-rapporteur, michèle rivasi, and myself, i would like to request a referral of the matter back to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on industry, research and energy for interinstitutional negotiations in accordance with rule 59, paragraph 4, subparagraph 4 of the rules of procedure.
now that we have learned our lesson, we cannot waste any more time, and now that there is no crisis on the table at this moment, let us make the right decisions to prevent any new crisis from coming.
i have a president juncker, who says: 'europe is the leader in green technologies and renewable energy'.
and then i have a chinese president who says, "i am the leader of green technology, electric cars, renewable energy".
we have been facing unprecedented levels of crisis world-wide, from conflicts to natural and climate-related disasters, health epidemics, insecurity and massive displacement and migration.
the current multitude of programmes does not facilitate the necessary multi-dimensional approach to poverty eradication and sustainable development.
as highlighted in parliament’s report, the development of plant protein production in the european union will not only benefit farmers and producers of animal feed and provide food for consumers, but will also contribute to a wide range of environmental and climatic benefits, such as the ability to fix nitrogen from the atmosphere.
the commission’s eu protein plan will aim to develop a viable and sustainable domestic protein supply mindful of the challenges we face.
research and innovation in plant proteins with respect to yield improvements and better adaptability to eu conditions; the agronomic and environmental benefits of protein crops; the development of different supply and value chains for eu plant proteins and the market potential for eu plant proteins in different market segments.
madam president, i would first like to thank the committee on development for entrusting me with the report on the debt sustainability of developing countries.
this situation is of concern to us because it is a question of the means that can be used to achieve the sustainable development goals.
all borrowing must meet the criteria of relevance, efficiency and sustainability.
finally, the sustainability criterion applies for obvious reasons: borrowing is not done to finance the short term but to invest in the future, in the medium and long term.
finally, and i should have started there, let us emphasize that taxation in the borrowing countries is the first condition for ensuring sustainable financing.
he was secretary of state in my government and suffered a heart attack while he was presenting the most important text of his legislature, which was the protection of the environment.
we have agreed to work together on issues like migration, the g5 sahel, external borders, and in particular on climate change and pushing for this 55 % co2 emissions target.
i need the european parliament, because without your pressure – including in your member states – to push for that emissions target, we will never get there.
we need at least to take energy and environment taxation out of unanimity, as well as corporate taxation and probably also taxation for the very wealthy, because otherwise we are undermining solidarity in europe.
colleagues, if you want to give me a big gift, we can build on your 55% climate.
today and next week we will be finalising, hopefully, the efficiency legislation, the renewables legislation and the energy and climate framework legislation.
the 2030 sustainable development agenda will be the backbone of the new acp-eu relationship.
let me give you an example: in the area of climate change, our joint efforts have been exceptionally fruitful.
the acp-eu council of ministers adopted the acp-eu joint declaration on climate change on 1 june, ahead of the upcoming conference in december.
on the eu side, we are convinced that we can do it, and are putting all our energy into achieving this.
the new framework is intended to encompass all relevant matters of joint interest, such as human rights, fundamental freedoms, democracy, the rule of law and good governance, human development, sustainable and inclusive growth, peace, security and justice, as well as mobility and migration.
only a comprehensive political partnership will put us in a position to build peaceful, well-governed and prosperous states and societies by accelerating progress towards the attainment of the sustainable development goals and thus to eradicate poverty and tackle discrimination and inequality.
let me also reassure you that the new partnership will fully confirm the commitment to implement the un 2030 agenda and its sustainable development goals.
in conclusion, we need a strong and determined european union, strong partner states, no skimping on resources, setting a course and, at the latest, achieving very encouraging and tangible results by 2030, the year in which the sustainable development goals should be achieved.
we now have a unique opportunity with agenda 2030 for sustainable development and its specific target 5.3 on child marriage.
an additive is added to them, but their impact on animal health, human health and the environment is the same as that of conventional plastics.
i have to say, madam president, 25.8 million tonnes of plastic waste are generated in the eu every year.
plastic waste also causes great damage on land, with catastrophic consequences for animals.
the environmental and health costs must be taken into account.
the sale, consumption and waste must be better regulated.
and above all, we must and will act to protect the health and the environment of our citizens.
no one is questioning the need for action on climate change.
we are also at the forefront of agri-environmental measures in agriculture.
the transport sector accounts for 64% of non-ets emissions.
25% of our electricity comes from coal, 24% from nuclear energy, and that certainly explains why the electricity giants who rely on nuclear power are trying to influence us massively.
thirdly, it has serious consequences for the environment.
intensive farming is also a source of pollution.
ammonia pollutes the air, water and soil and instead of subsidizing practices which are more respectful of the environment, animals and people, we finance these large-scale farming practices by subsidizing them with the cap.
87% of eu citizens are deeply concerned by the effects of plastics on our environment, and i have to tell you that they are right.
in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i tabled an amendment for a binding reduction target of 50% for single-use plastics in all member states by 2025. unfortunately, this was too ambitious for some members of this parliament.
as a contribution to forward-looking climate change policy, we propose to modulate tolls to reflect the level of co2 emissions.
at the same time, we would simplify the application of external cost-charging to address also other forms of pollution.
this should help them to tackle the problems of air pollution and noise generated by road transport.
these measures can help member states to finance transport infrastructure of critical importance and thus reduce congestion and environmental damage.
this mess is not in keeping with our present environmental ambitions or those of an integrated transport market.
i appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, let's let our natural ecosystem do its job, let the fox live and above all let it do its job, because it contributes a lot to the prevention of lyme disease.
the european disability strategy is the main instrument to support the union’s implementation of the convention until 2020. it is part of the wider efforts under the europe 2020 strategy to succeed in creating smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
we have every interest in the european union in cooperating with japan to secure a free and open environment in the region in asia.
this is clearly economically beneficial and it is intended to provide a basis for advancing important eu priorities regarding the economic transition towards a socially and environmentally sustainable model of growth and the protection of areas of overriding interest to public policy, such as health, safety and individual privacy.
it sets up mechanisms that both parties can use to accompany the industrial transformation that the world’s environment requires.
under the regulatory cooperation provisions, we will engage with japan on common responses to new technological challenges, from electric vehicles to product standards, to reducing waste.
japan is a country committed to sustainable development provisions and it has established an inter-ministerial group to work on their implementation.
it is important for us in the eu to protect our economic and social model by spurring sustainable growth through free and fair trade and by cooperating with a friend and ally like japan in the defence of these common interests.
japan is, in fact, an indispensable partner in tackling many of the challenges that we both face – including climate change and cybersecurity.
the eu and japan have been able to promote sustainable, rules-based connectivity in europe, asia and the pacific, so we are bringing asia and europe closer via this agreement, and that reflects the policy direction contained in our global strategy.
it will strengthen our cooperation in tackling the many other challenges that our economies and societies face, and mr peterle mentioned them –remaining competitive, respecting rapidly emerging economies, coping with ageing societies and addressing energy and resource concerns.
secondly, its chapter on sustainable development, including our renewed commitment to the paris agreement.
responsibility lies heavily on our shoulders to stand up for our values and our social and environmental standards.