similarly, our economy cannot grow without energy.
energy is needed for our factories, our businesses, our transport, our households, our agriculture - we all need energy.
but unfortunately we do not produce enough energy in europe, we do not have it, and we are forced to import mostly from russia (gas, petroleum products).
we can make a big difference, not just by using the energy we have more efficiently, but by using more of the energy we have, which is renewable energy -- that is, wind, solar, hydropower, biomass.
ladies and gentlemen, by supporting these two pieces of legislation, we will not only reduce our co2 emissions and do good for the environment, but we will also significantly reduce our dependence on imports, which is vital for the whole of europe.
europe drives the global agreement on climate change and it should be among the rule makers for cyber space.
climate change will lead to changes in the arctic landscape and will uncover new resources.
colleagues, if you fail to arrive at a sustainable agreement with norway on snow crabs we are going to have much more important disputes with norway and other signatories of the svalbard treaty, like the united kingdom and japan, for example.
in addition to energy savings, it provides major opportunities for evening activities.
– mr president, while the trans-adriatic pipeline (tap) is an ambitious and game—changing project that can contribute to the eu’s efforts in decarbonising the economy and introducing environment friendly energy supply, it faces several criticisms, and not without reason.
tap will create a stronger bond between this region and the eu and consequently improve our energy harmonisation.
if we are bound to build greater energy security in the eu, tap will certainly make a great contribution – and, more than that, tap means major economic development and job creation for all the countries concerned.
tourism activities represent a big share of income on the adriatic shore, and environmental security in this regard is a matter of great importance.
i repeat this again and again because, in today’s europe, where there is a desire to promote democratic consultation and accountability, respect for sustainability and the harmonious life of households, we cannot afford to let business be done only among the big players, while ordinary people stand looking on, without a say.
mr president, the european union needs a stable financial environment.
i believe that it is necessary to make the kremlin pay a higher price for its actions by designing and implementing comprehensive measures in the areas of finances, technology and energy.
the challenge is that these currencies, which exist only in the online environment, are by definition completely anonymous.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
if our journalists operate in a climate of intimidation and fear we shall have weak and toothless journalism and, as a result, a weak civil society.
the study produced on behalf of the european commission by balance technology consulting shows that the well-being of the european shipbuilding sector has not only economic but also political, security-related and environmental implications for the european union.
another reason why we need an effective industrial strategy in the maritime sector is environmental concerns.
the eu has an image of the most progressive power in terms of environmental regulation and it should also uphold this principle in its maritime trade relations.
this will also contribute to our efforts in promoting environmental standards.
furthermore, climate change is going to uncover new maritime routes in the arctic region.
this is not just and sustainable, given that we face almost the same costs and challenges across europe.
to overcome these hurdles it is necessary to develop firstly public funding, then sustainable and long-term cultural tourism policy, then coordination of national cultural policies (i have to say), and digital education.
i think that the speech of european commission president jean-claude juncker was a little lacking in energy and in the appreciation of his mistakes, and a little too optimistic.
even if the eu is still silent on the concrete membership process, the georgian side is really putting a lot of energy into it.
they need our expertise in energy, in the environment, in safety standards and other fields.
if you want our engagement in georgia to be sustainable, we need to boost it with knowledge, not only with money.
they correspond to parliament’s main political priorities – namely, in support of researchers, young people, smes, tackling the root causes of migration, climate change and increasing the security of eu citizens.