mr president, the clean energy package, which we are dealing with today, is our opportunity to decarbonise the economy while keeping energy affordable for all.
ensuring clean energy will help our climate and safeguard the wellbeing of our citizens.
if we are both ambitious and realistic, we can understand that the way forward is to reduce drastically greenhouse gas emissions, improve energy security, reduce energy bills and eradicate energy poverty, if we are smart enough.
this will lead to the creation of jobs and a marked reduction in air pollution.
over the past months, we have worked hard in the various committees to reach a progressive position that can effectively transform our energy landscape, make the transport sector cleaner and fight energy poverty.
today, and in the months to come, we need to send a strong signal – to businesses, citizens and all stakeholders – that this is the time to be competitive, invest further in new economies and ensure clean energy for all.
it could be that i come from an island in the middle of the mediterranean, and that makes me much more aware of the environmental and health problems that plastic waste brings.
i think this is our opportunity to actually make sure that we put environment at the forefront, while also making sure that we get industry on board.
this is our opportunity because people are aware of the impact that plastic has, not only on our environment but also on our health.
we hope that we will see this by may, as we really want to make sure that we have progress on another legislative proposal from your end to make sure that waste does not come into our ports.
on the contrary, it can create an environment where it will be more difficult to achieve an agreement.
a few points on the issues of climate change, renewable energy, and the protection of nature.
we are lucky to have such a place in europe, with all the benefits of being on the adriatic and the danube, being a country which is really rich in water and natural resources, but we are also aware of our energy needs.
so we are looking at the ecological aspects of every single project in a very detailed manner in dialogue with local communities and in dialogue with the ngos looking at various projects and various items.
the industrial revolutions for zero waste and digitalisation are presenting enormous opportunities, but they are also placing extraordinary pressure on skills.
to give you a glimpse: the country reports will pay special attention to investing in skills and building adequate safety nets and supporting sustainable and inclusive growth.
it is the only way to ensure that our welfare systems remain sustainable.
many members were worried about climate-related investments and many members said that the eib should finance more climate-related investments.
the eib is already now – and correct me, mr hoyer, if i am wrong – but according to my knowledge, the eib is the biggest climate financer when looking at these kind of banks.
also efsi 2.0 has already decided to dedicate some 40% of overall investment capacity to address climate change.
we can talk forever about energy lending.
the energy policy of the european union, unfortunately, is not set by me, or it would look a little bit different.
we finance activities that are in line with the energy objectives of the european union.
there is no doubt about that, because our energy lending is energy-source neutral, but still i cannot promise you that some day i will have stopped financing fossil-fuel energy projects.
as a matter of fact, when it comes to green bonds, which were just mentioned, we were the inventors of the green bonds (climate awareness bonds).
we are still the largest issuer of climate awareness bonds and we are the ones who are now trying to find ways of expanding the idea of these – let’s say social responsibility bonds – to other areas in order to help finance sustainable development goals and other goals – in particular, for instance, right now when it comes to the ocean conference which is just ahead, where we have to bring a big european contribution to cleaning up the oceans.
in malta we also have a vibrant civil society, different organisations working for the protection of media freedom, for the environment and a strong call for justice amongst others.
one has to note that the concept of daylight saving time (dst) was introduced to save energy.
this practice may have made sense in the past when lighting made up the major part of energy consumption in the household.
however, today’s energy expenses are different.
energy saving lighting further reduces such expenses.
the proper functioning of the rule of law is also essential, in particular, for the seamless operation of the internal market and an investment—friendly environment.
we need to continue to see investment, for example, become one that sees improvements in product and service markets and this to lead to long-term growth and also to help make public spending more sustainable.
it is also important, however, that the orchestra now looks for new methods of funding to ensure that it remains sustainable because after all the year 2020 is not so far away and i also welcome the emphasis made in the report on the need for a transparent selection of musicians from different european countries.
– mr president, i have always believed that we need very strong policies to make sure that we deliver on our climate obligations.
i am strongly convinced, however, that we did not manage to deliver this in the effort sharing regulation or climate action regulation, call it what you may.
as socialists and democrats, we will be abstaining on the final deal, in the same way that we did in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, because the deal reached is far less than what is needed and far less than what can be achieved.
i believe it keeps us from embarking on a truly low-emissions development pathway.
i have always considered the commission to be an honest broker that plays a fundamental role in climate policy.
that is why i call upon the commission to enhance its role and make sure that member states play their part because all of them – i repeat, all of them – should share in the efforts to address climate change.
the two—faced approach, where national leaders make fancy statements at climate summits, but then show very little ambition where it counts, should cease.
this is a waste-creating economy.
the impact would be devastating, not only for the environment but equally important for the quality of our lives as citizens.
we've had environmentalists go out and protect areas that are supposed to be off-limits to development to remain protected as environmental areas.
if properly implemented, this law could help protect the environment while also helping the car industry regain consumer confidence.
sustainability should be the main framework of all our plans and policies.
concerning the criterion used when calculating the allocation of cohesion funds, unemployment, climate change and migration will now also be considered as relevant indicators.
i speak today as a representative of gozitan; the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
in fact, any policy must not only address today's challenges but must also see how to prepare the best path for the future to truly enjoy modern, safe and clean transport; and i will focus on a key aspect of the proposals: reducing emissions from large cars such as trucks.
these targets to reduce emissions are a positive step forward considering that to date we have no standards similar to those of other countries, even on other continents.
it is true that lorries and heavy duty vehicles account for less than five per cent of vehicles on european roads but they are responsible for almost twenty-five per cent of the greenhouse gas emissions on our roads and we cannot do anything about it otherwise they will continue to increase.
now, if we really want to work towards better air quality, then we must reduce not only the emissions from small cars but also the emissions from large trucks; and this is another sector where competition from outside europe is strong with the production of electric trucks and buses.
in its industrial policy, the commission should also strengthen the way to provide technical assistance to help local and regional communities to adapt to social, economic and environmental changes.
they also suffer from the problem, for example, of ghost fishing, where nets are left at sea and these then reduce the fish they can catch in a sustainable way.
i think this is a sector that we should promote, also because it can link up with a commercial area such as sustainable tourism.
apart from existing instruments to that effect – namely the european union trust fund, the partnership framework, the valletta action plan and eu member states’ development assistance – more facilities have been developed such as the recently launched european fund for sustainable development, which supports investment in africa and in neighbourhood countries.
today, europe is much more built around the east-west corridor, but this potential - in scandinavia, germany, poland, austria, hungary, bulgaria, the czech republic, slovakia, romania and southwards to greece - is much less exploited due to the lack of gas, energy, rail and road infrastructure.
anyone who is denied authorisation will not waste time and money travelling to schengen border crossing points.
madam president, the questions of sustainability and adequacy that face basic pension systems need first to be faced and solved on a national basis before they can realistically be dealt with on a european basis.
plastic waste in mediterranean countries is indeed among the biggest concerns of european citizens and the topic we are discussing today helps citizens make the best choice to reduce waste and reduce its impact.
i believe this is the beginning of a circular and more sustainable economy.
only in this way can we have a circular economy that reduces plastic pollution and the negative impact on the environment and on people's health.
and when animals consume antibiotics, between 30 and 90 percent end up contaminating the environment, the soil and even the drinking water.
i am proud to be standing here to defend the committee on the environment’s position on legislation that respects our climate targets, the environment, public health, industry and competitiveness.
i am proud because together we realised that the way forward is to ensure the environmental integrity of the industry as a whole.
we agreed that real driving emissions are a necessity, and that any emission values that the european commission bases itself on have to be measured values and not simply values declared by the car manufacturers.
we agreed that we have to move from measuring emissions at the tail pipe to analysing the whole life cycle of a vehicle.
and we have a choice: we have a choice between attracting investment to the european union or letting other continents take the lead, with all the disruptive effects that this will have on our industry, on our companies and our small producers, our environment and our cities.
this is the time to show that, for us, it is not a question of industry versus the environment, but an issue of making sure that we address both the environment and industry together.
he said that infrastructure needs to move forward, and that is something we agree upon and that we also addressed in the environment position.
poverty and inequality are not only detrimental to social cohesion, but also to sustainable economic growth.
in fact, i was recently struck by a comment i heard, which suggests that because we want to reduce pollution we are cut off from reality.
so today, on the eve of another climate change conference, we must take the warnings that have been made seriously.
imagine the reaction if you heard that every minute in the same place a garbage truck full of plastic is dumping waste into our seas.
this is the moment that environmental awareness among our citizens about how we can better dispose of plastic waste is there.
let me now focus on the mediterranean sea after a recent report identified the mediterranean as the sea with a record level of microplastic pollution that is threatening marine species and even human health.
today, plastic represents ninety-five percent of the waste that is on the surface of the mediterranean and our beaches.
in europe we produce a huge amount of plastic waste, much of which ends up in landfills and millions of tonnes of this plastic end up in the mediterranean itself.
a typical example is the law on the reduction of pollution from cars.
as long as we continue to think that the economy and the environment are separate, i am not convinced that things will change.
for the parliament, one of the key points was to include diesel engine exhaust emissions under the scope of the directive as well as a limit value in its annex 3. thanks to an open and transparent dialogue and the willingness of the council to compromise in order to reach the common goal of strengthening workers’ protection, this point has been included in the text that you are adopting in this session.
we are giving concrete meaning to principle 10 of the european pillar of social rights, which provides that every worker has the right to a healthy, safe and well-adapted work environment.