rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
– mr president, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), most of the discussion we had was also on the sustainability criteria of bioenergy: for transport biofuels and also for the energy sector, when talking about gaseous and solid biomass.
unfortunately, there are not enough proposals going in that direction: for example, the overall transport target that is still in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) position, which will push for food based crops again – we will try to make sure that that 12% ambition is maintained, but not as an overall transport target but there where the ambition should go to advance.
the third point on bioenergy for the energy industry: really exclude burning whole trees.
because let's face it, energy is what keeps everything in our lives running: not just the economy, but our daily lives.
but europe has three major energy problems: (1) the price; 2) it is still too polluting; 3) we are far too dependent on imports from outside europe.
for all three problems, the solution is the same: energy savings and a huge input of renewable energy.
as sean kelly said: is europe really becoming the renewable capital of the world?
so if we as europe want to move forward in this area, if we want to become energy independent, if we want to have lower energy prices and also if we want to stay within the paris climate targets, then more ambition is really needed.
mr president, we have heard some wonderful stories about clean energy today.
my question is: what sacrifices have the people in this room made to save their ideals, a good environment?
i am thinking of the environment, innovation and european cooperation.
proven benefits of this method: significantly less fuel consumption, significantly less co2 emissions, significantly less unwanted by-catches and significantly less disturbance of the north sea bottom.
bye bye innovation, the environment and european cooperation.
mr mato has shown himself to be a reliable european, a champion of the environment and innovation.
but we don't know anything about the impact of the pulsar on the ecosystem.
an innovation that saves the seabed, the climate and the environment.
shareholders and employers benefit more from trade than, for example, workers or the environment.
not just for workers or the environment, but also to prevent unfair competition between companies.
for example, the trade agreement with south korea includes a sustainability clause.
in ceta we have called for the enforceability of decent labour and environmental standards.
the european union must ensure that the chapters on labour and environmental standards can be enforced in practice.
only in this way can the european union combat social or environmental dumping in third countries.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the eu's meddling and waste of money is again unlimited.
it's about the climate.
if we're looking for conflict resolution, we have to recognize that we're dealing with a climate problem, a lifestyle problem, a scarcity problem.
in several member states the pension systems show considerable weaknesses and shortcomings, and that is contrary to the aim of sustainable public finance.
we wanted to raise this issue in the debate in the committee on the environment last week.
i would be very grateful if we could have that answer before we can debate it again with you in the committee on the environment.
we do know that the price of carbon credits has gone up by about 20% so far, so it might be successful.
first of all, carbon leakage.
we are still handing out 95% of all allowances for free to industry, even for sectors that have no real trade or carbon intensity.
both in the committee on the environment and in the committee on industry it was clear that we wanted ambition on the one hand - because, yes, the system had to be adjusted - but also realism, so that our industry, our innovation and our jobs did not go elsewhere.
this is not good for the climate - we are often the cleanest producers in the world - or for employment.
i am therefore also very pleased that the innovation fund has been strengthened so that developments such as carbon capture and storage, the projects currently being carried out in the port of rotterdam, can hopefully be implemented.
the same applies to carbon capture and recycling, the plan to transport co2 from the chemical cluster in geleen to the greenhouses in north limburg, where it can be used as a raw material.
i know, mr hoyer, that you have your emissions performance standard of 550 g co2/kwh, which is taking out the lending to coal, but we need to talk about gas.
well, lending to gas is not leading on implementation of the paris agreement, and let me just mention some numbers before you answer that such lending is needed for energy security.
it's a useless ritual and doesn't deliver the energy savings that were once the goal.
so, good enforcement of food safety and environmental standards, for example.
focus on modernisation, on really making the eu budget future-oriented, on really making agriculture green and on making it deliver sustainable food.
mr president, if it were up to me, the annual growth survey would be called the sustainable growth survey, because that is what we should be aiming for – not just any growth, but sustainable, inclusive growth: growth that benefits not just the top, but also those at the bottom.
this is a first step towards the social sustainable europe that i have in mind, but more is needed: we need binding social floors in our member states which guarantee social protection for all, and don’t just aim for it.
i have long advocated the inclusion of both social and environmental standards in trade agreements.
this uncertainty creates a climate of deep distrust and frustration of citizens with the public institutions.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on energy, research and technology, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the common organization of the market in electricity and hydrogen.
and to meet the paris climate targets, we have to switch to alternative fuels.
because only if we put industry, the commission, the member states and consumers at the centre of this together will we really make sustainable transport a european success story.
this morning, before i came to strasbourg, i again checked the so-called carbon clock, and the carbon clock indicates how much time we still have left with current co2 emissions in order to stay within the paris agreement.
for the 1.5 degrees scenario, the time we have left in the medium estimate – so that is not the most extreme – with current co2 emissions is four months and 22 days.
on the contrary, it was extremely difficult, extremely difficult, to get the council moving, and even the arguments that we used from parliament’s side, that with the energy efficiency, a proposal from the commission of 30% instead of the 27%, and with the upcoming facilitative dialogue in the un process, it was absolutely necessary to increase ambition, their answer was very stubborn and that was a clear ‘no’.
nevertheless parliament did achieve quite some improvements in this climate action regulation because now we finally got rid of that awful name of ‘effort sharing regulation’, from now on we can call it clearly the climate action regulation.
and, very important, there is a strong reference to the long-term climate strategy that the eu and the individual member states must develop, and the european council recently confirmed that by asking the commission to come forward with proposals.
they were tough negotiations but there is now a package on the table, and with this package we conclude the climate legislation until 2030 – at least for the moment, because we all know that what is on the table will lead us to minus 40% in 2030, which is insufficient for the paris implementation.
it has been weakened too often and we know also that the base year has been put to a very bad level which means that the cumulative emissions will be much bigger than could have been possible.
in the end, for climate it is the cumulative emissions that count.
that is why the greens will vote against that part of the climate legislation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the effects of climate change, including the introduction of a new environmental law.
i am glad that this climate law allows for a very important natural event, namely that agriculture is one of the few sectors that is also able to capture co2 from the air in the form of soil life and organic matter in the soil.
not only is this good for the climate, but it also creates a win-win situation in three other ways.
i am glad that with this legislation farmers, foresters and gardeners are able to count this in their own co2 emissions, and that they can also sell and reward this to other sectors.
mr president, a lot of people in this chamber have said a lot of things, and we are talking about the climate agreement.
from day one, i've said in this room, i will support it, but it must be feasible, affordable and workable, especially for the agricultural sector - and especially if we are talking about article 2 of the climate policy - and it must not come at the expense of food production.
it is up to the commission to now think of ways to strengthen our climate policy in europe that is necessarily in the light and in the spirit of the paris agreement.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a waste-processing plant.
waste of raw materials is simply unwise.
this legislation saves both our environment and our collective wallet for governments, producers and consumers alike.
increased emphasis on waste innovation, including the recovery of minerals from soil masses and the drastic reduction of landfilling of waste.
the european waste technology sector now has enormous opportunities thanks to the determination of this parliament.
finally, circular innovation simply means ecological and economic optimization, and that's what farmers in europe have actually been doing for hundreds of years.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97).
certainly when everything gets framed in the context of migration management, i do not think that that is a long-term and a sustainable and values-based solution.
we are against the waste of european taxpayers' money in supporting unprofitable companies and bankrupt shipyards.
mr novakov's report rightly outlines the challenges for transport infrastructure beyond 2020. completion of the trans-european transport network, improving the sustainability of transport, and applying innovations.
i also call for more resources from the european regional development fund, specifically for crossborder investment projects in sustainable transport infrastructure in europe.
on the other hand, if we can achieve this package, then european transport, but also energy, will become cleaner, safer and better digitised, will have a better infrastructure and will bring more benefits to european industry.
i want us to be able to deal with price fluctuations, to deal with crop failures, but also to have the sector provide solutions to combat climate change, to reduce environmental impact, to preserve biodiversity and landscape elements.
no, it can only do so by making the sector more competitive, more innovative and by ensuring that the sector comes up with solutions to climate and environmental problems.
through technical solutions such as big data, solar panels, precision agriculture and ecological innovations such as soil health improvement, breeding, and the use of insects to control pests.
the so-called cef programme covers not only transport but also energy and telecommunications.
president, 180 billion a year is needed for the transition to a sustainable economy.
it has to be sustainable.
president, the world around us is changing and it is therefore good that the european union is investing in new priorities, such as the protection of external borders, tackling or mitigating climate change, ensuring greater security, cyber security.
workers have the right to seek an economic future if they cannot find it directly in their own environment.
international environmental organizations are even calling for a vote against this plan.
the slight problem with what we are doing now in parliament – and that is why we were critical in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) – is that for the resceu, we are now broadening the scope on what it should work towards, even going into the locations of terrorist attacks, etc.
if i understand correctly, our buses are also covered by these heavy vehicles, and bus pollution is really a very big issue in various cities.
the eu has chosen, with international partners, to bind and verify iran’s nuclear programme through the international atomic energy agency (iaea), and our part of the deal is lifting sanctions.
we need to prevent waste from the agricultural industry, and we can do that.
so let's test everything for solidarity and sustainability and restrain the market.
you then say that greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced not by 30%, but by 55%.
it also does not bring us any closer to the objectives of the climate agreement.
we have too much poverty and not enough renewable energy.
and the greenhouse gas emissions are much higher than those of our european colleagues.
in a world of trump, kim jong un, brexit and refugee flows, facebook and climate change, europe is our protection.
in addition, the climate agreement implies an increase.
in the netherlands we have always done what europe asked us to do in the environmental field.
it is about our transport companies and a viable countryside, and ultimately also about article 2 of the climate agreement.
you are also making very good progress on climate.
i can tell you that the european parliament supports the netherlands in reducing emissions by 55 per cent.
europe calls on the member states not to waste culture in times of scarcity.
related – and secondly – the sustainability of debt is far from assured.
is it a coincidence that a debt sustainability analysis has not been published?
it is certainly not a coincidence that the imf has raised severe doubts about the debt sustainability, and does not participate?
it creates jobs for people, it tackles environmental problems and it ensures sound public finances.
one is the work we are doing with africa on economic, infrastructure, energy and digital issues – on the non—traditional fields of eu-africa cooperation.
i will present, together with other colleagues in the commission, the package we have adopted today in the college and about which president juncker will speak tomorrow regarding our sustainable economic partnership with africa.
i come from a critical environment with regard to europe, but i want to stress one thing: the expertise and assistance i have received from the european delegation shows the added value of a well-functioning, competent european embassy in a great power like china.
that's exactly what sustainable finance is about, which is a broader view so that pension funds and insurance companies don't just put money into fossil fuel companies, companies that violate human rights, or companies that evade taxes.
unfortunately, this waste also includes a number of disposable forks and the like which would be biodegradable under the influence of oxygen but which do not appear to be biodegradable in the aquatic environment.
the production of plastic waste is unacceptable because microplastics pollute our environment and our seas.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97).
in addition, in some parts of the world, large amounts of antibiotics are still being released into the environment through wastewater during the manufacture of medicines.
in the meantime, we are still waiting for a strategy to deal with pharmaceutical pollution.
i am even more concerned about the environmental and climate damage that this is causing.
our mobility can only be future-proof if it is also sustainable.
and that can contribute to fewer road accidents, better traffic flow and lower co2 emissions.
and it has an environmental impact.
it is our task and the task of the industry to minimise this environmental impact.
with ecological innovations, like the use of insects and microorganisms, but also technological innovations, like precision agriculture, but then as a last resort to ensure that the harvest is not lost.
to prevent food waste, chemical means are sometimes needed.
the commission has a duty to ensure that only products are approved which are not harmful to humans, animals or the environment.
multinationals are putting the environment and money ahead of health.
but parliament has neglected these opportunities at the expense of animals, people and the environment.
the netherlands is leading the way in this by creating an environment in which experts from government, business and the blockchain sector work together.
and thirdly: the computation of blockchain takes a lot of energy.
how does this fit in with the paris climate agreement?
therefore, highly ambitious co2 targets are essential for the survival of the european car industry, and that we get climate and clean air for free with that is a wonderful side effect.
it will be very clear that our entire economy needs to go to zero emissions by 2050. the commissioner agrees with that, i even see him nodding.
so that means that all the sectors need to deliver because not every sector can go to zero emissions.
then last week’s non—paper – even that paper showed that with the reduction target that the committee on the environment (envi) is proposing, 151 000 more jobs will be created.
car manufacturers are also thinking about the near future and there is a desire among car manufacturers to take a step towards zero-emission vehicles or at least vehicles that have significantly lower emissions than what we are talking about now.
mr president, as cda, we want co2 emissions from passenger cars and vans to be drastically reduced by 2030. all sectors should contribute to the objectives of the paris agreement.
the sacred cow, the passenger car, must also contribute to achieving these climate goals, just as this house also requires great sacrifices from agriculture, the ordinary cow.
climate innovation will create additional opportunities and jobs for the automotive sector and other high-tech companies in europe.
economic growth and sensible, ambitious climate goals just go hand in hand.
the energy and resources required at the local and regional level to provide for those people ultimately come at the expense of the much-needed energy and resources we need to find protection for genuine refugees.
in order to ensure that as many chickens as possible survive, a huge amount of antibiotics is being used, and this is only because production and consumption in the european union must grow compulsively, at the expense of public health, the environment and, of course, animals.
– mr president, i think that it is very good that we are discussing climate and biodiversity at the same time, because we all know that we have global pledges on the table, but europe is not on track in meeting those pledges.
i will focus first on climate because i have only 45 seconds left, and maybe just to start with the presidency.
the council should take a step further and not just reiterate what we already promised in 2015. that brings me to the commission and a very plain question: i know that you have said that in your long-term strategy, mr cañete, you said that we are going to look at a zero-carbon for 2050 scenario.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat climate change, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account.
the second point, mr president, is that finger raised, that finger raised to the european citizens: "you can't fly anymore because it's very bad for the environment".
so i think that the commission has learned – and now finally also understood – that we can do more against plastic pollution to really go against single—use plastic: banning the plastic that is ending up on our beaches, making sure that we are reducing where possible, and also extending the producers’ responsibility.
this shows that we can have a commission that delivers for people and the environment, and i do hope that this commission will continue that and stop this nonsense about red tape.
that's the carbon storage that 3.7 billion euros have been invested in.
as should the 2 billion that should be used for innovative renewable energy technology.
the moment someone actually crosses the eu's external border, the original member state is informed and corrected so that we can focus our energy on the people who are still here.
commissioner, everyone is concerned about the environment and animal welfare.
but it is also important to note that in many parts of the eu, there is a lot of investment in the livestock sector to invest in a better environment and animal welfare.
i therefore call for a harmonised approach in the areas of the environment, animal welfare and antibiotics.
commissioner, to really do something about climate change, we need smart and cost-effective policies.
they can't solve climate change on their own.
i think that is important, considering that, unlike most other sectors, co2 emissions from the transport sector are still rising.
i believe that the european union must give a fair answer, in which social labour standards and environmental standards are given the highest priority.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
– madam president, first i would like to point out that what we are going to adopt tomorrow is going to be a historic package for 2030. an energy package that is stimulating on efficiency, renewables and also making sure that we have a governance in place, that it’s not only numbers on paper but that we are really going to deliver.
in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), we were very much focusing on issues surrounding biofuels and biomass.
i think it is good to realise that, for the first time ever, we have sustainability criteria in place for biomass use in, for example, power plants.
president, commissioner, climate scientists around the world are concluding that if we are to avoid the worst effects of climate change, we must not allow the earth to warm by more than 1.5 degrees.
i am therefore also pleased that the eu now has ambitious plans to save energy and to use renewable energy.
it is about reducing co2 emissions, and i also believe that we should seriously consider the use of nuclear energy.
mr president, there are also sensible issues that are put on the political agenda by the establishment parties: clean energy or plastic waste in the wild or in the sea, we can't really argue with that.
during my time in the national parliament, activist groups and environmental movements came to tell me that.
scientists warn that the pressure on the ecosystem is so great that if we do nothing now, the point of no return is imminent.
this is a carte blanche for overfishing, a carte blanche to eradicate anchovies and sardines, species which are very important for the adriatic ecosystem.
the adriatic needs a rescue plan, a plan that stops overfishing now and not in three years, now, as agreed in the united nations sustainable development goals.
the money is spent but the environmental objectives will not be met.
i am very much in favour of spending more money on those issues, on those challenges that individual member states cannot tackle alone, such as migration, climate, security and innovation.
i call on parliament to stop implementing the un's sustainable development goals, to stop pursuing an inclusive europe, to stop the obsession with gender neutrality, to stop the climate hysteria, to stop the islamisation of europe and to stop embracing non-western immigrants.
because, if you look at heavy—duty vehicles, this is one of the sectors in europe that is fast increasing and where co2 emissions are also fast increasing.
for now, total eu co2 emissions are at a level of 6%, of which 25% is from road transport and it is increasing.
we know that to meet our climate targets agreed in the paris agreement we need to go to zero emissions.
that’s also why we as a parliament, in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), agreed on raising the ambition level compared to what the commission was proposing to a level that we say should be minus 20% by 2025 and minus 35% by 2030. i want to stress that this level of minus 20% by 2025 is, according to the impact assessment from the commission, also possible with existing technologies.
we are not subscribing to any technology, but are pushing just for a mandate on zero and low—emission vehicles of 5% by 2025, rising to 20% by 2030, in order to prepare the market for these new technologies to arrive in order to get to the deeper carbon cuts that are necessary for implementation of the paris agreement.
(applause)
madam president, i assume that if you asked most europeans if the co2 emissions of trucks and buses are tackled in the eu they would say ‘yes’.
that’s not only necessary to keep the paris climate agreement in sight, it’s also necessary, as commissioner arias cañete already emphasised, to safeguard the competitiveness of our own truck manufacturers in europe.
i feel that there is quite some support for what we did in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), which is very good.
this means that we know that if in the transport sector we are not reducing our emissions enough, reductions will need to come from the other sectors that fall under the effort sharing regulation, being housing or agriculture.
all the analysis shows that a co2 standard on cars and heavy—duty vehicles is the cost—effective way to reduce emissions in those sectors that fall under the effort sharing regulation, and that’s what we’re doing here.
traveling by train is a sustainable alternative to the polluting car or the kerosene-sniffing airplane.
if we encourage more people to take the train more often, we will contribute to making our mobility more sustainable.
we will then contribute to the achievement of the paris climate targets.
we will also ensure that transport to the stations and the journey to the destination is sustainable.
not only will european rail passengers be grateful to you for this, but so will the climate!
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97).
we're now finding genx everywhere in the environment!
these substances do not belong in our environment, in our water, or in our bodies!
it means that climate change is not business as usual.
it means climate-proofing the entire budget.
my plea is that the commission should launch a climate-proofing exercise of the next 2021—2027 budget proposal.
the commission should also look again at its plans for sustainable finance because just sustaining a very small part of the financial sector will not be sufficient for this fundamental change of our economy and society.
i quote mr šefčovič, ‘our strategy now shows that by 2050 it’s realistic to make europe both climate neutral and prosperous, while leaving no european and no region behind’ – it’s beautiful – and mr arias cañete, ‘going climate neutral is necessary, possible and in europe’s interest’.
i’m a bit confused now because, at the end of the document, you conclude, ‘well, you know, the eu should adopt and submit an ambitious strategy by early 2020 to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), as requested under the paris agreement’, so our mid—century strategy for this beautiful scenario will be published sometime in early 2020. now i’m really confused.
if you are sketching a beautiful scenario out there that we should do it for everything – for people, for the economy, for the environment – so we are creating a heaven on earth, but we wait until 2030 before we take additional action, it doesn’t make sense economically.
environmentally it doesn’t make sense because the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) was very clear: we need early action to meet the 1.5 degrees goal.
that’s our economic and our environmental challenge, and the commission is just postponing, as always.
unfortunately, i can only conclude that, despite the nice words, climate change policy is not a priority for this commission.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97).
it plays a wonderful catalytic role to initiate, expand and accelerate sustainability, and its main success factor is that it’s quality—driven.
life is very successful, but too many other european funds are going against the interests of biodiversity, nature and the environment, and especially the strategic integrated projects under the life programme play a very important role here.
the first is that this life budget can only be relatively small if all other eu budget funds are not going against the interests of the environment.
finally, regarding the other amendment from the epp on large carnivores: i know it’s a political debate and it’s worthwhile having that debate here, but putting it among the general objectives of the life programme, which talks about climate, environment and biodiversity in general terms, and then adding large carnivores as equal to those general objectives doesn’t make a lot of sense to me.
because if you open the newspapers now, the farmer is very often used as a scapegoat for climate change, biodiversity loss, environmental impact and you name it.
the carbon footprint of milk has fallen by 32%, of pork by 35%, of poultry by 46%, of eggs by 38%, of veal by 50%, of sugar by 41% and of greenhouse farming by 59% since 1990. in the last three years 15 000 hectares of agricultural land have disappeared in the netherlands.
whatever farming system you use - whether conventional or organic - in producing food, you always have an environmental impact and you always interfere with nature.
one, to see the farmer as a scapegoat and not have any respect for him or two, to see him as an important partner in making agriculture more sustainable.
i am glad that in this new legislation for the life programme, which provides money for climate and the environment, they want to take up that glove and want to work with farmers for an even more sustainable agriculture and horticulture.
we're going to talk about climate today.
in my experience, not even the environment.
in the netherlands, mr president, the average dutch household will pay an extra 300 euros on their energy bill next year.
and then when it comes to biodiversity and the large carnivores, you all know what dantin said: it's part of it, it's flora and fauna.
but, mr gerbrandy, there is also an amendment - i wrote it myself - on green and blue ecosystem services with a new common agricultural policy.
but do you not think it is a little strange that when you describe the general objectives of this life fund - you are talking about climate in general, biodiversity in general, the environment in general - that the epp adds large predators to that as the same category?
so please take your thoughts about the importance of the environment, about climate policy and about biodiversity when you consider the other 95% of the eu budget.
the health of humans and animals and the right to a healthy environment must always take precedence over the commercial interests of the poison producers.
fortunately, the committee on the environment and the committee on pesticides have taken a different line.
it is of the utmost importance that we have a scientific risk assessment to determine whether these products are dangerous to the environment, to humans or to animals.
realism to understand that a debt of over 130% of your own annual income is not sustainable and neither is spending nearly 3% more than you get.
no, but it will facilitate the flow of goods and services between us in a smart and sustainable way, and it also allows us to work towards setting high standards in the digital economy, towards wto reform, towards better environmental protection and reaching the 2030 sustainable development goals.
tackling climate change is at the top of our european agenda.
it is important that the sustainable transition happens in a social way, so that people with smaller pockets do not unilaterally pay the bill for our climate ambitions.
i accept the price tag attached to measures to combat climate change, but i do not accept the unfair burden sharing.
many people are willing to do their part to make a sustainable transition, but not if it has to be paid for with higher taxes on everyday groceries, higher energy bills for people in rental housing and subsidies for solar panels for people with a detached commercial property.
that's bad for the foundation for the energy transition.
we are calling for a european transition fund to help vulnerable regions to bear the social costs of climate change.
sustainable development must become a social project, of which compensation for the poor is a part.
it's helping us to innovate agriculture even further, to address the climate problem, and to make the best use of space in military operations.