mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, investing in clean energy means a better quality of life, fewer disasters and more sustainability for the planet.
it means even more possibilities to combat energy poverty in europe and beyond, and through this fight, it means more health, more education, more peace, reduced forced migration and armed conflict.
and in energy, the european union has always been at the forefront.
mr president, cleaner or dirtier, greener or greyer, the so-called 'energy union' means nothing but the great and liberalised single european energy market.
the consequences will be no different from those in other liberalised sectors: monopolistic concentration on a european scale, benefiting energy oligopolies and harming consumers, especially the most vulnerable.
for us, energy should be seen as a public good.
the public, democratic control of the energy sector is therefore a prerequisite for ensuring its sustainability, with the necessary paradigm shift based on the high dependence on fossil fuels and on unsustainable energy and material flows to meet the basic needs of humanity, but also to ensure that no one is excluded from access to this essential good, by combating energy poverty.
we are intervening in this process, arguing for the need for ambitious targets, both in terms of energy efficiency and renewable energy, in the context of respect for national sovereignty over this strategic sector and the necessary break with a production mode that is fundamentally unsustainable and irrational.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in a way that is compatible with the objectives of the treaty.
the seas provide food, energy, mobility, medicine and leisure, and are a source of economic growth.
according to oecd estimates, ocean-based industries represent a global gross value added of around eur 1.3 billion, which could double by 2030. oceans also host a rich, fragile and largely untapped biodiversity that provides a variety of important ecosystem services and resources.
marine and coastal economies are developing around the world, but their success depends on better sustainability.
the oceans also play a key role in regulating the climate system, supplying half of our oxygen, absorbing about 25 percent of the co2 emissions produced and redistributing heat across the planet.
the oceans are actually our biggest allies against climate change and they were included in the paris agreement.
however, our oceans are extremely vulnerable to overexploitation, climate change such as global ocean warming, environmental degradation, water acidification due to emissions from human activities, pollution and biodiversity loss.
some of these most urgent global challenges, including climate change, poverty, safe and sufficient food for a population projected to reach 9 billion by 2050, can only be effectively addressed if the oceans are safe, clean and managed sustainably.
these challenges have been recognised globally both at the rio+20 summit and in the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development, which has identified the conservation and sustainable use of our oceans as one of the 17 sustainable development goals and as part of a highly interconnected agenda.
international ocean governance is concerned with three areas of action for the european union: sustainable development, growth and employment and the union's intervention in the world.
the 2018 budget, cobbling together president rouhani’s neoliberal agenda and ayatollah khamenei’s clerical fiat, exposed the regime’s disconnect over spending on religious institutions and military foreign adventures, such as in syria, while imposing social cuts and increases in fuel prices, at a time when several provinces face drought and environmental degradation.
this delay contrasts with the acceleration of time that characterizes today's world, which is confronted with profound changes in the technological, energy, economic and labour market sectors, among others, which are causing anxiety and insecurity among europeans.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the commission on the launch of the first european strategy for plastics and on the efforts it is making to harmonize environmental protection and protection with economic growth and the innovation it brings.
the reality is that we europeans generate 25 million tonnes of plastic waste a year, of which less than 70% is collected for recycling, the rest ends up in our oceans, polluting everything in its path, endangering the very sustainability of the planet.
so i think it's up to all of us to create the conditions for this dependence to end in favour of a more sustainable environment.
it is essential that the production and use of waste and unnecessary products be reduced, but we are not going to do that with the market approaches advocated by the european commission or with so-called economic instruments.
the application of the polluter-pays principle, which means reserving the right to pollute to those who can pay for it, does not make pollution less harmful because someone, in this case the consumer, pays for it.
that the proliferation of unnecessary packaging be tackled and that packaging which can be reused by the distributor be encouraged by taking its cost off the consumer, and more, so that it no longer constitutes a cost, either economic or environmental.
it's that in the waste management hierarchy, before recycling comes reduction.
mr president, the scandal that has resulted from the knowledge of the automobile emissions cheating has shed some light on the standards by which these multinationals are governed.
the profit motive overrides the environment, health, ultimately, even human life, an eloquent portrait of capitalism.
the revelations now made that several manufacturers have used human and other primate guinea pigs to test the health effects of diesel engine emissions confirm that we are not dealing with isolated episodes but rather with a systemic problem, and for systemic problems only systemic solutions.
it is true that there are obstacles in the online environment that frustrate consumers' natural expectations, but working to overcome them should not make us lose sight of this larger picture.
madam president, commissioner, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 is a key objective to ensure the sustainability of the planet, the quality of the air, but also to give a new impetus to the modernisation of the european economy.
madam president, there is a problem at the starting point in the approach to the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which is the choice and insistence on a market approach which has clearly revealed not only its ineffectiveness but also its perversity.
the creation of a trade in pollution licences has laid the foundations for yet another multimillion-dollar scheme to generate fictitious financial assets, perhaps another speculative bubble ready to be inflated.
it has done nothing, and it is not doing anything, to achieve the desired reduction in greenhouse gases, especially if we want to achieve it within a framework of social justice and economic sustainability.
what would have been a wonderful incentive to adopt low-carbon technologies has become the biggest disincentive.
in view of its dependence on external supplies of fossil fuels and its commitment to digitisation and decarbonisation, the energy transition must be one of the sectors in which this leadership must be asserted and to which resources, talents and political determination must be channelled, not least because it calls for core knowledge such as mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, social sciences, and promotes the integration between digitisation and decarbonisation.
the european union has been ahead, but has unfortunately been losing ground in the energy transition.
we will continue to increase the investment in clean energy, but we have to do more than that.
clean energy is a mission and that mission is the mission of europe; we have to put it in words that people want to understand.
the other day in the committee on industry, research and energy one of the honourable members, claude turmes, gave great examples of that.
he said: ‘let’s achieve a zero-carbon city.
let’s achieve a zero-carbon chemical industry.
let’s achieve a zero-carbon boat’.
in a liberalized (and therefore tendentially concentrated) energy sector, dominated from production to distribution and consumption by the interests of large groups operating in an oligopoly, the assumptions, volumes, options and results of investment in innovation will certainly be different from those which can be obtained in a framework, which we advocate, of public, democratic control over this strategic sector.
it is in this framework that the challenges of sustainability and innovation can best be addressed, ensuring that the public interest prevails and safeguarding the future of the planet and its resources.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the areas of the environment, transport, energy, transport and energy, and the environment.
and these are goals that we all agreed on: supporting growth, supporting employment, acting to prevent and mitigate climate change, supporting sustainable growth and development and tackling new challenges, such as the issue of migration, by ensuring that investments in partner countries help political stability and that people have opportunities in their countries.
mr president, i would like to greet the vice-president of the commission, the president of the european investment bank and to highlight and also welcome all the work that the european investment bank has done, work that is fundamental for sustainable investment, both public and private investment.
here too, investment platforms are needed to complete the energy union, the digital agenda and, in this respect, platforms between member states are essential, and that is why we have reinforced the concept of additionality and also asked that the projects approved in the juncker plan take account of local reality.
at the time, it brought two great benefits: the enjoyment of the sunny day, synchronizing work with leisure, and the savings on the energy bill, which today is only marginal, as we all know.
in an increasingly competitive global context, the european union must make convergence the keyword in all its strategies: internal convergence to harness synergies and their full potential, and external convergence with the highest standards of innovation and sustainability.
this is the approach that will make the most of the budgetary resources made available by member states and of own resources, in particular those resulting from the collection in transnational value chains in the financial, environmental or digital fields.
from the content of the report, and in addition to the inclusion of the proposal for the creation of a positive incentive system for the post-2020 period, i would highlight two more of our proposals, which are the idea of the need for ambitious funding on cohesion policy, instead of the initial phrase 'adequate funding', and the idea that specific programmes, strategies and action plans should be created, that is, tailor-made for these regions through participatory and multi-level governance, in order to stimulate more effectively employment and growth and the sustainable development of the regions.
in this context, the european union needs to assert its own vision and its own way of life and to have a long—term strategy, which should be based on human dignity, fairness, democracy and a clear commitment to sustainable development.
yes, climate change is there, and we need to have a growth strategy driven by sustainable development goals.
i should say that we would be in a safer and more prosperous world today if the tpp with the united states and the ttip with europe and the united states were already in force or at least well in advance - yes, it could combat unfair, social and environmental competition in some markets, such as the chinese market, and not just another type of retaliation, such as this.
finally, i would like to say that i am sorry to note that the poor relative of this council is the energy union - only president juncker has spoken of it.
our position is clear in favour of increasing the financial envelope for the posei programme, which ensures the sustainability of agricultural production in the outermost regions and which needs to be strengthened in order to meet the enormous challenges facing them.
the proposals in the report safeguard europe's commitments to sustainable development, to the paris agreement and to the implementation of the social rights pillar, and advocate the same level of funding and greater effectiveness in the implementation of cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy.
i would highlight some of the priorities in the resolution, namely the strengthening of youth policies, including the doubling of support for youth employment and the tripling of funds for the erasmus programme, the protection of children at risk of poverty and exclusion, incentives for refugee host countries and the transition fund to support the conversion of the energy sector and decarbonisation.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has adopted a number of amendments.
since 1980, in addition to loss of life, member states of the european union have suffered more than eur 360 billion in damage due to extreme weather or climate events.
we need european-scale action to respond to climate change, to set new trade agreements, to make sure that we respond properly to the digital revolution and to the migration and refugee crises.
your words encourage us and give us the energy to continue the success and the results of these policies.
energy is a key issue.
in portugal, we have already achieved 60% of production with renewable energy and 30% of consumption with renewable energy.
but in order to share these natural conditions, it is essential that we do not delay the process of energy interconnections any further.
we must connect the iberian peninsula to the centre of europe, we must connect france, from france to germany, and the whole of europe, so that the whole of europe can benefit from the excess capacity for the production of renewable energy that naturally exists on the iberian peninsula and that can hardly exist, for purely natural reasons, in other regions of europe.
we need to have fewer eucalyptus trees, we need to have fewer pine trees and we need to have more cork oaks, we need to have more oak trees, we need to have more olive trees, we need to have trees that are fire-resistant and that are able to contribute to sustainable rural development.
i would therefore like to point out that intensive olive growing is also responsible for a real environmental crime because of the pressure on water use, soil depletion and contamination of the groundwater.
the meeting of acp fisheries ministers in the bahamas last september recognised the enormous economic and environmental losses due to illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing.
in addition, the comoros is home to a large population of coelacanths, a relic of biodiversity and of world value, a living fossil threatened by illegal fishing in that region of the indian ocean.
i would stress the need for the commission to promote intensively aid for the development of fisheries management and governance and marine biodiversity in the comoros.
in our view, the sustainable fisheries agreements concluded by the european union with other countries should be mutually beneficial.
mr president, holding climate summits to get governments to express concern about climate change and to feel good about themselves does not change anything.
consistent action is needed to meet the paris summit objectives, and it is not enough to count emissions.
it is also necessary to remove carbon dioxide already in the atmosphere.
this can only be achieved by protecting and restoring our forests, by seriously, without trickery and without hypocrisy, accounting for the emissions that occur there.
we can invent all sorts of schemes to avoid accounting for emissions or we can even pretend that everything is solved by a collection mechanism.
it is in this context that i once again call for the importance of reforestation to combat emissions, to reduce them.
the proposal for a european carbon tax is also proof of the farce that reducing emissions is a business for this house.
mr president, commissioner, greenhouse gas emissions also depend on land use, land use change, forests and their management.
in the process of defining a method for accounting for emissions associated with this sector, the interests of the large forest producers in the north prevailed over the specificities of the ecosystems in the south.
this creative accounting demonstrates the fragility of the european union's commitment to combating climate change, as does the insistence on a market approach, which has already been shown to be ineffective and perverse.
the new eu waste legislation that we are discussing here this evening will help to prevent waste and will turn much more waste into valuable resources.
in doing so, you would give a great push to further improving waste management in europe, in line with our circular economy goals.
this will unlock new sources of growth and innovation, create jobs and reduce our dependence on imports of critical raw materials and our reliance on waste treatment abroad, and it will of course help to protect our environment and thus the health of our citizens.
i do know that this house had its doubts when this commission in december 2014 withdrew previous proposals on waste.
parliament’s support was also crucial to agree on strong new rules on waste prevention, including food waste and marine litter, and you also helped to secure strong new rules on extended producer responsibility, the management of hazardous wastes and bio-waste, and the separate collection of waste.
finally, you also pushed very hard for an ambitious waste policy agenda during the coming years.
this agenda encompasses and reviews the many different pieces of existing eu legislation, ranging from reusability and recyclability of packaging waste, end-of-life vehicles, waste oils, food waste and waste disposal operations, as well as recycling targets for waste other than municipal and packaging waste.
unfortunately, the council could not agree on a single measurement point, yet the new legislation still marks a major step forward by ensuring that only waste that enters recycling will be reported under the targets.
i should finally mention that among the commission declarations that accompany the package are four declarations responding to points that were particularly important to this house: first, on the policy framework for the circular economy; second, on the collaborative economy; third on microplastics; and fourth, on the reporting of waste data in 2020. our shared task now is to ensure that the promises enshrined in this waste package are actually delivered on the ground.
the commission has actively pursued the follow-up to the fitness check on streamlining environmental reporting which aims at increasing transparency, optimising the use of it tools and reducing the administrative burden for all stakeholders.
before the end of may, we will present a legislative proposal to amend the reporting requirements in a number of environmental directives and regulations modelled on the proposals for the revision of the drinking water directive which you are currently discussing.
once properly implemented, the new eu waste legislation will make the european union the world leader in waste management.
mr president, commissioner, we agree with more ambitious targets for the recycling of packaging waste, but we must not lose sight of some issues.
in accordance with the principle of the waste hierarchy, prevention, reduction of packaging waste production and reuse of packaging, in that order, should take precedence over recycling.
it would therefore be justified for the european union to strengthen the means at the disposal of the member states to support them in the necessary investments, in particular those that are lagging behind in the field of waste management infrastructure.
it also leads the global commitment to the sustainability of the planet and the fight against climate change.
the circular economy is a necessary complement to the energy transition.
only through the implementation of this package will the eu be able to achieve levels of sustainability and competitiveness that will enable it to stand at the technological and social frontier of a changing world.
as one of the shadow rapporteurs, i advocated and proposed amendments to phase out landfilling to total elimination, to ban landfilling of waste that is subject to separate collection, to create a framework programme with a timetable of objectives, to monitor waste transfers within the eu and to third countries and to improve the quantification methodologies associated with landfilling.
madam president, the 7th environment action programme, the limited impact on the environment and the fragility of the resources allocated to it, particularly financial resources, show the low priority the european union has been giving to this area.
we are still faced with a fundamental mismatch between the declared environmental objectives and the content of the relevant sectoral policies, from agricultural to commercial policy, among others.
many of the recommendations made by this parliament before the establishment of this programme have not been implemented, for example in terms of adequate funding for the protection of biodiversity and forests, the strengthening of the life programme or the allocation of sufficient resources for the conservation of the values protected by the natura 2000 network.
now we also need to clarify that this dependence, these massive imports of soybeans, which are growing exponentially, have a source and that source is our intensive production model which is highly dependent on soybeans and compound feed, and therefore a sustainable strategy that seeks to combat this issue must of course take into account the need to revise this model.
in short, i would say that to try to create a sustainable strategy to combat our protein dependence while pursuing a free trade policy with third countries is hypocritical, because it puts our producers in a situation of inequality which naturally pushes them towards this unsustainable consumption of imported protein.
as has already been said here, on political issues, economic issues, trade issues, environmental issues, issues relating to the promotion of human rights, there are many points of view which coincide between the european union and australia, and therefore we must, in this specific historical circumstance, strengthen our links with australia.
we should ask whether it is possible for europe to become a leading continent in energy transition, in making the best of the digital revolution with full respect of privacy, and turning these into more and better jobs.
mr president, despite the tax scandals which have revealed to the world the ecosystem which promotes opacity and anonymity and which allows money laundering, the european union remains conditioned by the interests of large multinational companies.
mr president, this regulation has of course positive aspects, but it commits an original sin, which is to focus all its attention on the product, while omitting the social and environmental component associated with organic production.
i would like to conclude, commissioner, by advocating the strengthening of training measures on organic farming and by stressing the enormous importance of this new regulation for agricultural production in the outermost regions, which, as we know, is already sustainable and organic.
this brings about much needed improvement in the regulatory environment and framework for organic production in europe.
the organic production method is based on the principle of making agricultural production compatible with the promotion of biodiversity and the preservation of ecosystems.
in addition, organic farming has other virtues, such as protecting the health of consumers and promoting a more sustainable agricultural model, because it is based on small and medium-sized farming and family farming, as opposed to the agribusiness model based on intensive production and the high incorporation of synthetic chemical additives.
the focus is solely on the product, ignoring the social and environmental component that has always been associated with organic farming.
and it's good to remember that in 2017, 41 environmental rights defenders were murdered in the philippines.
this means that, if we know that our future will be reshaped by the digital revolution and the energy transition, we need to be bold on the transition towards aligning our budget but also on the way to finance this budget.
madam president, commissioner, despite all our efforts, we still have populations and regions in this union with few transport alternatives, which has negative implications for their sustainable economic development.
in the specific case of the outermost regions, given their excessive dependence on air transport, there is an urgent need to increase investment in the security of their airports, as is the case of madeira airport, which requires increased attention, largely due to climate change.
i have therefore already put a question to the commission and presented a pilot project to ensure that airport infrastructure in the outermost regions is given special attention to the cases of air pollution and climate change which are increasingly occurring.
it combines this with the need for europe to focus on sustainability by integrating mitigation of global warming into cohesion policy.
the transition to sustainable transport is thus a necessity that will contribute to the achievement of the european union's co2 emission reduction targets.
projects such as this, which enhance cohesion by combining new economic opportunities, environmental objectives and greater efficiency in the use of infrastructure, should be given unconditional support in the post-2020 strategy.
mr president, commissioners, this package, which aims to keep the european union at the technological frontier in this strategic industrial sector, is positive, it addresses key issues of safety, standardisation and regulation of automation and data exchange, and it extends the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions to trucks.
it seems to me that the possible and important basis has been laid for the plan of specific measures to be presented by the regional organisations, taking into account not only the sustainability of stocks but also the protection of sensitive species and, of course, the income of fishing communities with interests in this area of fishing.
i would again stress the possibility of creating a financial instrument that would provide specific support for the fisheries sector, for example by restoring the posei fisheries programme, with the capacity to effectively improve the potential of the outermost regions for sustainable commercial fishing.
we need a fairer policy, one which responds to challenges such as climate change, but above all we need an agricultural policy which persists in its common strand and which effectively meets the needs of farmers, because there is no agriculture and no rural world without farmers.
member states should continue to have a margin of manoeuvre in the first pillar of the cap to grant support linked to sectors of particular social, economic and environmental relevance.
mr president, generational renewal and knowledge transfer are fundamental to agriculture, because in this way we can bring in new people, new practices, new technologies and better ways of producing agricultural products at lower costs, with less risk to the environment, to human health and in a sustainable way.
nothing new, just the assumption of a long-held principle, now stripped of any social or environmental rhetoric.
while europe is facing a situation of under-investment, it needs an ambitious investment strategy driven by the sustainable development goals and a commitment to the social pillar.
so that means fires, floods, environmental accidents like nuclear or chemical accidents, earthquakes and other kinds of events.
it has been shown that civil protection based on a voluntary system of mutual assistance between member states alone is not enough to respond to the series of natural, environmental and man-made disasters we have seen in recent years.
if we want a europe united by values such as individual and social responsibility, tolerance, democracy, dialogue and sustainable growth, if we want a europe that can become a beacon of good practice and an example on a global scale, it is precisely in young people that we must invest.
mr president, global warming must be fought with clear and courageous decisions.
the european union has set a binding and ambitious target of at least 40% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in all sectors of the economy by 2030 and it is clear that the transport sector has a very important contribution to make to this target, and in particular heavy goods transport, given that a quarter of co2 emissions is due to this type of road transport.
co2 emissions and fuel consumption of new heavy duty vehicles entering the european union are not, as we all know, subject to certification, monitoring or reporting, as is already the case with light passenger and commercial vehicles.
i have been attacked for this as a shadow rapporteur in the group currently working on the trilogues for the negotiations on the energy union governance regulation.
this proposal lays down precise requirements for monitoring and reporting emissions, which will allow the establishment of a very positive, transparent database managed by the european environment agency and the annual report of the european commission will also be important.
this regulation is part of the european strategy for low-carbon mobility and is an important step towards the decarbonisation of transport, but we cannot lose sight of the fact, as has already been said here, that in the shortest possible time we must have clean and intelligent models of mobility and that these clean and intelligent models of mobility must also be applied to heavy duty vehicles.
this is another area where, in the interests of the health, sustainability and competitiveness of european industry, the european union must take a leading role on a global scale.
reducing dependence on wild fish for the food of farmed species, improving the yield of the activity, increasing food conversion, cultivating native species, including freshwater species, algae and herbivorous species, along with reducing the environmental impacts of the activity, are lines to be pursued in the development of aquaculture.
as it is becoming more widespread, it is necessary to know better the conditions under which this activity is carried out, to obtain more characterisation data, including on the number of fishermen and the most widely used gear, to assess the impact of the activity, the environmental impact on fisheries resources and the marine environment in general, the socio-economic impact in particular on small-scale, coastal and artisanal commercial fishing.
from this viewpoint, we need to go beyond the commission’s proposals, because if we want to support convergence, we should be clearly in favour of reforms, growth, increasing the sustainability of our social welfare systems, and coupling reforms with investments.
i voted in favour of this dossier because i believe that in order to meet the targets of the paris agreement, all sectors of activity must make their contribution and the reality is that the heavy-duty vehicle market is taking a long time to adapt to the new reality, which requires greater efficiency in the sector in order to meet the reduction in co2 emissions.
member states and the business sector that understand the priority of climate change are calling for reductions of the order of 24% in co2 emissions from heavy-duty vehicles.
we need more transparency in the monitoring and verification of co2 emissions and i welcome european harmonisation through the vecto test system for greater comparability between vehicles, using real-time measurements and independent laboratories being able to verify the data.
the divergence with the trump administration over the jcpoa is actually part of a deeper problem in transatlantic relations: trade wars, withdrawal from the climate agreement, from the global migration compacts, brazen interference against our union in european countries, supporting populist far-right policies.
it is the recognition that inefficient use of resources leads to environmental, social and economic damage.
in 2014, the european union produced 2.5 billion tonnes of waste.
it is therefore urgent to combat waste.
if we want a more sustainable europe, the circular economy must be a commitment, not just in the long term, but as a permanent goal.
it is also essential to combine different funding sources, including research, and it is worth recalling the privileged use of the environmental fund, which, for example, will fully support the circular economy agenda of one of the outermost regions of europe, the autonomous region of madeira.
in circular business, development and progress models are no longer based on profit alone, but on environmental protection.
this is not sustainable.
i think it is very good because, unlike some other reports, it contains a whole series of concrete measures which can help in the fight to protect the environment and in the fight to restore the resources we use.
the issue of plastics is a huge environmental problem today, and it's clear that no country can solve this problem on its own.
so i'm glad that this report passed, and we should have a big debate going forward about what to do to protect the environment and how to deal with waste, plastic waste, which i think is a huge environmental burden today.
mr president, i voted in favour of this motion because i believe that there is a clear urgency to promote the circular economy as one of the main measures to combat climate change.
in addition, the waste of some can and should be used as raw material for others.
in this spirit, i believe that we must give clear incentives to member states and regional and local authorities to invest in the bio-economy and in the reduction of waste through environmentally friendly solutions.
i think this must be the path that european citizens and member states must take, in unison, towards well-being, ultimately towards a more sustainable planet and leaving our children a better world than the one we have been left.
mr president, in a world marked by uncertainty and the fluidity of geopolitical relations, the negotiations of this eu-acp partnership agreement are an opportunity to set up a framework for cooperation based on respect for autonomy, human rights, the participation of civil society and sustainability, principles which are crucial for a humanistic and fair globalisation.
eu-acp cooperation must be a reference for the multiple partnerships the world needs, allocating resources that promote dignified and sustainable development, helping to reduce forced migration and the phenomena of extreme poverty and inequality that are eroding 21st century cities.
moreover, sustainable and widespread economic and social development in the territory is also part of a modern concept of defence.
indigenous peoples, especially vulnerable and unprotected in the context of globalisation and climate change, continue to be victims of murder, aggression, forced eviction from their ancestral lands, arbitrary detention, persecution and intimidation, racism and exclusion.
finally, we cannot underestimate the importance of these communities for the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity and for halting deforestation.
that is also why the european union must include them in its strategies for sustainable development and the fight against climate change.
madam president, commissioner, there is a very broad consensus today that the issue of climate change is one of the major problems facing humanity and that it can only be solved by a global response.
it is obviously a complex issue, not one that can be resolved immediately, but above all it is one that can only be properly addressed if there is a policy articulation at international level, which means that our diplomatic action must always take this climate issue into account.
in the 21st century, indigenous peoples continue to face discrimination and social exclusion, are threatened with property rights over their ancestral lands and resources, and are today particularly vulnerable to climate change.
i therefore believe that the european union must strengthen dialogue and consultation processes with indigenous communities and ensure that its trade, investment and cooperation policies respect the human and environmental rights of those communities and peoples.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been talking informally about climate refugees for more than ten years, and i am therefore pleased to have been able to vote in favour of a report which is intended to finally give greater visibility to the phenomenon and to call for a definitive definition by the united nations.
essentially unlike environmental migrants who move in search of better conditions, climate refugees find themselves without a home, without food, without basic living conditions, risking death from hunger, thirst and disease, all due to global phenomena caused by climate change.
instead of looking the other way and pretending that these situations don't exist and aren't typical, as has been done for the last ten years, it's time to take up our responsibility in climate diplomacy as europeans, leading this definition of refugees and creating the mechanisms necessary to protect these citizens.
it is perhaps going too far in the budgetary targets, it is falling short of what is needed in the measures for debt sustainability in the long term.
i am thinking of transport, energy, agri-food, the maritime sector, the pharmaceutical sector, sustainable tourism, a whole series of subjects where greece has comparative advantages to be claimed.
greece is ready to turn over a new leaf and is well equipped for ensuring sustainable, balanced and inclusive growth.
for those of you who expressed concerns over the success of the greek programmes ahead of us, i would urge you to think of the portuguese experience and of the subsequent waves of reforms that followed the exit of the programme in portugal and that guaranteed a sustainable success for the exit.
what, then, is to be said about the loss of control by greece and the european union of critical strategic infrastructures, such as piraeus port and the telecommunications and energy networks which greece had to sell to china as a result of the privatisation frenzy imposed by the neoliberal tracker programmes?
however, i voted in favour of the special category, that is, article by article, because the problem of deforestation has a global environmental impact and is now responsible for 11% of greenhouse gas emissions.
i therefore believe that the european union has a key role to play in establishing trade rules so that it does not condone the environmental barbarism committed in the name of business.
unfortunately, the unregulated commercial exploitation of the forest has had a devastating effect on both biodiversity and the lack of fire protection in areas reforested under monoculture.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
madam president, the european union has a strategic interest in relations with china and for this reason it must engage with beijing on all fronts, from global security to reciprocity in trade relations, climate agreements to sustainable development policies, data protection, cybersecurity, synthetic drugs and other forms of organised crime coming from or passing through china.
in the last ten years, china has invested over $318 billion in assets in europe and today controls critical infrastructure, ports, energy networks, telecommunications, even defense and security technology companies in greece, my country, portugal, and other member states.
it is indeed true that the time for european sovereignty has come, and it has come at the forefront of the response to climate change, the digital revolution, trade, the need to manage migration differently.
the forces of the status quo think it's a good thing that we've had a resurgence in employment in europe and in investment, but the progressive forces want more because we need investment on a much larger scale to drive the energy transition and to drive the digital revolution in a good way.
we may not yet have solved the problem of the sustainability of music and the press in the digital age, but this directive will certainly go a long way towards correcting this injustice.
first of all, let me make the point that the best way to have a sustainable pension system is to have a very high employment rate and good quality jobs.
then, let me also underline, in the middle of the discussion about the outcomes of migration, that migration, if it is properly managed, can make a positive contribution to the sustainability of the pension system.
mr president, the excessive production of waste and waste is inseparable from the current patterns of production and consumption.
challenging the excessive production of waste and waste, including single-use plastics, necessarily requires challenging these production and consumption models.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution, and it is not the commission's intention to take any action to combat it.
in this area too, a regulatory approach should be given priority over a market approach, and reuse and recycling, for example in packaging, should be promoted alongside waste reduction.
finally, scientific research and technological development also play an important role in the search for more sustainable alternatives to current materials.
the truth is that, taken together, these characteristics have promoted the environmental disaster that we now recognize and that is so well exposed in this report.
the fact is that because of human irresponsibility in the use and disposal of plastic material, we are now experiencing the global drama of ocean pollution with impacts on biodiversity that add to the already difficult consequences of climate change.
this issue must be kept on the global agenda of climate diplomacy and more ambitious action in europe's trade relations with third countries must be taken immediately.
madam president, the debate on the problem of plastics and their impact on the environment is a global problem, but one that the european union has been leading.
madam president, commissioner, the definition of one health has expanded the concept of human health to include other factors which influence it, such as animal health and the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
i would stress that the pollution of water and soil by antibiotics for human and veterinary use is a growing problem for the environment itself and that special attention should be paid to this.
the legislative proposal under discussion therefore contributes to the development of the digital single market, encourages innovation and research, promotes a european health information network and, above all, contributes, or can contribute, to improving the health care provided to citizens in a widespread and budget-sustainable way.
the informed decision of healthcare professionals, patients and funders must be based on sound scientific arguments for the future sustainability of healthcare systems.
now that we are thinking of applying to other sectors - such as energy, education and others that have already been mentioned here - i think we should also talk about the concerns and why we are asking for legislation and the need for legislation in this regard.
territorial development objectives supported by strategies for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth for our cities and in particular for our medium-sized cities, for our regions, sub-regions and municipalities, must always take account of the specificities of the most central urban reality, the surrounding urban fabric and the most remote rural and outlying territories of these same centres.
to give substance to this mobilizing idea, it is important to take measures that make citizens feel more protected at various levels, including access to social rights, employment, health, education, physical security and protection against new emerging environmental and digital risks.
we are convinced that this treaty can take us to a new level in regulating globalisation, and can pave the way for a responsible and sustainable globalisation, starting with guarantees of access to justice and redress.
mr president, we must achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 and improve the quality of life of our citizens now.
how the european institutions, national governments and the car industry deal with the emissions challenge will be a barometer of their ability to take technological and economic leadership in a sector that our competitors are hard at work to compete with.
european industry must be an ally in the energy transition if it is to be globally competitive.
it is not wise to set environmental objectives against the competitiveness of industry and its ability to maintain and create sustainable jobs.
indeed, if european industry does not adapt to the new environmental challenges, it may survive in the short term, but it is doomed.
by contrast, taking the moment to lead the transition to new industrial models and respond to new mobility systems will ensure its long-term survival and competitiveness, creating wealth, jobs and better environmental conditions.
in paris, we committed to cutting by 2030 40% of total greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990. by 2015, all sectors had reduced their emissions except the transport sector, which, on the contrary, increased them by 20%.
in 2015, road transport alone accounted for 72% of emissions, with 44% coming from light vehicles.
the decarbonisation of transport is urgent, and let us not forget that self-regulation has been ineffective and state control has been insufficient for a sector where emissions results have even been forged.
mr president, the management of innovation and the pace of large-scale application of new technologies must be guided by the defence of the public interest, the improvement of the quality of life of the population and the preservation of the environment.
so too with car emissions.
but it is a real danger that must be fought with the utmost energy.
it is on the basis of this evaluation that pricing and sharing can be established, which is of paramount importance for the sustainability of health systems.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because the environment cannot wait any longer.
emission targets must be ambitious if we are to reverse the calamitous global warming caused by greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. we have to set a value at least above 40%.
it is time to give a strong political signal that clearly indicates a trajectory away from fossil fuels, a commitment to electricity technologies from renewable energy sources and a demand for greater transparency in emissions measurements.
in addition to reduced emissions, they bring more competitiveness to european industry, they bring more jobs and they bring less dependence on oil imports.
they should contribute to member states promoting policies of innovation, green and circular economy, sustainable and inclusive growth.
we regret, however, the disappointing pace at which many member states have transposed the directives, even leading to infringement proceedings, and we are aware that many of the criticisms point to a protectionist approach, the difficult access and understanding for small and mediumsized enterprises, the lack of transparency and the fact that the only award criterion seems to be the lowest price, rather than, for example, social and environmental criteria which are strategic for the communities.
i believe we have come up with a good report, which sets out the right approach to efficient, effective and competitive public procurement, which responds to the challenges facing the sector today and which makes a strategic contribution to achieving objectives such as innovation, social inclusion and economic and environmental sustainability.
mr president, public procurement is - and should be - an important instrument for states to defend and promote their productive fabric, quality and decent employment, environmental protection, among other strategic objectives.
very quickly, my dear colleague, i am indeed aware in my assessment here of the package of legislation that was adopted in 2014. despite all the rhetoric that permeates it in defence of small and mediumsized enterprises, as is the case with many other european union legislation, the truth is that it is tailored to the interests of large companies precisely because it is subject to this logic of free competition in the single market, because they are the ones who, in free competition in the single market, are effectively dominating that market and do not forget, do not forget, because it is very important, that the station is combined with the dismantling of public services in water, postal services, energy, as is now also being done in health and is being done in health to open these areas precisely to public procurement.
i would like to thank all colleagues for their contributions and underline three points: first, i think there is a great deal of consensus on the broad objectives of this initiative, the idea that with this instrument we will promote more transparency and fight corruption, we will ensure fair competition and we will have instruments to pursue the objectives of innovation, of green and circular economy and of sustainable and inclusive growth, the idea that here we also have to have social criteria.
according to the commission, 55% of public procurement procedures still use the lowest price as the only award criterion, without considering any social, economic sustainability or environmental protection criteria in these decisions.
(applause)
mr president, commissioners, i have not tired of saying that the fight against climate change must be a global priority.
the intergovernmental panel on climate change has already shown that we should aim for a limit of 1.5 degrees celsius, not 2, so that the impacts we are subject to are less severe.
we must lead by example and put national interests aside so that we can demand that everyone at the negotiating table give this commitment to the environment the urgency it needs.
the conference on climate change, cop 24, is another one that is held without questioning the perversity and ineffectiveness of market instruments such as carbon trading.
environmental objectives are being overtaken by business, even the buying and selling of pollution rights.
with regard to the conference on biological diversity, cop 14, it is curious that there is talk here of new financial instruments for biodiversity, not to mention the absence, up to now, more than twenty-five years ago, of a community instrument dedicated to financing the management and conservation of the natura 2000 network.
limiting global warming under the terms of the paris agreement can mean the difference between life and death for people and ecosystems and is also crucial for the preservation of biodiversity.
it is therefore necessary to set more ambitious targets and to channel more funding towards biodiversity conservation.
as shadow rapporteur for the energy governance regulation, which will be voted on at the next plenary here in strasbourg, i have sought to ensure that the 2030 climate targets of the energy union will be achieved through coherent and flexible policies.
there's a good climate, a good environment.
on the contrary, it has disastrous impacts on the environment, on biodiversity, on the health of ecosystems and, absurd and contradictory as it may seem, on the quality of everyday life.
it is therefore very important to harmonize this proposal with the directive on the reception of waste in port areas.
mr president, commissioner, we talk about pollution in the oceans and the first thing that comes to mind is drifting plastic.
consumption has to be more sustainable and it goes through a greater consumer awareness, to the preference for reusable materials, to the correct way to dispose of waste and to the extreme need to use disposables that have an option for biodegradable materials safely in the aquatic environment.
we need to find sustainable solutions, including investing in ocean cleanup through waste collection and recycling.
plastic doesn't belong in the environment, nor in the landfill.
complying with the circulation of the economy and taking the proper value of this waste to reduce its environmental footprint is essential.
as a public good, i advocate standards of quality and waste prevention that are only achievable through the ethical exploitation of water.
when it comes to climate change, this means having an ambitious strategy for a low-carbon economy.
second, the lisbon treaty could pool sovereignty where this is needed: when we address climate change; when we negotiate trade agreements; when we affirm our monetary sovereignty.
mr president, promoting the use of clean and energy-efficient road transport vehicles is a priority, but the priority requires that public authorities take on increased responsibility for the use of road transport.
secondly, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in line with the targets set in the paris agreement and, finally, to boost european industry towards the technological transition by creating more and better working conditions.
the presidency will provide a progress report to the competitiveness council, as well as to the environmental council.
the presidency would like to join the calls on the european chemicals agency, as well as on member states, to show that they are serious about protecting human health and the environment.
it was designed to address the knowledge gap on the chemicals manufactured and used in europe and to speed up risk reduction strategies for those substances that are harmful for health and harmful for the environment.
in these registration dossiers, the companies must detail the impact of the chemicals on human health and the environment, and how to manage those risks.
based on the findings of the reach review, i strongly believe that reach has already contributed to the protection of eu citizens’ health and the environment, but there is much more work needed to be done to improve implementation.
the evaluation carried out by the german federal institute for risk assessment and the german environment agency concluded that the number of substances complying with the criteria for biotic and abiotic grading of bioaccumulation and ecotoxicity never exceeded 50%.
one third of the large-volume chemicals manufactured or imported into the union since 2010 do not comply with the rules aimed at protecting health and the environment.
we are talking about mutagenic substances with environmental toxicity that affect biodiversity and with human toxicity that can induce health problems such as metabolic, oncological and endocrine diseases.
mr president, according to a study recently published by the german environment agency, since 2010 one third of chemicals produced or imported into the european union have violated european standards to protect public health or the environment.
we have adequate and world-class health and environmental protection rules.
this is a great strategic opportunity for the economy, for the environment, for the quality of life.
as shadow co-rapporteur for the energy union governance, i would like to leave a very special word to my colleague theresa griffin, who has been with me in a stimulating work to strengthen the inclusive, sustainable and innovative dimension of the new european energy policy.
they may not have been the most ambitious, but they are important to meet: 32.5% in energy efficiency, 32% in renewables by 2030. the implementation of the ten-year plans, the comparability of these plans, the coverage of the five dimensions of the energy union is very important.
i also stress the introduction of long-term strategies, with the climate strategy, so that we can align progress with the paris agreement.
it is very important that citizens, regions, feel that there is a sense of justice in the energy transition, of win-win for all in a fair way, strengthening regional cooperation between member states and between them and the union.
the main and ultimate objective of the common fisheries policy is that the activity be carried out in the most sustainable way possible, not only from an economic point of view but also from a social, economic and environmental point of view.
climate change, the digital revolution, but also tackling social inequality and reducing poverty.
debating the future of europe is responding to the aspirations of 500 million citizens, but it is also defending the planet, the future of the planet, its sustainability, the fight against inequalities, less poverty, better trade agreements.
the campaign environment has become tense, however, with an escalation of polarized attacks.
madam president, when i was a member of the european parliament's committee of inquiry into car emissions, there was one number that particularly struck me.
therefore, decarbonising transport is a citizens' imperative for economic, environmental and public health reasons.
heavy goods vehicles are responsible for 6% of total carbon dioxide emissions in the eu.
we need to have a significant share of new, low-emission heavy-duty vehicles to reduce emissions in this sector by 35%.
we must aim to lead in innovative technologies for reducing emissions in transport to meet the paris agreement, but above all to improve the quality of life of european citizens.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report once again after the committee on the environment had adopted by a large majority the best compromise, which simultaneously advocates convergence with the ecological targets set by the paris agreement and the protection of social interests and which, moreover, also brings economic benefits.
the co2 correction factor for alternative high-performance fuels is already covered by the renewable energy directive ii.
mrs president, commissioner, persistent organic pollutants, of which perhaps the most media-worthy are ddt and dioxins, as the name suggests, persist in the environment, contaminating natural habitats and are highly toxic to us, humans, and other living beings.
today they are aggravated by the dire effects of climate change, in particular droughts and floods.
while imperfect, mainly because it excludes iran's ballistic missile test programme, the jcpoa is a landmark instrument of multilateral diplomacy and an important milestone for global nuclear disarmament, as evidenced by 12 consecutive reports by the international atomic energy agency monitoring iran's compliance with its nuclear-related obligations.
there is a problem at the heart of the european union's approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions: the choice and insistence on a market approach which has clearly revealed not only its ineffectiveness but also its perversity.
the creation of a trade in pollution permits has done nothing and will do nothing to achieve the desired reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, especially if we want to achieve this in a fair and sustainable framework.
leaving environmental objectives in the hands of the market which could and should be achieved by other means will undoubtedly be useful for some, but harmful to the environment and to people.
we are still faced with a fundamental mismatch between the declared environmental objectives and the content of the relevant sectoral policies - from agricultural policy to trade policy, among others.
the creation of a trade in pollution permits has done nothing and will do nothing to achieve the desired reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, especially if we want to achieve this in a fair and sustainable framework.
leaving environmental objectives in the hands of the market which could and should be achieved by other means will undoubtedly be useful for some, but harmful to the environment and to people.
we are still faced with a fundamental mismatch between the declared environmental objectives and the content of the relevant sectoral policies - from agricultural policy to trade policy, among others.
the european commission's communication 'a clean planet for all', which is being debated today, is extremely timely and follows the presentation by the international energy agency of very pessimistic forecasts on the degree of global compliance with the paris agreement, which considered that even the best efforts of the eu may not be enough to contain the increase in emissions that is occurring, especially in asia.
the communication stresses the importance of rapid implementation of the clean energy package and the ambitious completion of the ongoing institutional negotiations on clean mobility.
it is important to underline that the communication 'a clean planet for all' aims to be a pillar of a long-term strategic vision that will enable the european union to make a sustainable and just transition to a prosperous, modern, competitive and decarbonised economy.
the european union is now well equipped with the conceptual tools and is in the process of acquiring the legislative tools needed to aim for a position favourable to people, the economy and the environment in the energy transition process.
mr president, the life programme is a fundamental instrument of the union's policy for the protection of the environment, biodiversity and adaptation to climate change.
since 1992, it has funded almost 4 000 projects in the european union, contributing over eur 3 billion to environmental protection.
the programme leverages projects in the area of nature and biodiversity, circular economy and quality of life, climate change mitigation and adaptation, and the transition to clean energy.
life has contributed to the union objective by allocating 25% of its resources to climate change adaptation and mitigation objectives.
it is also good that the potential impacts on animal health and the environment are taken into account in the risk assessment.
human health is not only about managing direct risks, but also about the environment in which it is embedded.
as finance minister, the budget is historic and as president of the eurogroup, the portuguese budget, he believes, calls into question the sustainability of portugal's path.
i would not be standing here as rapporteur supporting this eu—japan agreement if it were not a progressive trade agreement: an agreement clearly belonging to a new generation of trade agreements, in which sustainable development matters and environment, labour rights and consumer protection matter.
of course, there is no such thing as a perfect agreement, but this agreement recognises the un sustainable development goals.
it is the first trade agreement with a reference to the paris agreement on climate change and it fully respects public services and the right to regulate.
moreover, it includes not only a commitment to pursue the ratification of the core international labour organisation (ilo) conventions but also a review clause for improving the enforceability of labour and environmental rules.
japan, it is fair to say, has made substantial efforts, even before the entry into force of the agreement, and it is already discussing at inter—ministerial level the implementation of its sustainable development commitments.
furthermore, it clearly represents a step forward on sustainable development.
japan is a strong democracy that shares our values, and together we stand for fair trade, free trade and sustainable trade, based on multilateral rules – and you all know that they are under question today.
others say that this agreement is only about free trade: on the contrary, this is a sound economic partnership agreement with a sustainable development chapter and important and binding environmental, labour and consumer-protection provisions.
i think, on the contrary, that we have good reasons to be in favour of this agreement, because it is economically important, it is strategically important, it is a step forward regarding sustainable development, and it gives us a chance, as parliament, to send a clear message in favour of the progressive and full use of the agreement’s potential.
we support ngos and human rights and environmental defenders, but we need to be more assertive in bilateral dialogues, reinforcing the training of those who work in these organisations, so that they can help in some way in the transition to democratic regimes.
it is important that the european parliament's draft report reinforces the need to secure funding for the horizon europe programme, funding of eur 120 billion in the period 2021-2027. the compatibility of the programme with the millennium development goals and the paris agreement commitments to combat global warming should be highlighted.
35% of horizon europe funding shall be used for measures with a favourable impact on climate action.
the timing of this debate is apt, given that international climate negotiators are currently gathered at cop24 in katowice in poland, discussing, inter alia, solidarity and ‘just transition’.
the silesia declaration underlines that a just transition of the workforce and the safeguarding and creation of sustainable employment and decent work are crucial to ensuring public support for long—term emission reductions.
you are all aware of the enormous scale and urgency of the challenge that climate change poses to humankind.
if left unconstrained, climate change will lead to large-scale and irreversible negative consequences for our environment and ecosystems, and for our economies.
action against climate change is more urgent than ever.
the paris agreement sets the goal of achieving net—zero greenhouse gas emissions globally in the second half of this century.
the eu has long been at the forefront of the global response to climate change.
it already has in place a legislative framework for reducing its greenhouse gas emissions up to 2030 and it has managed successfully to decouple greenhouse gas emissions from economic growth since the 1990s.
according to the paris agreement, all parties are to present long-term, low-greenhouse-gas-emission development strategies by 2020. on 28 november, responding to calls by the council and parliament to present a long-term strategy for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the commission published a communication on a long—term strategy for the european union.
it outlines a vision of the economic and societal transformations required, while also seeking to ensure that the transition to net—zero greenhouse gas emissions is socially fair.
discussions of the long-term strategy within the council have already started and, before the end of our presidency, it will be debated by ministers responsible for energy at the council meeting scheduled for 19 december, and by those responsible for the environment on 20 december.
the challenges posed by global climate change will require huge economic and societal transformation, which includes the continuing modernisation of european industries and economies with, notably, a transition to clean energy systems.
just transition is an imperative that was included in the paris agreement to ensure that the consequences for the workforce of climate change measures in regions and communities which stand to be particularly affected by them are taken into account.
some regions, globally and in europe, are more dependent than others on carbon-intensive industries or on coal mining.
the transition towards low—carbon and climate—resilient economies and societies should ensure a just transition of the workforce, with the creation of decent work and quality jobs for all.
while many sectors, cities and regions which are highly reliant on fossil fuels and high-emitting industries face undeniable challenges, the transition to climate—resilient economies also has the potential to create additional employment opportunities.
according to a report published by the international labour organisation (ilo), this year, jobs created in renewable energy, building efficiency and other low—carbon industries can more than offset job losses in other sectors.
the silesia declaration mentions the importance of the ilo guidelines for a just transition towards environmentally sustainable economies and societies for all, and emphasises that the un 2030 agenda and its sustainable development goals confirm the need to tackle environmental, social and economic problems in a coherent and creative manner.
just transition is finding its way into important pieces of eu legislation on climate and energy policy.
with the inclusion of just transition as one of the investment priorities of the new modernisation fund, the revised emissions trading system (ets) directive will play an important role in supporting regions in 10 low-income member states, which are dependent on carbon-intensive industries, during their move towards a low—carbon economy.
in addition, the revised directive highlights the use of auction revenues by member states for the purpose of promoting skills formation and the reallocation of labour in order to contribute to a just transition to a low—carbon economy, in particular in regions most affected by the jobs transition.
while we are debating the issue today in strasbourg, the un climate conference – the cop24 – is taking place in katowice.
katowice is a city in poland’s region of silesia, one of europe’s most coal-intensive regions and, as such, silesia perfectly illustrates the social economic challenges, but also opportunities, of transition to a low—carbon economy.
this is why cop24 started last week by signing the silesia declaration on solidarity and just transition, a declaration endorsed by the european union as a whole and 20 eu member states individually, a declaration which stresses that environmental and social developments must go hand—in—hand.
our european climate policy is the most forward-looking in the world.
we aim to reduce our emissions by at least 40% by 2030, but the paris agreement requires us to look further into the future.
two weeks ago, we published our proposal for the european union’s long-term strategy, a long—term strategy on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, and the proposal shows how europe can lead the way to climate neutrality by 2050 by investing in technological solutions, by empowering citizens, by taking action in industrial policy finance and research, and by ensuring social fairness.
we need to decisively tackle climate change, and there are more benefits besides those clearly related to environment and health.
in europe, the clean energy sector has created roughly four million jobs; investments into industrial modernisation, energy transformation, the circular economy and clean mobility will create more and better jobs.
lastly, transition may affect most those who can afford it least – those who can’t invest in energy efficiency or low-carbon solutions.
the success of the transition to the low-carbon economy depends on the support of our citizens; it should be seen not as a pet project of the elites.
social fairness should be part of all our climate policies, right from the start.
our proposal for the new mff has a strong focus on investment and innovation, with programmes such as horizon europe, the invest europe fund, the european regional and development fund, and the dedicated modernisation and innovation funds under the eu emissions trading system.
for example, last year we launched the coal regions in transition initiative to facilitate green transition in 41 coal— and carbon—intensive regions located in 12 member states.
climate change is a fact, and that’s why we are ambitious in our goals, and that’s why we are planning for the long term.
a safer planet, after all, is one on which we know how to preserve its biological diversity as well as its fragile environmental balances.
we are living, madam commissioner, madam president, in an age of energy and digital transition which is shaping a technological revolution.