the joint communication on international ocean governance is an integral part of the eu response to the united nations 2030 agenda for sustainable development goals (sdgs), in particular sdg 14. it sets out 50 concrete and tangible actions in three priority areas for safe, secure, clean and sustainably managed oceans.
in this regard, i very much welcome last month’s decision by the un general assembly on a resolution to convene an intergovernmental conference to elaborate the text of an internationally legally binding instrument under united nations convention on the law of the sea (unclos), on marine biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction, which the european union has championed for many years.
pressures and causes such as marine litter, the consequences of climate change, such as a rise in sea level, warming and acidification, as well as ensuring the sustainable use of the oceans and their biodiversity, merge into this priority.
promoting maritime spatial planning and our marine environmental legislation at regional and global level is key in this regard, and i am very pleased to see your support on this issue.
we are working with several countries on programmes that support sustainable fisheries, marine protected areas and coastal zone management, climate mitigation in the maritime shipping sector, harbour infrastructure and even maritime security.
these actions, whether they are stricto sensu related to the ocean governance framework, or to pressures on the marine environment, marine security and research, are all part of a holistic approach.
while recalling the crucial part that oceans, along with coastal and marine resources, play in supporting life on earth and in social and economic development worldwide, i would like to also emphasise that they represent in fact our strongest allies against climate change, with a vital role in the global climate system.
however, as widely acknowledged, the environmental health of the oceans is in great peril, which calls for strongly coordinated efforts.
therefore, i fully welcome the proposed actions within the report, which reflect the eu’s commitment towards the objective set out in sdg (sustainable development goal) 14 of the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development, that of achieving the conservation and sustainable use of oceans, seas and marine resources, and to the fulfilment of which, we as a champion of the fight against climate change, have an essential contribution to bring.
– madam president, on behalf of the commission, let me thank parliament for preparing this important report on women, gender equality and climate justice.
let me start by emphasising that gender equality matters in its own right, and that it matters for effective climate action and sustainable development.
women are disproportionately vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, where their rights and socioeconomic status are not equal to those of men, and where they have less voice and influence than men in shaping policies and prioritising how climate finance is used.
the empowerment of women is an important ingredient in building climate resilience and, as pointed out in the resolution, women are primary agents of change and effective risk managers.
the european union is already committed to promoting a gender perspective in climate policies, both domestically and internationally, and to supporting women’s engagement and gender equality in the international negotiations under the united nations convention on climate change (unfccc).
the european union’s stance in climate negotiations has been, and continues to be, that the full and equal participation of women in climate negotiations and in the design of climate action is key.
the eu delegation in climate talks also comprises over 50% women, and two out of three leading eu negotiators are women.
by supporting the implementation of gender—related decisions and mandates under the convention, this gender action plan seeks to advance women’s full, equal and meaningful participation and promote gender—responsive climate policy and the mainstreaming of a gender perspective in the work of parties.
and fifth, monitoring and reporting, all supported by a list of proposed activities such as workshops for policymakers on gender—responsive policies and holding a dialogue with the standing committee on finance on its work to improve gender—sensitive access to climate finance.
the empowerment of women and upscaling climate action are also central in our development cooperation efforts.
we implement targeted measures to tackle gender inequalities and climate change issues in our partner countries, while also mainstreaming gender equality and climate change perspectives into all aspects of our development policy.
gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls are recognised as a cross-cutting driver for sustainable development in the new european consensus on development and the eu gender action plan 2016—2020.
the eu’s global climate change alliance plus flagship initiative supports climate action in different areas, including by empowering women and addressing gender issues in the context of climate change and climate-induced migration.
the global climate change alliance plus is embarking on further gender mainstreaming in its programmes and taking a leadership role for other eu climate funding instruments.
at the same time, we are ready to further increase our efforts on the ground to promote the equal rights of women in our partner countries to participate in, and directly influence, decision—making processes on climate and environmental issues as well as resilience building.
closely linked to these is the key role women have in sustainable energy.
they are actors of change, but are regrettably at the centre of the negative impacts of non-sustainable energy consumption.
the eu’s new action, women and sustainable energy, worth eur 20 million, will foster women’s active role in sustainable energy, specifically through actions promoting women’s entrepreneurship, training and economic empowerment in the sustainable energy sector in developing countries.
finally, as most of you have noted, the report also refers to the increased migration that may occur as a result of climate change.
after mid—2018, it will move to the phase of developing recommendations for approaches to avert, minimise and address displacement related to climate change impacts.
the commission is aware of the importance of also mainstreaming gender in its internal climate policies.
we welcome the suggestion made in the resolution to support the development of indicators and collect gender—disaggregated data when planning, implementing, monitoring and evaluating climate change policies, programmes and projects.
last but not least, let me once again welcome this report by the european parliament and congratulate the rapporteur, ms engström, on her work on this important topic of climate change and gender equality.
i congratulate the rapporteur and i will vote on this report because even in climate change we unfortunaelty see a difference between women and men.
women are the ones who care for children in the event of climate calamities and climate change.
more jokingly, more seriously, if we make an analogy between the european union and global warming, then mass migration phenomena are analogous to extreme weather phenomena.
and if one cause of global warming is the concentration and intensification of industrial activities, then, by analogy, the centralization and polarization of the union are clear causes of migration phenomena.
the international atomic energy agency has confirmed in all its reports that iran is fully complying with its commitments.
it is high time for all forces in kenya to show political maturity and to come together to lay the preconditions for an environment conducive to constructive dialogue in order to address the many challenges the country faces today.
the eu needs to strive for an effective application of sustainable trade clauses included in our free trade agreements (ftas), and our citizens expect us to turn theory into practice in line with the eu agenda for jobs and growth.
the provisions of existing trade and sustainable development (tsd) chapters already include a comprehensive set of binding provisions.
these are based on multilateral norms, respecting the relevant ilo conventions and multilateral and environmental agreements.
i strongly believe that the eu can make a difference in the essential fields of labour rights and environmental protection, amongst others, and also through its tsd chapters in our ftas.
the way forward is to consolidate these chapters and to strive for the more effective and sustainable implementation of this important pillar in our value—based trade policy.
mr president, i salute the commissioner’s initiative on promoting a sustainable trade approach.
as we already know from previous successful experience, a free trade agreement (fta) is the perfect entry door for many other policies, programmes and areas of eu interest, such as human and workers’ rights or environmental issues.
before the new year, a new headquarters for putin's internet trolls was inaugurated, a conducive environment for propaganda.
the kremlin’s propaganda is targeting very concrete files, such as the energy file and, using the old, but effective, strategy of divide et impera.
i firmly believe that the union as a whole will not be able to compete with the united states or china if it cannot provide young people with the conditions in which to unleash their energy and creativity.
secondly, the initiative is designed to complement other measures taken at member state level, so i encourage member states to make a more ambitious commitment, both financially and in terms of developing quality and, above all, sustainable programmes.
madam president, mr vice-president, since the publication of the green paper on the plastics strategy in 2013, we have tackled a major problem that seriously endangers the environment and the health of europeans.
the alarming figure of eight million tonnes of plastic waste dumped into our oceans every year calls for action.
combating pollution by increasing the life span of plastics and their recyclability, promoting biodegradable plastics and empowering consumers are steps in the right direction.
i am thinking in particular of single-use plastics, which can be replaced quickly by cardboard or recycled paper-based materials, and which are sustainable alternatives.
the strategy states that between 70 and 105 billion euros are wasted every year in unrecycled plastic waste.
you also refer to the environmental damage caused by marine litter or the incineration of plastic waste.
every year, millions of tons of plastic waste are generated, with a polluting impact on the environment that is difficult, if not impossible, to eliminate.
the european union has not made sufficient progress in research and reducing citizens' exposure to toxic substances, although it is obliged to do so under the seventh environment action programme.
madam president, while acknowledging that plastic is an important material for our economy and daily lives, serious threats emerge when plastics end up in the environment, especially in the oceans and in the seas, where they have an impact on nature, the climate and human health.
therefore, we have to bring strong capabilities in order to tackle this worrying issue and to frame a robust strategy for improving the economics, quality and rate of plastic recycling and reuse, especially when plastic production is expected to almost quadruple by 2050. i therefore fully welcome the first ever europe-wide strategy on plastics, which would ensure that the design and production of plastics and plastic products fully match the use, repair and recycling needs, and that more sustainable materials are developed and promoted, while laying the foundations for a new plastic economy and bringing new opportunities for innovation, competitiveness and job creation.
madam president, i welcome this very important report which highlights that high-quality professional services and an effective regulatory environment are of utmost importance for preserving the eu’s economic, social and cultural model and for boosting the competitiveness of the european union.
there can be no sustainable development without a fair justice system and without freedom of expression for all.
we also have the brexit agreement with the uk, we have problems with switzerland, but the disagreement between norway and the european union is causing economic damage, of course, and an environmental dimension.
concerning this important issue, and especially the testing of emissions on animals and human beings, do you not think that it is now time that we should promote, within the european union, legislation on research ethics for such conditions?
by seeking to effectively implement the single market, not only for goods, but also for services, digital commerce, capital and energy, we would create 4 million new jobs for our citizens, while adding approximately 1.5 billion to the eu economy.
accelerating the transition to a competitive low-carbon economy is both an urgent need and a tremendous opportunity for europe, and innovation is key.
the own-initiative report 'accelerating clean energy innovation' calls for an energy innovation policy that is consistent with the paris agreement and the eu's energy and climate change objectives.
as the objective of the commission communication is to establish a strategy for the policy levers that the eu can deploy to stimulate private investment in clean energy innovation, this report invites the commission to consider the energy dimension as a horizontal part of the eu industrial policy and to introduce energy efficiency as a horizontal, cross-cutting priority, applied to all business sectors.
stimulating energy innovation is possible by centring the energy system on the user, by considering social aspects relevant to energy innovation, by cooperation of all parties involved in this process and by a substantial increase in financial resources for the development and adoption of innovative clean energy solutions.
that is the only way out of the conflict in a sustainable manner.
the military operation against the kurdish majority enclave of afrin risks jeopardising the peace talks in geneva, which remain the only possible way forward for a sustainable and lasting peace in syria.
we need a new approach for equitable and sustainable well-being - in all member states - and the european pillar for social rights or the youth guarantee are great examples of how we can bring real change.
i wish we all joined efforts and energy to celebrate romania.
under the watchful eyes of the european institutions and the member states, a part of the romanian political environment risks taking a significant step back from the path towards the finalization of european integration, trying to remove the romanian state from the notable progress made under the cooperation and verification mechanism.
mr president, i would like first of all to congratulate the rapporteur, ms gardiazabal rubial, for managing to make this a progressive tool for promoting sustainable development and the 2030 agenda for sustainable development as objectives.
the guarantee fund for external actions is part of the external investment plan, as well as the european fund for sustainable development, which was already voted on in plenary in july 2017. the european investment bank (eib) establishes a coherent, integrated framework to foster investment in africa and the european neighbourhood, with the aim of promoting decent job creation and inclusive and sustainable development.
we have seen that we have to do more for infrastructure in those countries – healthcare, education, electricity and waste infrastructure – and in terms of helping the host communities, making sure that smes, not only in capitals but also in regions, have access to credit.
– i think we have found a good compromise in the framework of this report, in which we said that tackling climate change is an important objective.
it is a political objective of the union; the eib is the bank of the european union; we are working together with them to achieve climate change.
in parallel, of course, we should work on developing infrastructure within the member states of the union and in our immediate neighbourhood – that meaning energy, digital, road, railways – but, of course, always with this overarching objective in mind that, together, we need to tackle climate change.
the argument from 2000 that changing the time helps us save energy is no longer valid, especially as other energy efficiency measures are already widely implemented in all eu member states.
mr president, commissioner, one of the arguments against the tap pipeline and the use of gas in general is that it is harmful to the environment.
however, southeastern europe uses more coal than gas for energy, with coal having an even greater impact on long-term climate change.
indeed, the ideal for the whole of europe and the world is to be powered by renewable energy, but this ideal is still in the works.
i believe that supplying italy and southern europe with gas and, by implication, ensuring energy security should not and will not in any way slow down the development of renewable energies.
until the ideal of full renewable energy supply is achieved, gas remains a viable option.
the project can also improve the energy infrastructure of the entire region, not just the states through which the pipeline will pass, thus bringing economic benefits to these countries and regions.
adding a new source and a new route reduces the risk of becoming dependent, of facing energy crises as happened in 2009 and, not least, the risk of becoming subject to prices and interests.
i therefore encourage the continuation of the project, given the prospects for energy independence in the south and - why not?
of course, there is no ideal system, of course we have to make compromises, there will never be a possibility to have a 100% clean environment.
i know, colleague, it's very nice to say, and populist even, we are advocating here to have zero pollution, to have nothing.
but the energy security you have spoken about, the fact that we are 70 per cent dependent on imports and even with the tendency to increase to 80 per cent, i think are extraordinarily important arguments to support this tap project and i support it.
we join you in stressing the importance of policies of reconciliation as part of the european integration process so that civilians of all ethnicities may overcome the tensions of the past and begin peaceful and genuine coexistence in the interests of sustainable peace, stability and economic growth.
the tribunal has finished its existence, but there is still work to be done, so we encourage our western balkan partners to make further efforts to overcome legacies of the past and to foster reconciliation, including through promoting a climate of tolerance.
it is also necessary to step up innovation and research to identify pesticides that ensure sustainable agriculture and effective protection of the beekeeping sector.
bees are extremely important contributors to pollination and biodiversity conservation, so the mortality of bees - caused by both climate change and insecticides - should not be ignored.
finally, as also pointed out in the report, the fifth un sustainable development goal (sdg5) consists in achieving gender equality and empowering all women and girls throughout the world.
– gender inequality poses serious threats to achieving a sustainable economy and reaching the goal of a non-discriminatory society.
the common agricultural policy is therefore a key financing instrument for boosting economic growth and makes an important contribution to stimulating sustainable growth and job creation, while contributing to the preservation of rural areas and combating rural depopulation.
so if we manage to ensure a link with the european semester, which is more proportionate and more operational, i believe it will help foster the essential structural changes in the areas which have been targeted with our pilot actions, such as business environment, innovation ecosystems, vocational education or training.
madam president, one of the greatest challenges facing humanity today in terms of sustainable development, health and the global economy is global warming.
in this context, i believe that the european union and the member states should pay greater attention to the covenant of mayors, maintaining this kind of cooperation in the long term, until 2030 or even 2050, in order to boost the momentum of the 6 500 signatory european cities and regions that have committed to meet and even exceed the european union's 2020 greenhouse gas emission reduction targets.
on the other hand, it should be stressed that the regions and cities involved in the implementation of cop 21 need decisive and innovative investments, oriented towards sustainable projects, especially in the field of energy.
the role of regions and cities in the implementation of the paris agreement cannot be disputed, just as we cannot contest climate change.
citizens are ultimately bearing the consequences of climate change.
that's why i think we need to put a lot of emphasis on environmental education.
on the other hand, the education system needs to include knowledge about global warming, about climate change.
the use of renewable energy is just one of many measures that must be taken.
we cannot and will not use the internal market à la carte - mr lenaers said it earlier or mr danti said it - when it is an integrated ecosystem and the four freedoms, including freedom of movement, are indivisible and inseparable.
i believe in a strong eu-uk partnership even after withdrawal, with the union and the uk demonstrating that they can take much more sustainable, effective and efficient action together than separately.
yesterday, i was at dillinger hütte, in saarland, to meet with representatives of the european steel industry from saarland, from lorraine and from luxembourg – a very competitive steel industry, able to innovate, able to create green steel in the future, to make sure that steel remains an essential element of the european economy, in a way that is sustainable.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on industry, research and energy.
but to do so, it is important to provide these societies with a favourable environment for building a truly globally competitive eu economy, i.e.
the budget must also have policies with european added value and link revenues to union objectives, in particular in the areas of the single market, energy, environment and transport.
union budgets must provide an incentive for sustainable growth, convergence, inclusion, so that we can create better working and living conditions for union citizens.
i think about how sad it is now, that we have so little infrastructure -- i'm not talking about rural -- in the urban environment.
the rural environment is a disaster, and i would not want to see that by switching to alternative fuels, we disconnect poor areas and rural areas from transport connectivity.
the burning of these products results in the production of polluting emulsions, which have a harmful effect on the population, the environment and amplify the greenhouse effect, which increases global warming.
the european family must take a defensive stance against massive pollution, adopt various mechanisms to increase the use of alternative energies.
we also need to think seriously about the deployment of energy-efficient public transport in urban areas.
these moves will create a healthy environment and increase competitiveness across all sectors to find the best solutions.
they have an essential role in ensuring democracy, human rights, the rule of law, stability and sustainable development, but this is probably too much for today’s sudan.
mr president, climate change is already affecting the planet and society and will continue to do so for generations to come, if the appropriate actions are not taken now!
both developed and developing countries have increased commitments for addressing climate change, which is gratifying, given the fact that climate change is a problem which cannot be solved by national or local action alone.
forest management has an essential role to play in combating climate change, as all sectors must contribute to the overall eu emission reduction goal.
nevertheless, forest mitigation should be measured using a scientifically objective approach, not allowing countries to hide the impacts of policies that increase emissions.
the next item is the joint debate on the report of ms simone bonafè, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste (com (2015) 0596 - c8-0385/2015 - 2015/0276 (cod)) (a8-0029/2017) on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2000/53/ec on end-of-life vehicles, directive 2006/66/ec on batteries and accumulators and directive 2012/35/ec on electronic equipment and packaging waste (cod/2018/eu) (cod/2018/0838), on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/68/ec on electronic equipment and accumulators (com (2015) 0386 - c0538/2015) on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec (com (2015) 03847) and directive 2009/68/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the safety of electronic equipment and accumulators in the field of packaging and of foodstuffs (com (2015) 0382 - c05384/2017) on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/68/ec) on the european parliament and of the european parliament and of the council on the european parliament and of the european parliament and of the european commission directive 2009/68/ec of the european parliament and of the european parliament and of the council on environmental, directive 2009/68/0013/ec, directive 2009/68/ec, and the directive 2009/ec, and the council directive 2009/ec, and the council directive 2009/ec, directive (a8-a8-a8-a8-a8-a8-a8-d
madam president, tonnes of paper, glass, biowaste and even metals lie buried on the outskirts of our cities, threatening water supplies and air quality.
human beings simply wish to live and prosper in a safe and caring environment.
the circular economy is therefore not only about waste recycling or targets, it is actually about air, water, new jobs, new resources and money – money that we can dig out of the bin and put to work for us in a new economy that never existed before.
madam president, in one year the total volume of waste generated by the european union amounts to 2.5 billion tonnes, of which 1.6 billion tonnes have not been recycled or reused, which is a huge loss for the european economy.
in the urban environment, only 43% of waste is recycled, the rest being stored in landfills, 31%, or incinerated, 26%.
all this waste is an important source of raw materials for the economy, especially when we consider that natural reserves of raw materials are limited in time and some of them may not be accessible at affordable prices in the coming years.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on waste management and the implementation of the union's policy on waste management.
the use of packaging made from organic materials will generate price reductions and a lower impact on the environment.
europe must pay greater attention to hazardous waste which seriously affects the health and safety of the population, the quality of water, and the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the environment action programme is a wide-ranging set of regulations and policies with numerous objectives and targets.
if fully implemented, it would bring considerable improvements in the environment, health and quality of life.
the benefits to citizens and the environment, the shaping of a long-term vision and a strategic orientation for decision-makers were recognised.
in terms of resource efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions reductions, eu legislation is having a positive impact and there is clear progress towards a more resource-efficient economy.
the natural capital of the european union is deteriorating, with devastating effects on the environment and ecosystem services such as water, air and food.
environmental threats to health are sometimes difficult to measure and we don't have enough data.
for example, it is clear that the constantly high emissions from road transport force millions of people to breathe polluted air.
better alignment of agricultural policies with environmental objectives is essential both for environmental protection and for future food security.
food security and environmental protection are not opposite priorities.
progress in conserving nature and biodiversity could be much greater if existing funds were used more wisely.
the european court of auditors has identified several cases of inefficient use of european funds in projects with an impact on environmental objectives.
at regional and municipal level, urban planning is vital to tackling many issues of resource efficiency and environmental threats to health.
commissioner, a clear majority in the environment committee has called for a new global post-2020 agenda.
people expect better results in this area, they expect faster progress in areas where they are being delayed, such as tackling pollution or reducing biodiversity loss.
to meet these expectations, to protect the environment more effectively, we need to learn as much as we can from the shortcomings of the current action programme, but also from its success stories, so that the eighth programme can be more effective, with better-scaled objectives.
the european union must ensure economic growth, but in tandem with environmental protection.
the new common agricultural policy, as well as transport and fisheries policies, therefore need to set ambitious targets to ensure sustainability.
it is reassuring to note that the evaluations show that the objectives of these instruments are largely relevant to the political priorities at the time of their creation and are, in general, in line with the ambition of the sustainable development goals.
protein plants are also a resource with important environmental benefits, contributing to nitrogen fixation in the soil, increasing soil quality and, by implication, creating favourable conditions for organic farming.
ensuring debt sustainability is essential to achieve the sustainable development goals.
sustainable public finances are contingent on good public financial management, transparency, domestic revenue mobilisation and fighting against illicit financial flows.
the european commission is closely monitoring the debt situation in developing countries and is active in supporting partner countries in managing their debt in a sustainable manner.
budget support is a central element in our toolbox to help countries in managing their debt sustainability.
we continue to monitor countries’ debt sustainability through our regular risk assessment and microeconomic analysis.
we are also monitoring debt sustainability in relation to the external investment plan and to blending operations, and we respect internationally agreed debt limits.
on debt sustainability, the commission works very closely with the world bank and the imf.
i welcome this important report which highlights the need to promote more binding rules to strengthen the debt sustainability of developing countries, while making key recommendations which i strongly support.
i support the need to introduce integrated strategies for sustainable urban development, including in sub-regional areas, and to improve communication with european citizens, as they need to be better informed about the concrete achievements of cohesion policy and the results of the use of european funds in the regions where they live.
i simply know from history that if there is no minimum agreement between france and germany, we waste a lot of time going forward and pretending to make europe and to continue.
the energy transition, digitalisation, trade, large-scale migration, we need a european response.
a peaceful environment will be crucial to create the necessary conditions towards the negotiated solution.
once agreed, consistent monitoring and verification of the de-nuclearisation by respective international bodies such as the international atomic energy agency will be needed to ensure that dprk is be strictly and fully implementing its commitments.
secondly, i would like to welcome the news that the instrument contributing to stability and peace, in addition to the support for security initiatives and peace-building activities, will now provide funds for training measures and equipment supplies to third countries working towards the sustainable development goals.
in 2015, a first green card initiative on food waste was supported by 18 chambers.
the court welcomes the support expressed by parliament in its resolution on several points, in particular on the overall prudent and economic management of the court's budget, its organisational reform of 2016, its good cooperation with the committee on budgetary control and the important follow-up also in the european parliament's specialised committees, its new rules on official vehicles and the court's environmental policy.
– mr president, first of all, i would like to put an emphasis on the fact that in the light of the post—2020 multiannual financial framework (mff), the union budget should be a true european added—value budget aimed at common objectives promoting the sustainable economic and social development of the whole union, of all states.
while welcoming this progress, efforts have to go much further in order to meet the pledge taken in 2005 and to achieve the sustainable development goals.
the european aviation safety agency is responsible for ensuring safety and environmental protection in the field of air transport in europe.
an additional reason to allocate sufficient financial, material and human resources is to complete the regulatory and executive tasks in the areas of safety and environmental protection.
because of climate change, the migration waves can be much larger.
and i believe that, through very good cooperation between the national authorities and the commission, we can monitor and have better results both for consumer protection and for - in circulation - risk reduction, but also for environmental protection.
mr president, commissioner, organic production is an invaluable resource for the health of citizens and the environment, which must be given a prominent place in the new common agricultural policy and which must be protected by the european union through effective mechanisms guaranteeing high standards in this area.
farmers must be paid fairly for their efforts to supply high quality products to the market, but also for their significant contribution to maintaining a clean and healthy environment.
the sustainable development of organic production must be based on robust, transparent and harmonised production rules at european union level.
the environmental label makes it easier for consumers to visually identify goods and services with a lower environmental impact.
they are also to make sure that government support for important priorities like research and fighting climate change has the right effect, to make sure that public money does not just replace investment which companies would have made anyway; that aid does not deny innovative companies the chance to compete.
so our common european actions match our ambitions on research, on climate change, on support for small- and medium-sized businesses and on social infrastructure, and i am very keen to discuss the proposal with you once it is complete.
the union’s main policy to reduce disparities among regions and member states is a major driver of job creation, sustainable growth and innovation in europe.
in this respect, the european pillar of social rights emphasised the right of workers to a healthy, safe and well-adapted work environment.
mr president, the development of the sheep and goat sector is an essential link in a sustainable and efficient agriculture.
the contribution of this sector to the prevention of climate change, floods, avalanches and forest fires, as well as to employment in rural areas, is also essential.
it is therefore important to ensure that the sector has a viable future in the european union, also taking into account the undeniable environmental added value, contributing to the maintenance of biodiversity and landscapes, as well as to combating phenomena such as soil erosion.
sheep also play an important role in the environment, helping to maintain a significant number of hectares of grassland in the european union.
in an increasingly complex and interconnected media environment, the judicious use of information and new possibilities of expression is essential.
member states must take measures against violent attempts on media freedom and independence in order to safeguard a pluralist media environment.
among the projects financed are the modernisation and extension of the regina maria medical network and also the financing of the european energy corridor.
these initiatives, along with the circular economy and recent legislation on energy efficiency and renewables pave the way for a sustainable and healthier economic model.
in the same vein, an environment favourable to farmers' development must be created by providing financial support for the setting up of producer organisations, eliminating unfair practices and adapting environmental architecture to local needs.
i want to see agricultural enterprises and farms that receive subsidies forced to respect the environment and produce in a sustainable way.
future agriculture cannot be sustainable and successful without young farmers having financial support and access to state-of-the-art technological mechanisms.
however, efficient and interconnected mobility also needs to be smart, sustainable, inclusive, safe and secure.
at the same time, we want to make our network safer, more secure and more resilient to climate change and natural disasters.
but this can only be achieved by a team effort – which brings me to my second point, which is synergies between the transport, energy and digital sectors.
and finally, my sixth point, on energy.
the european union’s climate commitments require an unprecedented level of investment in energy infrastructure which enables decarbonisation of energy systems.
some gas grids may be transformed to carry synthetic gas, reduced with surpluses of renewable energy.
the cef has a very important and growing role to play here, so an ambitious financial envelope is required, as well as support for synergy costs as i mentioned before, where transport, energy and/or digital can act together.
furthermore, cef will be needed to support some more outstanding investments in projects to ensure energy security.
it is clear that transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructures are at the heart of economic development.
for energy or made some improvements and also for telecommunications.
on synergies: synergies between transport, energy and the digital sector will be implemented through a joint work programme, jointly financed and with the possibility to apply to the highest co-funding rate in the sector concerned.
i will ask you to continue to demonstrate it, and i really look forward to continuing discussing it in the coming months, in close coordination with my colleagues in charge of the energy and digital sectors, to allow swift progress on this very important file.
therefore, the instrument brings a massive eu value added, enhancing cohesion, long-term sustainable growth and economic competitiveness.
i appreciate in particular, madam rapporteur, the way that you also highlighted the fact that you share our assessment of the quick-changing environment for eu trade policy, protectionism, changing positions on the us and china, on what open, free and fair global trade based on wto obligations actually means in practice, as well as the growing economic political weight of asia, the digital economy and brexit.
the implementation of the trade and sustainable development chapters is one of our top priorities.
we will be working on the 15-point action plan and, here, stepping up the support to civil society groups and reinforcing cooperation with international bodies such as the international labour organisation (ilo), the united nations environment programme (unep) and other civil societies.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the report points out, since the publication of the 'trade for all' strategy, the international context has been marked by the emergence of new challenges and, in the face of the rise of protectionist practices, we must strengthen our support for an open, fair, balanced, sustainable and values-based trading system that offers economic opportunities to the citizens of the european union and our trading partners.
it should be stressed that trade is not an end in itself, but that a fair and supportive trade policy, conducted in accordance with the objectives of sustainable development and the promotion of human rights, plays a key role in poverty eradication.
it is therefore essential to remain committed to engaging partner countries in a process of cooperation and to provide comprehensive provisions in trade agreements, in particular with regard to social, labour and environmental standards.
as president juncker and manfred weber, chair of the european people's party (epp), stated, it is about contributing to the national budget in a fair way, so i would like to ask prime minister bettel if european citizens can count on his support in moving europe forward to a fair, sustainable and modern tax system.
the commission’s proposal aims to make the civil protection mechanism better prepared and more responsive to protect european citizens, their livelihoods and our environment.
they can strike simultaneously in several of our member states due to climate change.
climate change is making the challenge even bigger and more unpredictable.
so, dear colleagues, climate change is not fake news.
while recalling that equality and the empowerment of women are stand-alone human rights objectives, i would like to emphasise that they are essential to the achievement of the sustainable development goals, and i would like to emphasise in particular the fifth sustainable development goal, which aims to achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls worldwide.
unlocking the full potential of green design contributes to improving energy and raw material management and accelerating the transition to a more sustainable and low-carbon economy.
this will help to reduce the millions of tonnes of waste entering landfills and incineration and, subsequently, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
it is also very important, as mr marinescu, the rapporteur, said, that you come up with subsequent legislation, because the regulation must address two extremely important things: the safety of passengers and the protection of the environment.
for sure, ms karima delli will be very happy, because the single european sky will bring a decrease in emissions without any effort and without any cost, only political, and this is not a big cost.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we certainly lacked this system for monitoring and measuring emissions and fuel consumption for heavy duty vehicles.
we need to measure emissions, after all, of course, we have the interest of safety, but also of environmental protection.
the low-carbon circular economy is a major eu objective.
as is well known, in order to transition to clean energy for all europeans, the eu has set itself ambitious emission reduction targets by 2030, to which the transport sector must also contribute.
however, to date, the co2 emissions and fuel consumption of new heavy-duty vehicles entering the eu market have not been certified, monitored and reported, which creates a barrier to the establishment of policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the heavy-duty vehicle sector.
the monitoring and reporting system for new heavy-duty vehicles proposed at union level will therefore contribute to the creation of a fully transparent market for new heavy-duty vehicles, which will allow buyers to make the best informed purchasing decisions, giving manufacturers a stronger incentive to innovate and develop more energy efficient vehicles.
we must no longer rely on memorization, we must rely on vocation, we must identify the skills of children from primary school, develop a love of work and, of course, we must think about the rural environment, commissioner.
sustainable development cannot be reached without a solid educational base, adapted to the current framework in order to provide the necessary knowledge and skills to address the contemporary challenges.
i welcome the fact that your report recognises the importance of developing a sustainable and competitive european aquaculture sector.
first of all, let me recall that we have already done a lot to create a positive environment for the sustainable development of eu aquaculture.
i am proud of the significant funding the eu invests in research and innovation: around eur 20 million per year under horizon 2020, as well as in communication to promote sustainable aquaculture in the eu.
i share your opinion that support to innovation is needed, and we will support smart ideas and approaches that make the sector more sustainable and more competitive.
i’m looking forward to continuing to work with you on further promoting aquaculture and developing a competitive and sustainable aquaculture sector in the eu.
the union also needs to develop freshwater aquaculture and inland aquaculture in enclosed waters, sectors that represent an opportunity for improving food security and rural development, providing jobs in the poorest rural areas and playing an ecological role in maintaining valuable wetlands and providing a wide range of ecosystem services.
the economic activity that can be carried out and that can bring many jobs to the european union must also be supported and i call on the european commission to include recreational fishing among the themes of the year of the eden project for sustainable tourism and to initiate projects in our cosme fund to promote tourism generated by recreational fishing.
we believe that the emff funds should be used for this activity too, because in a changing time, with climate challenges, with food challenges, recreational fishing is not only a chance for recreation but also for life.
finally, on the employment, growth and competitiveness aspects, i would like to recall the commitment to step up efforts to bring the single market strategy, the digital single market strategy, the capital market action plan and the energy union to a successful conclusion by the end of the current legislative cycle.
the european union must continue to work towards the completion of a sustainable and fair single market fit for the digital age and facilitating competitiveness, innovation, sustainability and european cohesion, as this is quite important for the countries of central and eastern europe.
today the sweeping inspections regime of the international atomic energy agency certifies that iran is complying with all its commitments.
they show where strong human rights protection frameworks have been put in place, where communities have been made stronger through the work of civil society organisations and where countries have shown that poverty reduction and sustainable development can be achieved hand-in-hand with making progress in human rights.
– madam president, it is no secret that in the light of a marked deterioration of europe’s security environment, the relations between the eu and nato have got a new increased relevance.
sustainable economic growth requires the most efficient and responsible use of resources of all kinds, as they are limited.
in this respect, i believe that funding programmes should be better tailored to the profile of regions aiming to exploit their sustainable potential, and that support should be geared towards a smooth transition to the principles of the circular economy.
we can't go on with the current principles, since resources are becoming scarcer, more expensive and more damaging to the environment to obtain.
as i said in my speech, the european union has to concentrate on its core tasks: those being, of course, the internal market, economic and monetary union (emu), external borders, the issue of migration and, yes, the big issue of climate change.
i believe that emu can deliver on this only if all the member states get their house in order, which means aiming for sound and sustainable budgets and competitive economies through the implementation of structural reforms.
while welcoming the commission's proposal for the general architecture for future cooperation between the acp group of countries and the european union, i would like to stress that the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, the sustainable development goals and the european consensus on development must form the core of the future partnership.
i am pleased to see that we have reached an agreement on so many fundamental actualities related to indigenous peoples: the impact of their lifestyle on environmental sustainability, the preservation of cultural diversity, traditions and languages, the conservation of ecosystems and the fight against deforestation, among many others.
we speak about mechanisms to support human rights defenders working with indigenous people, coherence between the eu’s trade, development and investment policies and their impact on the rights of indigenous people, the inclusion of these communities when elaborating strategies for tackling climate change, and the development of an eu action plan on responsible business conduct to address the implementation of the un guiding principles on business and human rights.
climate diplomacy encompasses many aspects which we have touched on in this discussion – implementation and ambition under the paris agreement, migration, climate security, climate finance and, last but not least, our domestic commitments and actions here in the european union.
the effects of climate change are known to increasingly affect various aspects of human life, as well as development opportunities, the geopolitical order and global stability.
this welcome own-initiative report underlines the importance of climate diplomacy for the eu, a form of foreign policy involving third country governments and global non-governmental actors, to promote the fight against climate change and carbon emissions.
taking into account the eu's international leadership on climate change and its commitments to implement sustainable development strategies and to comply with the paris agreement, the report calls for a coherent and coordinated approach to eu climate diplomacy, improvements to its structure, additional financial and human resources, and the integration of the climate diplomacy dimension into the eu's external relations.
we also agree that, given the importance of the impact of climate change on human life, peace and stability, climate action is a matter of improving global security and living conditions and that the eu should be more proactive in building alliances to implement the paris agreement.
in the coming year the european union will focus on peace and conflict prevention, a common positive agenda with the promotion and protection of human rights at the heart of multilateralism, and on expanding global engagement on issues such as climate action, the environment, migration, counterterrorism and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
peace and security are indivisible from sustainable development and human rights.
the european union sees the sustainable development goals as an extraordinary opportunity to eradicate poverty and achieve sustainable development in its three dimensions – economic, societal and environmental.
finally, on the issue of expanding our global engagement, the coming year will be crucial to accelerating climate action and operationalising the landmark paris agreement.
together with china and canada, the european union organised the 2018 ministerial on climate action, renewing global momentum towards the effective implementation of the paris agreement.
cooperation with the united nations is also of paramount importance in responding to the challenges we face, whether it is the increase in conflict, terrorism, migration, climate change or the implementation of the 2030 agenda.
i regret, however, that this year a number of issues that divide us are reflected in the text we are voting on, in particular paragraphs 1 (x) on western sahara and 1 (abm) on the recognition of a protection status for climate refugees.
at the heart of europe, austria plays the role of an essential bridge—builder in the eu, and at this delicate time, as we are confronted with challenges that are global in nature and scale, such as a lack of resources, climate change and environmental deterioration, massive migration, the fight against poverty, and terrorism, we require a joint multilateral solution.
moldova must remain on the path of european values, towards a healthy democracy, towards an independent judiciary, towards the development of the business environment.
there are therefore no direct economic, environmental or social impacts that result from revisions of the legislation and that could usefully be analysed in an impact assessment.
let's think especially about the rural environment, the villages, where women suffer violence and they don't have the courage to report domestic violence or workplace violence because there is no possibility afterwards to be protected, there is no shelter, there is no possibility to not continue this violence in a permanent form.
the digital environment offers new opportunities, new actors and new business models, and the evolution of digital technologies has changed the way works and other subject matter are created, produced, distributed and exploited.
after world war ii, a large number of nuclear scientists started to oppose nuclear weapons so that research could focus on the peaceful applications of nuclear energy, and i think that today we are witnessing something very similar: scientists and artificial intelligence pioneers are warning us of the dangers ahead.
i also see the opportunity to find new synergies on our energy policies, in particular after our recent energy council with the usa in brussels in july –at the very same time, by the way, as the nato summit.
europe and the usa have a clear interest in diversifying our energy supplies, and this is just one of the many issues where our interests converge.
but we also have a strong interest in preserving multilateralism and in strengthening multilateralism: namely, the interest that we have to prevent conflicts, to promote sustainable development, to promote human rights and to guarantee, in this way, our own european security.
that is why we continue – and we will continue – to defend the nuclear deal with iran and the paris agreement on climate change, and to fund the essential work of all the un agencies, including the one for palestinian refugees, unrwa.
and let me be very clear on elections, because i have heard your voices and i know very well what is the current debate, especially among commentators and in the media about that, but we do have a clear, common european union position that i have been expressing in these months, including to our libyan interlocutors and on which we have been working with the un special representative in these months on a daily basis, which is that elections will need to take place first of all in a sustainable security environment.
all energy and resources should go into seeking political solutions for achieving peace, not into creating more grievances, which will only perpetuate the conflict.
we call for responsible engagement on key issues such as wto reform and climate change, to name but two.
if we did that, it would create an enormous market for the recycling of plastic waste.
plastic waste has a value and today we are losing most of this value, simply because we have not developed good policies to recycle plastic.
let me assure you that the austrian presidency attaches great importance to the circular economy and treaty-related files such as the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment.
thus, the council looks forward to the results of the commission’s public consultations addressing the interface between chemical product and waste legislation, which is still ongoing until 29 october.
– the way plastics are produced, used and disposed of today has devastating environmental, climate and economic drawbacks and potential negative health impacts on both humans and animals.
i very much welcome this report, which tackles successively the need to move from design for recycling to design for circularity, the creation of a genuine single market for recycled plastics, prevention of plastic waste generation, as well as innovation and global action.
indeed, the eu plastic strategy constitutes a necessary step forward in the eu’s transition towards a circular economy and as well as a crucial tool towards attaining the sustainable development goal to prevent and reduce marine litter.
preventing the generation of plastic waste upfront and boosting our plastics recycling performance are both essential.
26 million tonnes of plastic waste are produced in europe every year.
about 79,000 tons of this waste end up in the oceans, covering an area of 1.6 million square kilometers.
i believe that this report is very important and necessary, as the impact of plastic waste on flora, fauna and human health is clearly negative.
the solutions used for the management of plastic waste in the marine environment need to be integrated into the global plastics strategy.
i support the rapporteur and believe that clever solutions are needed, and that tax policies should stimulate the collection and recycling of waste.
it affects the economy, it affects yields, it affects productivity, it affects the environment, it affects, of course, the lives of people everywhere, in every country.
even in the european union, unfortunately, we still find angry citizens, angry businesses, we have traffic jams, we have congestion in the urban environment.
the european parliament has shown very active and constructive engagement on this issue, leading to the adoption of the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) on 13 september by an overwhelming majority.
first of all, i would like to congratulate ms cabezón ruiz on her timely work as rapporteur, as well as the shadow rapporteurs in the envi committee, and the members of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco).
on the one hand, i share the view that it is necessary to ensure that ifrs 17 does not represent a constraint for small and medium-sized enterprises, while at the same time advocating high-quality information and publication and including the sustainability of long-term objectives in line with the paris agreement.
but at the same time we need to be pragmatic and keep in mind also the vulnerabilities and imperfections of the system like the threat of hacking, risks to cybersecurity and the environmental impact.
consequently, we need a more environmentally friendly system and a less energy consuming one, but also one that addresses technological risks and potential security challenges.
sectors such as energy, food, health, transport and manufacturing could be significantly reshaped by these emerging technologies.
the eu needs to create an ecosystem where innovation by companies and start—ups are encouraged.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there is no doubt that the european union today faces many challenges, whether it is the unequal effects of the development process between urban and rural areas, generated in particular by the difference in living standards between the two areas, the difference in digitalisation and automation, or whether it is the movement of people from mountainous or isolated rural areas, areas that are otherwise vulnerable and due to the continuing loss of biodiversity and the impact of climate change.
solidarity, smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and the removal of social disparities would not be possible without both policies being strongly funded and supported by deeds rather than words.
moreover, they are also generated by the inability of some member states to understand the need to contribute to the budget of the european union at a level that enables it to meet new challenges, ensure the safety and security of citizens, a sustainable compact and an effective cohesion policy.
the next item is the debate on the report by miriam dalli, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council setting emission performance standards for new passenger cars and new light commercial vehicles as part of the union's integrated approach to reduce co2 emissions from light-duty vehicles, and amending regulation (ec) no 715/2007 (recast) (com (2017) 0676 c8-0395/2017 2017/0329 ((cod)) (a8-0287/2018).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that we must set our targets so that the union can meet its commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the proposals to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by imposing targets on car manufacturers are indeed ambitious, but the question is: are they realistic?
i believe that the commission's proposal to reduce carbon dioxide emissions - which is an ambitious one - can be improved so that we can achieve the environmental objectives on the one hand and see the negative impact on the car industry and reduce it on the other.
as a follow-up to the commission's proposal to amend the vat directive to give member states more flexibility in setting the vat rate, i welcome the amendments proposed in the report as they emphasise that the reduced rate should benefit the final consumer first, while pursuing social and environmental objectives.
therefore, i share the view that the reduced rate and the exception should only apply to products with a positive impact on the general interest with clear cultural, social or environmental benefits and should never be applied to harmful or luxury products.
belarusian authorities need to strengthen respect for democratic principles and the right for truthful and unbiased journalism to prevent the climate for independent media from worsening.
the following is the order of business for the joint debate on:- question with a request for an oral reply on the 2018 un climate change conference in katowice, poland (cop24) addressed to the council by adina-ioana vălean, peter liese, jo leinen, jadwiga wiśniewska, gerben-jan gerbrandy, bas eickhout and estefanía torres martínez on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000089/2018 - b8-0411/2018) (2018/2598(rsp)),- question with a request for an oral reply on the 2018 un climate change conference in katowice, poland (cop24) addressed to the committee by adina-ioana vălean, peter liese, gerben wiśniewska, gerben-jan wiśniewska and gerben-jan wiśniewska (cop148/1414148/2018)), with a request for an oral reply by jeanine wiśniewska, jadwiga wiśniewska, gerben-jan eickhout and gerben-jan gerben (2018/1598) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000088000),-public health (o-janine pier pier piernickie wiśniewski) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and public health (o-jan jan jan jan jan jan jan 2018),-jan wiśniewska (2018/141498/jan) and the committee on the convention on the protection of the environment, the convention (o-jan jan 2018 convention), with a request for the convention on the protection of the protection of wildlife (2018/14th of species (o-jan jan jan jan 2018),
author.
undoubtedly climate change is one of the most important challenges facing humanity.
the recently released report from the ipcc on global warming of 1.5°c indicates that climate risks are worse than we thought and that allowing global temperatures to rise by nearly 2°c is not safe.
we are five weeks away from the start of the 24th climate conference in katowice and it is shaping up to be a race against time to prepare the so-called paris ‘rule book’, which will govern how the climate agreement will actually be implemented.
the european union and its member states are the largest provider of public climate finance, but the actual pledges by developed countries fall far short of the collective goal of usd 100 billion per year.
the suspension of the us contributions to the green climate fund will substantially widen up a hole we have all been working hard to fill in.
as every year, in line with our commitment to the international climate process, the european parliament will attend the katowice conference and follow the discussion and decisions made there.
but before i hand the floor to my colleagues, i would also like to raise the issue of biodiversity.
biodiversity decline is one of the biggest environmental challenges of our time.
unfortunately, the large majority of the 2020 aichi biodiversity targets will not be met with the current trajectory of biodiversity loss.
given the intrinsic value of biodiversity and the essential contribution of ecosystem services to human wellbeing and economic prosperity, the protection of global biodiversity should receive the highest political attention.
i would therefore urge the commission and the member states to commit to immediate, substantial and additional efforts on biodiversity conservation so as to meet the eu targets and halt the loss of biodiversity.
i will leave it at that and conclude by saying that i look forward to a fruitful exchange with you all this afternoon, as well as a smooth cooperation between our institutions on these issues and, more specifically, in the run-up and during the climate negotiations in december.
in recent years, it has become clear that we need to do much more than we have done before to stop the harmful effects of climate change.
it also appears that the impact of changes in the regulatory environment by the states is limited.
in the future, it will not be enough to reduce emissions from road transport alone, but progress will also have to be made in agriculture, industry, energy, aviation and water transport.
if there is a global challenge today that requires the collective effort and sacrifice of all of us, it is climate change.
halting biodiversity loss, not only on land but also in our oceans, must become more than just a goal.
we know for a fact that biodiversity loss has direct links to human displacement, migration and global security concerns linked to food and water.
the conservation and restoration of biodiversity can therefore be a powerful antidote to these challenges.
we have started our preparatory work with the evaluation of the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020, including plans for stakeholder consultation.
on the 2018 un climate change conference, strong and united european union messaging will be instrumental to continue to deliver on our leadership during cop 24 in katowice and beyond.
the european commission and the council, under the leadership of the austrian presidency, will contribute to the conclusion of the negotiations on the paris work programme, so as to enable the paris agreement to be fully implemented and global progress on curbing emissions to be tracked transparently and regularly.
with our domestic experience and external policy instruments and dialogues, we are in a position to help our partners to advance their transition to a low-carbon, climate-resilient economy.
we should also assume a leadership position in prompting our partners to develop their long-term strategies if possible already ahead of the climate summit, which is to be convened by un secretary general guterres in september 2019, or in any case for 2020 as foreseen under the paris agreement.
in the context of cop14, we welcome the initiative of egypt to host a high—level segment in november 2018, just before cop14, to discuss mainstreaming biodiversity into energy and mining, infrastructure, manufacturing, processing and the health sectors.
the council also stresses the importance of convening a high—level biodiversity summit, at the level of heads of state and government in 2020, to strengthen the political visibility of biodiversity and its vital contribution to the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
– i wish to welcome the work of the envi rapporteurs on the resolution on the 2018 un climate change conference in poland, which will focus on the full implementation of the paris agreement.
i strongly believe that setting binding climate-related targets for each beneficiary is crucial in order to assure that the fund brings the desired outcomes and maximises european taxpayers’ confidence in this mechanism’s capability to deliver.
europe is, and needs to be, in the forefront of the world combat against climate change.
employee financial participation (efp) is one possible way to achieve our goal to reduce unemployment and ensure sustainable growth and jobs.
among the advantages of efp schemes, i can mention more sustainable governance, better business continuity and access to capital for smes, better social dialogue and quality of work, more fidelity and motivation, less absenteeism and better skills development.
the main improvements to the commission proposal resulting from the trialogue were those relating to the amr package, online sales, pharmacovigilance, data protection, specific procedures for marketing authorisation for minor species or exceptional circumstances, environmental protection, homeopathic products.
on the eu side we will highlight the importance of working on the implementation and sustainability of reforms and increasing reform efforts in the area of law enforcement and justice.
for instance, ensuring proper functioning of the labour market, an efficient social protection mechanism, strengthening economic governance and public financial management, and further improving the business environment and financial infrastructure.
furthermore, improving transport links and infrastructure, boosting energy resilience through strengthening energy interconnections, energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy is a main priority for our work with georgia and the other partner countries.
i reiterate our expectation that the government of moldova will provide them with an enabling environment to pursue their activities.
given that we at european level want transport to be sustainable, clean and as efficient as possible, rail transport can gain ground over other modes of transport, especially by adequately safeguarding passenger rights.
the re-imposition of us sanctions may also bring substantial collateral effects, in particular it could weigh on the region’s trade flows and energy supplies, connectivity and ultimately the security and stability of states such as iraq and afghanistan.
this is an assessment based on scientific facts provided through a uniquely high number of inspections and 13 reports by the international atomic energy agency.
helping vulnerable children to develop at an early age, according to their needs, is part of a sustainable solution to social integration in the eu.
madam president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, obviously this is an interesting and important subject for everyone, and we as members of parliament are obviously in favour of reducing emissions, but as has been said here, there are different levels of possibilities for the member states, and the commissioners have stressed here: we need investment in technology, investment in infrastructure.
i have another question about the fact that the european union is leading the way in reducing new emissions, we are not alone here on the globe: what do you think, what can be done to make the other continents and the other institutions fight for their own emissions, globally?
what we are proposing to do concretely, because we have very little achievement in my view, they have been nominated by colleagues, i will not say them, but perhaps in your answers you can, in summary, tell us what are the next things that we could solve in the single market, because here we need jobs, sustainability for smes, economic growth, in this global competition.
however, our common market needs immediate adaptation to a fast-changing global economic environment, emerging business models and evolving digital technologies.
special focus should be put on tangible results and a sustainable track record, notably as regards the fight against corruption, organised crime and money laundering.
we strongly believe that the authorities should guarantee a safe climate conducive to the unhindered exercise of freedom of expression and the independence of the media as a matter of priority.
guaranteeing the rule of law and fundamental rights would also contribute to improving the business environment in serbia and underpin the current positive economic developments and the continuous progress made in this area.
the council will continue to monitor closely serbia’s engagement towards visible and sustainable progress here so that serbia and kosovo can continue on their respective european paths.
i am convinced that there are still multiethnic regions in europe, such as transylvania, which is now part of romania, where this well-established method would be needed, since a hundred years after the end of the first world war, national minorities have not disappeared from europe ... (the president interrupted the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in september, the romanian government and meridian trade union confederation, one of the largest european trade union confederations, published a joint statement on the need for a just energy transition in the jiu valley and other coal-mining regions of the european union.
the closure of coal mines can only be achieved by strictly fulfilling the obligations of mining units towards their employees and the community, as well as those relating to the protection of the environment.
thus, to avoid a major crisis in areas such as the jiu valley, on multiple levels, from the social to the ecological, an extension of the european council's legal framework no 787 of 2010 is necessary.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by mr gerben-jan gerbrandy on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme for the environment and climate change (life) and repealing regulation (ec) no 1293/2013 (com ((2018) 0385 c8-0249/2018 2018/0209 ((cod)) (a8-0397/2018).
mr president, the european union is and must remain a leader in the field of environmental protection and biodiversity and in adapting european policies to climate change, which are very important for eu member states and for european citizens.
its objective is to contribute to the transition to a clean, circular, energy-efficient, low-carbon and climate-resilient economy.
this is done by promoting innovative techniques in the field of environmental policy.
the life programme contributes to the union's objective of spending 25% of its overall budget on climate objectives.
i believe it is important to send a strong signal to european citizens to implement the paris agreement and the un sustainable development goals.
mr president, according to experts, climate change will continue to be one of the major challenges we will face in the coming years.
in the context of the new multiannual financial framework, i welcome the commission's proposal to increase the life programme fund by almost 60% for the next period, 2021 2027. i welcome the approach to areas of vital importance to european citizens, such as nature, the environment and quality of life.
in particular, grants of eur 41 million support projects in the areas of climate change mitigation and adaptation.
considering the complex and challenging times we are facing in the global arena, it is strategically important to invest in more cooperation and alignment with japan on matters from trade to development, foreign affairs and environment.
the trade agreement with japan, as negotiated, allows us to support an open, fair and rule—based wto system, while promoting the highest standards in the asian pacific region, namely in the field of the environment, food safety, consumer protection and labour rights.
the agreement has a number of novelties, from dedicated chapters on corporate governance and smes, to sustainable development, gender and trade, as well as parliamentary oversight.
the report starts with an analysis of the strategic environment and underlines the importance of the transatlantic bond.
we also mention the recent activities and policies of russia, which have reduced stability and changed the security environment.
we consider that the capabilities of union security and defence could be improved by making better use of the existing frameworks of defence and military cooperation, such as the european multinational high readiness corps’ headquarters and the eu battlegroups, reinforcing but not duplicating similar initiatives with nato, and we are asking for the transformation of national armed forces into forces that are more interoperable, more sustainable, more flexible and more deployable.
after its first full year in force, this agreement increased significantly bilateral trade and generated encouraging reforms in relevant areas such as decentralisation, the judiciary, energy, health, education and pensions.
so in conclusion, i think it's a proposal from the transport committee that should be supported in the plenary of this parliament, because it brings great benefits to both transport and the other sectors - digital and energy.
a key element is that at least 35% of the total budget of this programme is allocated to supporting the european union's climate objectives, which will stimulate greener products with sustainable added value for end-users.
as mr nica said, more simplification is the objective of horizon europe for the rules of participation, to make life easier for scientists and of course the earmarking of the 35% of the budget for climate related actions.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the main amendments to envi were taken up by the itre committee and concern the alignment of the objectives of the programme with the paris agreement on climate change and the contribution of up to 35% of the total programme funds to support climate change.
in accordance with rule 59, as rapporteur i would like to propose that the matter be referred back to the committee on industry, research and energy for interinstitutional negotiation.
in addition to environmental protection, the european union has a lot to do in this respect, since citizens have a legitimate expectation that european law should apply everywhere in the eu in the same way.
the commission organises regular meetings with ministers every half year, with chief veterinary officers and veterinary experts, hunters, farmers, environmental experts.
the next of such meetings will be next week in brussels where all eu member state ministers of agriculture and the environment have been jointly invited to discuss the issues – wild boar management strategy, biosecurity in forests and biosecurity in farming, and also possibilities to understand the environmental situation of wild boar population.