slovakia is involved in the eu strategy for the danube region, which focuses on building transport and energy infrastructure, promoting mobility, tourism and cultural development, and protecting the environment.
the importance of these circles is also the common denominator of the statements by the representatives of bulgaria, the eu, the council, the commission and the parliament, where it is precisely the reforms of the asylum system and the middle east security policy (which failed in the 4 previous presidencies), the successful functioning of the digital single market (together with the next 2 eu presidencies) or the deeper linking of the balkans with the eu in the fields of energy, telecommunications and education, that will contribute to a more intensive and effective cooperation at several levels.
madam president, the quality of the environment is one of the most important factors for all citizens of the european union.
therefore, investments in clean energy are also investments in environmental quality.
i am speaking on behalf of the regi committee, and i would therefore like to point out that the european investment and structural funds offer significant opportunities for innovation in the energy sector and for bringing it to market.
public-private partnerships and joint research, development and innovation (rdi) undertakings could stimulate private sector investment in clean energy.
the key role of regions, cities and municipalities must not be forgotten, as they are the co-decision-makers and bear the responsibility for the transition to other energy sources.
they are eligible applicants for funding from european funds and are a source of information for citizens on the objectives and opportunities of engaging in the transition to clean energy sources.
finally, it should be noted that our efforts to build a more stable and sustainable system in the world are more important today than at any time in history.
analyses show that the economic benefits, including energy savings, of the time-shift are negligible.
mr president, recent years have been marked by a number of climate catastrophes and armed conflicts which have mobilized millions of people.
through the european investment bank, we invest in projects that promote sustainable development and inclusive economic growth.
and to that end, i am also setting up an external investment plan that should be a catalyst for sustainable growth and job creation.
i therefore join the call sent to the commission by 17 journalistic organisations that senior eu officials should not waste time and put their words into action.
the letter calls on the commission to take the lead and to require state officials and public figures to create an environment in which the essential role of journalism is respected.
in writing the fact that the fight against climate change has been intensified in recent years is now beyond doubt.
the paris agreement is the most comprehensive agreement to protect the environment and combat climate change in history.
particularly suitable are areas which bring benefit to our citizens such as digitalisation, energy sector or completion of internal market.
eu security is threatened on a daily basis from dependence on russia’s energy, the destablising effects of propaganda, cyber-attacks and, lately, even suspicion of the use of nerve gas.
thirdly, it is clear that we need to do more to protect the environment, but also to think about the development of new technologies and jobs in the european union.
an efficient transport network is essential for sustainable economic growth as well as for territorial balance.
madam president, the gaza population is in a miserable condition, which also means that we could not find a better environment for manipulation and the rise of extremism.
i am also concerned that motor vehicles are not checked on the basis of actual mileage and that the manipulation of the mileage meter in motor vehicles has a negative impact on road safety and has a negative impact on the environment.
mr president, i was happy to support this resolution because the effort to reduce emissions gradually is the right one, of course.
freight transport accounts for around a quarter of road transport emissions and this share is still growing, so it is important to motivate manufacturers to produce not only safer but also greener vehicles.
moreover, unlike countries such as the united states, china, canada or japan, the european union is the only entity that does not apply limits to truck emissions.
those truck emissions are huge.
this is also evidenced by the statistic that more than 60% of waste is not recycled.
today, we already know several bright examples where it was small communities that created their own local circular economy strategy and became energy independent.
it brings benefits in terms of environmental quality, increases the security of raw material supply, increases competitiveness, brings innovation, growth and the creation of new jobs.
unfortunately, they do not feel supported to get an education in their family environment, so they leave school early and have difficulty finding a job.
if we do not help africa immediately, the threat of poverty, famine, climate change, war and terrorism, the hundreds of thousands of migrants who are now threatening to become millions, would have devastating consequences for europe.
on the one hand, they are the backbone of our economy, bringing jobs and development to the regions and now also playing a major role in innovation, on the other hand, they suffer from underfunding, lack of access to credit and an increasingly complex bureaucratic environment.
we have also had wildfires in greenland, and this means that what has been sensed here is true: climate change is real, it is happening, it is creating new realities on the ground, and we must adapt to them.
a little less talk about how much this change will affect the way we work and what impact it will have on the work environment for all of us.
thirdly, cooperation should be enhanced with china, especially in africa, in the areas of investment, infrastructure projects, peacekeeping and conflict resolutions, but based on our social and environmental standards.
we can further develop our trade relations, work on issues such as climate change, and also talk seriously about security issues.
but i am all for and against replacing plastics with new kinds of packaging material that have minimal environmental impact, are biodegradable and ultimately are safe for human health.
research and development of new antibiotics requires time, energy, and, above all, a large investment of funds.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
the car manufacturers' emissions scandals of recent years have significantly weakened consumer confidence, which is currently difficult to regain.
the greening of the automotive industry is a key means of meeting existing environmental objectives, given its importance in european countries.
this is linked to the development of a low-carbon economy and further increasing the competitiveness of european carmakers.
this is part of a comprehensive approach where, in addition to reducing emissions, it is essential to focus on reducing the use of heavy metals, especially lead.
one sign of positive development from the belarusian side would be to unblock charter 97, end the intimidation of independent media and journalists, drop the fabricated charges and move towards the enabling of an independent media environment.
our main priorities are clear: sustainable growth, innovation, competitiveness, security, combating climate change, the transition to renewable energy, migration, but also a special focus on young people.
more focus is needed on creating sustainable and quality jobs at fair value, or ensuring full employment for many disadvantaged groups, including disabled citizens.
in addition to the dire humanitarian situation in venezuela, president maduro’s regime continues to harass and torture political opponents whilst creating an environment of impunity in his country.
the european union is fighting against waste.
the students understand very well that if we don't protect the environment, our air will no longer be breathable in this century.
they need to be assured that we are allocating billions of euros to address the social, socio-economic and environmental consequences for those workers and their families who are adversely affected by the transition from coal to clean forms of energy.
in an environment more susceptible to foreign interference in our elections, we must find ways how to be proactive and not only retroactive.
one of the most important issues in fighting foreign influence in european elections is to strengthen the media environment in our member states, but also in candidate countries and in the neighbourhood.
all eu states must protect the personal safety and the livelihoods of investigative journalists and whistleblowers, and not only protect them but champion their causes as well, and in upcoming european elections i think that without dedicated journalists and a free media environment, it will be difficult to protect fully our own democracies.
this concerns in particular the targeted limitation of mass discrediting campaigns based on outright nonsense and disinformation in the online environment, often disseminated from abroad.
however, they spread faster and their impact is much wider, especially in the social networking environment.
moreover, escalating tensions between belgrade and pristina resulted in unprecedented tariffs and the waste of very valuable time in reaching the agreement.
i believe that the agreement has the potential to contribute to the creation of sustainable growth and decent jobs, while promoting union values and upholding high standards in areas such as food safety, environmental protection and labour rights.
we know and we should know that the european ombudsman does not work in an easy environment, we should know that he does not always find the right partners to cooperate with, we also see that, unfortunately, not everyone follows the ombudsman's recommendations to the level we would like, but this is not the office of the ombudsman.
the main area of concern of the petitions received during 2017 were environmental matters such as such as water and waste management, and preservation.
this demonstrates the need for proper environmental legislation and implementation.