because of environmental concerns, we have written into the paris agreement that we will make ambitious moves forward in this area, and in the clean energy package, where we talk about renewable sources, where we talk about energy saving, where we talk about governance in the energy union, we are working in that direction.
it is essential to involve citizens, municipalities and the economy, because we will not be the ones to regulate this green, clean energy, but citizens, citizens and the economy.
they learn about the landscapes of cooperation, the cultures of cooperation, they solve major environmental problems, economic problems, and in the western balkans, they learn about the principles of the european union and how to cooperate even where it has been more difficult in history.
i myself, of course, did not support this document, mainly because i lack the objective criteria, both in the environmental, social and economic fields, to ensure that jobs in the fisheries sector are not lost, while at the same time protecting marine fish stocks, which are seriously threatened in many seas.
we therefore need a sound strategy to transform the initiative into a more stable and sustainable funding instrument beyond 2020. we will then probably face different challenges in the labour market, but we will always, really always, have to look after those who are our future, that is, our young people, in the labour market.
europeans throw away as much as 25 million tonnes of plastic waste a year, and less than 30% of it is recycled.
single-use plastic accounts for half of the waste in the sea and on the coast, and as we've heard, by 2050, there's going to be more plastic in the sea than fish.
these are just some of the horrifying data that highlight the seriousness of the consequences of plastic waste.
some even link and equate the plastic pollution crisis with climate change.
well, and finally, the european commission has presented a strategy to fight plastic waste, which needs to be cured and striven to be as ambitious as possible, and of course i welcome the proposals aimed at reducing plastic consumption and promoting recycling.
the title of the study is called the european research group on environment and health in the transport sector.
but, to not only be critical, it's also an important way forward, especially because of these excess allowances, because it's clear that emissions trading is also, in a way, washing the bad conscience of the big polluters.
and here europe must be decisive in all its segments if it is to take seriously the protection of the environment for our descendants.
if we want to make investments sustainable for 20 years, we must also have the citizens on our side.
they are aware that long-term business success cannot be achieved without taking account of the environmental and human impacts of their business.
this will benefit everyone: businesses, employees, the environment and society as a whole.
i myself support both regulations, because in the context of efforts to combat climate change, we are moving in the right direction.
i think it is particularly important that in the area of the lulucf regulation we have managed to preserve forests as a source of greenhouse gas sinks while still enabling sustainable forest management.
it means using the forest as a source of quality building materials that avoid the use of many other materials that cause greenhouse gases, and also incorporating this very important wood mass into the bioeconomy.
i am also very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new regulation on waste wood.
in the 7th environment action report, we have seen and recognised progress in individual areas, but also the challenges we face, particularly in the areas of air, water, food.
and we know that europe is changing very rapidly and also, thank god, in the area of environmental parameters, we are making progress in many ways.
but certainly biodiversity, and i'm glad that on may 20 we're going to celebrate the first world bee day, which will be in slovenia, and it's kind of an indicator of the state of bees and the environment in nature.
both migrants and refugees leave their countries due to economic or social hardships, persecution, conflict, poverty or even climate change.
moreover, the eu and australia engage in cooperation on combating terrorism, as well as in the fields of migration and asylum, research and innovation, education, culture and environmental protection.
i am assuming that this agreement will also not lead to a lowering of social, environmental and labour standards and that we will share australia's high ambitions in the service sector.
it is also very important in the area of biodiversity that we have successfully regulated the area of seed production to some extent in this regulation.
nevertheless, many priorities and principles have been key components of our cohesion policy, acting as a stimulus to local and regional development: waste prevention, recycling, eco—design and similar measures create savings, increase turnover and create local jobs in various sectors.
in the 2014—2020 period, cohesion policy invests in improved waste management with more than eur 5.5 billion.
for waste, this means that the investments are made based on waste management and prevention plans, and for innovation, on smart specialisation strategies.
this is a broad challenge, profoundly changing our economies, which requires innovation, behavioural change, improved waste prevention and management, know—how, skills and administrative capacity, among other things.
among the priorities included in the commission’s proposal is an increased focus on the upper strategies of the waste hierarchy, excluding landfilling and the least desirable treatment operations from the scope of the funds, to adapt regional waste management systems to the new long-term targets.
with this area of the circular economy, and in conjunction with all the european funds, we are making a big push towards environmental objectives, resource use and, at the same time, green jobs.
the question of the circular economy and cohesion policy is extremely important, particularly because it must be incorporated into the whole cycle of the so-called cohesion policy, which must be targeted and one of the important objectives of the circular economy must also be to protect the environment, health and food.
and that's where we come to one of the most pressing issues of our future, and that is waste management, plastic management, which is one of the biggest challenges, also for the circular economy, and if we take this seriously and also with the available resources that we have, we can reduce plastic as a hazardous resource very dramatically, and that also means a better future for food, for health and also for the environment.
the european parliament is working to ensure that competition in the digital single market is as complete as possible and to create an environment in which authors will be able to exercise all the rights they have, in proportion, of course, to the impact of this directive on businesses.
what was sustainable 50 years ago, when we had a completely different relationship between employees and retirees, is not sustainable today.
so, madam president, the plastic challenges that we face are important for the economy, for the economy, for the environment, and most importantly for our health, because the consequences of consuming microplastics are really catastrophic.
you're directing all your energy exclusively to safety.
air pollution is killing millions of people around the world, and europe is no exception, and we need radical and drastic action.
and i'm convinced that with actions that could be much more ambitious, we can reduce co2 in the air, but that will also mean restructuring the automotive industry and finding new alternatives to oil, gasoline, including electric vehicles and other forms of energy.
excessive income inequality is detrimental to social cohesion and also hinders sustainable economic growth.
it is true that public procurement can be an excellent tool for achieving many policies, and this was the purpose of public procurement, not only in the economic but also in the social, labour law, environmental, health, gerontological and demographic change fields.
first, we are dramatically improving the health of our population, reducing food waste, reducing unfair practices, shortening the journey from farm to farm, preserving and developing rural areas and creating greater self-sufficiency and, of course, new jobs.
i share the ambition to halt biodiversity loss by 2020, but do we realize how much time we have left to do anything about it?
but i am convinced that the only way to change the climate is to change our development and economic paradigm.
i welcome the proposed legislation as it tighten up the maximum available limit value for certain environmental pollutants such as lead and other harmful bacteria, while introducing new upper limits for certain endocrine disruptors.
i myself, as a shadow rapporteur on the econ committee, have looked at single-use plastic in detail, and it is true what my colleagues say: we are drowning in plastic, we are using it even where its use has no meaning, no sustainable reason, except that the market has created this need.
it's a habit to change, but not overnight, and that's why i want to make more of an awareness, a learning about the damage we're doing to the environment.
and while we have to realize, of course, that there are alternatives, and that in fact this fight against single-use plastics is also an opportunity for the economy, for new jobs, we just have to get there in time and invest in research as quickly and effectively as possible to achieve this goal, which is to make plastic waste zero.
on the one hand, we have very clear measures in the field of waste management and the direction we must take, that is, firstly, to use as little plastic as possible and, on the other hand, to produce what we have in such a way that it can be reused and, above all, recycled at the end of its life cycle.
on the other hand, it is important that we invest in developing new technologies to make materials that are much more sustainable and replace these great enemies of our continent.
the adoption of the energy union is one of the key objectives of this mandate of the commission and parliament.
i am therefore very pleased to welcome the package of three clean energy regulations.
this is true in the area of renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and, of course, the governance of the energy union.
reducing energy consumption is certainly the first step, but it is also very important to boost the use of renewable resources, to create new green jobs through this action, to reduce energy poverty and to ensure that europe remains and becomes a leading force in the fight against climate change.
we only produce 10% of the world's greenhouse gases, but europe has been showing the world the way for decades.
and here i think that long-term measures are needed, which must be based on scientific evidence, not on some short-term needs and measures, and in this way also ensure sufficient renewable fish stocks.
the number of people affected is increasing, and climate change is accelerating the spread of disease.
the last thing i want to mention is the environment, environmental issues.
i think we are also under-reporting the environmental problems in kosovo, and i would like to draw attention here to the serious problem facing pristina, namely air pollution, which is one of the highest in europe.
systemic changes in the economy, improvements in the business environment, contract enforcement, the introduction of controls and transparency of data on public procurement, state aid and the use of european union funds, etc.
and within those areas, there are a number of life programs that we're pursuing environmental goals with.
with five or ten billion dollars, we can't save the environment.
but if we align the objectives with agricultural policy, energy policy, cohesion funds, we can do a great deal.
the partners commit to work for peace, security, counter-terrorism, poverty reduction, implementation of the paris climate agreement and much more.