the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion.
on wednesday, we have the chance to make a big improvement in the rules so that in the future we can use less energy and switch to renewable fuels.
a more efficient use of energy is a huge opportunity for europe.
with more ambition, we can get more innovation and a better economy, which in turn leads to more jobs and climate change.
ensure that the s&d group's ambitious demand for a 40% energy efficiency target is supported.
i would also like to say a few words about renewable energy.
if we're going to get to the paris agreement, we're going to have to use the best climate tools we have.
don't waste it.
too detailed regulations in this area destroy the forest's ability to convert to better climate benefits and thus to a sustainable society.
colleagues, do not waste it on wednesday.
then we take responsibility for the climate.
let it remain a competence for the member states, because it is only there that you have the knowledge and the competence to judge what is sustainable.
it is only there that you can reduce carbon dioxide emissions via full-scale reliance on bioenergy.
second, energy governance is about making the european energy union a reality and reaching the targets.
there are no differences among the main groups in this parliament about reducing carbon dioxide emissions, and we agree on that target.
we are now discussing the conditions for a european energy policy.
this week we're going to make decisions that will affect energy policy for a long time to come, decisions that are crucial to the climate if we're going to have a future planet that our grandchildren can live on.
we will also make high demands on energy efficiency, and we want the eu to steer energy policy with regional energy markets that favour renewables and with legislation that requires reduced emissions.
we now have the opportunity to revolutionise the eu's energy policy and we greens will fight for it.
climate change is affecting marine ecosystems and fisheries are exerting significant pressure on marine ecosystems.
i call for a transparent process with proper environmental investigations, greater transparency for civil society and public accountability for those who represent us in the international seabed authority.
i am very proud to stand here today to present the first report in the european parliament on climate justice.
in this report, the european parliament recognises the fact that the impacts of climate change are unevenly distributed and not gender neutral.
climate justice aims to protect the most vulnerable and ensures a fair sharing of the burdens and benefits of climate change and its effects.
women are as important actors as men and can play a crucial role in developing our climate policy.
therefore, women must be equally represented in the decision-making process and implementation of climate policy.
the report also makes an important reference to the fact that climate change is a driver of migration.
by 2050, the un estimates that the world could have up to 200 million people who have been driven from their homes because of climate change.
the first gender equality plan under the paris agreement was adopted at the latest bonn climate summit.
all member states should now choose a focal point for gender equality and climate action - a major step forward for an issue that has been so under-prioritized and under-worked.
the un system is working to include climate refugees in the global migration strategy, and in that work we call on the eu to be proactive.
people who lost everything in floods and droughts today have no rights and are increasingly becoming climate refugees.
climate refugees are about rising temperatures and rising water levels, but when we talk about climate justice, we often talk about people in other parts of the world, in the countries that are most affected by these consequences.
but even in my country, sweden, in the north, the effects of climate change are being felt dramatically.
the reindeer-herding sami of norrland live on the front line of climate change.
in two years, an ecosystem the size of italy has disappeared to the bottom of the sea.
i don't think there's a clearer example of the looming climate crisis.
the answer to all of these challenges is to stop and adapt to climate change and protect the most vulnerable through an inclusive and feminist climate agenda.
with this report, we will have adopted a common definition of what climate justice actually is and a set of tools that can channel resources to those who need it most.
it is often noted that eu member states are very different in size, culture and climate.
in addition to telecommunications, infrastructure, markets and cyber security, the idea that our future will be digital also underpinned legal cooperation, energy, internal security, defence, agriculture, space and many other areas.
during the estonian presidency, landmark decisions were made in defence cooperation, climate policy and the social dimension.
climate change is slow but it will influence the freedoms and quality of life of future generations.
the presidency’s priorities also include an open innovative european economy, a safe and secure europe, a digital europe and an inclusive and sustainable europe.
i would also like to point out that there are obvious links between different facets of the threat environment.
so that is why we need to have a proposal that is capable of continuously adjusting to a constantly changing security, technological and economic environment, and we need – as you so rightly say in your report – to make the system future proof.
it is good that the commission is now talking more about human rights and sustainability in trade policy, but so far it has mostly been dialogue meetings and no binding rules.
the parts of the agreements that are supposed to protect large companies, on the other hand, are binding, such as the possibility for companies to sue countries that introduce environmental and consumer protection rules.
is it really good for the environment?
what the world needs now is not more power for big business, but rules to protect the environment and workers that really work.
it is time to introduce binding rules in trade agreements for the environment and for the protection of workers and to support, with vigor, the work in the un for an agreement which will make large companies respect human rights.
the economic crisis has also meant lost time for many young people, so it is important that the youth guarantee be of high quality, that it not be another waste of time.
everything has its time and i'm one of those who have fought and been really tough in the negotiations to get this to become a stronger climate legislation, but today i was going to be happy.
i think it is important for future fights in climate legislation that we also celebrate when we have tightened up legislation and put in place a better one, in line with the paris agreement.
this has been a long and tough negotiation, and it is clear that the views on climate are divided, both in the european parliament and in the eu member states.
on the one hand, there are the progressives who see the opportunity and want to do more to solve the climate threat.
on the other hand, we have the conservatives who want to keep their heads in the sand and who are happy to cling to old fossil fuels and keep the emissions trail.
it has also been important for us to make the transition to a climate-smart society in a more equitable and socially sustainable way.
climate work is a matter of concern to all of us.
the eu has a vision of being a world leader in climate change, and in may the commission will present most of the policies for the next seven years and will show how the budget and the eu's future research and innovation policy will look.
the cornerstone of the eu's next research and innovation framework programme must be the climate, because if we fail to innovate here, well, then it doesn't matter what comes after that.
we're going to make sure that we have good, sustainable transportation and renewable energy that actually delivers what we promised each other in paris.
the climate can't wait.
this is why the communication is an action plan built around five priority areas: the first is improving knowledge and data; the second, supporting sustainable social change; the third, priority protection; the fourth, prosecution; and the fifth priority is combating fgm worldwide.
but no sustainable change can happen without involving the local communities, and we need to work hand in hand with civil society at grass-root level to empower girls to speak up and to change behaviour, to promote changed behaviour, including in refugee camps, as was said here, for girls on the move.
essentially the issue is, of course, less about how much information truck users should give away to help us know how much co2 emissions they produce and more about how much information they should give away so that chinese competitors can get their upper edge.
the principal question, which is probably more important, is that the european parliament plenary should decide on the mandate for the european parliament to enter into negotiation and should not regularly delegate that decision to the environment committee, or any other committee for that matter.
it is also important that the report highlights the need for climate justice and the situation of women in poorer countries.
this is particularly important given that women are key agents of change at local level in addressing the impacts of climate change.
we want it to help stop climate change, to strengthen democracy and we are working on all of these.
trade policy deals with fundamental issues of democracy, human rights, workers' rights, consumer safety, public health, and basic climate and environmental regulations.
we believe that it is no longer enough to have the slogans that we are going to export democracy or we are going to export equality or human rights or sustainable development or any of the other areas that we care so much about.
international trade policy has rested somewhat on an outdated view, which has meant that all demands on the environment and human rights or gender equality have been answered with the reply 'ah, they don't belong here, you can fix them elsewhere with some other tools or in another negotiation'.
we believe that ilo standards and the un sustainable development goals are central to this.
we also believe that there should be binding rules on respect for human rights, democracy, working conditions and the environment.
we took it upon ourselves to formulate some of the principles, and it is true that trade polices cannot fix everything, but it cannot be free-floating, from human rights, from women’s rights, from environmental rights and public health.
i am aware how sensitive this issue is, but we have neither the energy nor the time for these almost childish name games.
at the same time, the eu and the us are losing the energy to direct the energy that we should have been directing towards china and the very unfair trade relations that china has.
we have reached the end of the road as far as this is concerned, the climate legislation package, but that does not mean that the work on climate legislation is over, but we will see more initiatives coming.
we also know that we are negotiating at the same time something that is at least as important for climate and for industrial and economic growth, and that is the whole energy union package.
if we can get it to land well and progressively and forward-looking in how we shape the design of the energy market and in how we get to a progressive and forward-looking renewable energy directive, then we will be able to solve even more.
we are also seeing the full-scale effects of the energy union, which has started, i hope.
the legislation we call the waste package raises ambitions for both recycling and reuse within the eu.
for the first time, targets are being set to reduce marine litter and tackle food waste.
now we are raising the ambition so that this waste is used instead of going directly from the field to the garbage heap.
no more toiling and throwing away, let's move forward to a future where waste is our best friend!
in the last eurobarometer, last year, citizens pointed out that they want europe to deliver on climate change, on combating terrorism, and on migration.
mr president, i do not expect an answer today, but simply an opening-up, listening to the voices that are rising from all over europe and asking us why so much waste and not a more efficient, more coherent europe that preserves our planet, faithful to the paris agreements.
the vote on the burden-sharing of eu climate policy is one of the most important climate votes of this term, but it is also perhaps the biggest and clearest example of the swedish government's capital failure in both europe and climate policy.
this decision obliges sweden to take on the primary responsibility for reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
but because this is a zero-sum game, it means that poland hardly needs to reduce emissions at all and bulgaria does not need to reduce emissions at all.
sweden should have high ambitions in the field of climate, and we should be happy to set an example.
it is not just sweden that is affected, but above all the climate.
climate change is so serious and so urgent that we cannot afford to do anything but what is most cost-effective - and that is not to let those who are already doing a lot do even more, but to make sure that those who have done little do a lot more.
global challenges need global solutions and the eu as a global actor must do more to address the root causes of migration, from conflict to poverty and climate change.
europe could also ensure that oil and gas prices stay low by increasing financial support for fracking and climate-friendly energy.
it is a kind of framework for increasing sustainability, covering reuse, recycling and repair of products.
my focus has been primarily on the issue that i've been pursuing for 10 years: food waste.
i've been working to get us, for the first time, a new definition of food waste and a common method to measure its reduction.
in line with the un sustainable development goals, the eu aims to halve its food waste by 2030 compared to 2014. member states are encouraged to exchange best practices and to develop specific incentive programmes to reduce food waste.
the situation in the eu is wrong when companies refuse to compensate consumers for misleading information on environmental performance.
the car sector is crucial for meeting our eu climate targets so we also need to improve the measurement of real-life co2 emissions as soon as possible.
the new deal for consumers the commission is concerned by mass harm situations affecting interests of consumers, as illustrated by the revelations in september 2015 about car manufacturers circumventing emissions standards for certain air pollutants, and sees the limits of existing national procedural means to secure appropriate consumer redress in such situations.
with this proposal, once adopted, victims of unfair commercial practices, such as misleading advertising by car manufacturers not in compliance with the union regulatory framework for type approval of vehicles or environmental legislation, will be in a position to obtain remedies collectively.
the current procedure also has no value added for safety and environment and creates problems for the internal market of used vehicles.
the deletion of the delegation to the commission to regulate co2 in-use testing defeat device (article 91) the commission regrets that the initial commission proposal to regulate in-service-conformity of co2 emissions through implementing legislation was not supported by the co-legislators.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion.
the fraud of diesel emissions, dieselgate, whereby authorities and consumers were deliberately deceived to the detriment of the environment and human health, has cost a lot in confidence with not very much in europe in terms of money for industry, and that is a problem in itself.
that is why many people are now calling for new, stricter requirements, stricter regulations, lower emissions in different types of legislation.
as a member of the committee on the environment and as responsible for the matter, i am really proud of the work we have done, especially that we have secured funding for the control, because without money there is rarely anything.
in poland restrictions have already been passed on the right to the civil society organisations to demonstrate during the december un climate change talks in qatar.
children have the right to a safe environment free from violence.
in sweden, the environment party has given over 9,000 unaccompanied children a second chance to stay, as the long process of adjudication has meant that they have reached the age of 18 while waiting for the notification.
our eu objective is to restore and maintain our fish stocks above levels that ensure maximum sustainable yield.
in addition, eu vessels must also comply with a range of other regulatory frameworks such as labour standards, training requirements, ship safety, environmental legislation, taxation rules and sanitary requirements.
all this is to ensure that we as consumers can be sure of the quality of our seafood, but also that it has been caught in a way that respects our labour laws, environmental standards and other rules that are standard across the eu.
in the light of the fact that more than 30% of the world's fish stocks are overfished and almost 60% are fished at the sustainable limit, it is reasonable to review the requirements we have to place on fish that will gain access to the eu market through importation.
the possibility of class action lawsuits is becoming increasingly important in strengthening consumer, environmental and public health protection across the eu.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
second, don’t target the environment with these tools: too many duties today are targeted at environmentally friendly goods such as biodiesel, ethanol, solar panels and, soon, electrical bicycles.
implementing the sustainability chapter is important, and also not stopping to evaluate how this is best done.
we must ensure that products on our market are designed to save both energy and raw materials.
we know that our cell phones contain valuable and rare minerals that are often mined under terrible conditions in poorer countries, so the next step is to introduce ethical and environmental criteria, such as origin labeling and extraction of raw materials used in our products.
human rights and the environment must be at the heart of our eu legislation.
we have also highlighted the legislation proposed by the commission and the need to ensure the predictability and sustainability of employment.
it is a country where freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of association but also environmental commitment can lead to innocent people being tortured and sentenced to death on all kinds of unclear grounds.
the connecting europe facility is an instrument for better connecting europe in the areas of transport, energy and digital policy and the western balkans cannot be excluded from it as the western balkans are already on the path to joining europe.
we simply cannot do without it, which is why we must do what we can to combat the emissions from trucks.
they account for a significant proportion of emissions.
in sweden alone, for example, road traffic accounts for about 30 percent of emissions, and trucks for 20 percent.
in sweden alone, emissions from heavy trucks fell by 11 percent last year.
market forces here work very well to help the environment.
that is why we now have legislation to ensure that we measure the co2 emissions from our heavy trucks better, and soon we will also be working together to find legislation to limit the emissions from those heavy trucks.
i have had a strong principle that the information that manufacturers should be obliged to publish about their products is the information we need to measure emissions, but some here seem to have the principle that all information about everything should be made available to everyone.
that's why i think the balance we've made here -- to make sure we publish information that reduces emissions, not that allows others to copy our trucks -- is what's important.
it would be a waste of time.
the agreed terms must also promote sustainable and socially responsible development, which creates jobs, contributes to greater equality and reduces poverty.
are you willing to take a stand and to open a constructive dialogue with your colleagues and with us for a roadmap for treaty change; for a more effective, a less costly, a climate-friendly european parliament close to citizens?
climate change, which leads to droughts and floods, is an increasingly contributing factor.
climate change has been a clear element for many years, but it is overshadowed by other more direct and visible problems.
workplaces should ensure a physically and mentally safe and healthy working environment throughout people’s working life, and active and healthy ageing for workers.
it is time for the eu to take the lead even more clearly today and show that today's plastic consumption is not sustainable.
plastic waste is a global problem and the eu needs to show much clearer leadership.
as we tackle the environmental impact of plastics, we must also ensure that hazardous chemicals are phased out and replaced by a toxic-free cycle.
while we only see about one percent of the plastic in the oceans, most of it is hidden beneath the surface, absorbing chemicals that can be harmful to both human health and the environment.
i therefore want the commission to present the action plan for a toxic free environment promised under the seventh environmental action programme.
it takes 20 seconds to produce new plastic, 20 minutes to use it, and more than 400 years for it to break down in the environment.
we don't have time; we have to deal with this big environmental threat now.
transport today accounts for a quarter of europe's greenhouse gas emissions, and now is the time to digitise the transport sector, so that we can both reduce emissions and ensure that we introduce the polluter pays principle.
for example, we need to introduce electronic road charges based on the climate impact of vehicles.
we also welcome the development of new innovations for smart mobility, but more needs to be done and therefore we call on the commission and the member states to promote more ambitious plans to make smart mobility sustainable, both in our cities and in the countryside.
finally, i would like to emphasise the role of innovation for a clean and sustainable future.
we need to ensure that raw materials and battery cells are produced and recycled in a way that is sustainable, transparent and fair.
an ambitious green transport policy is needed to reduce emissions quickly and efficiently.
we need to do this now because the climate cannot wait.
with blockchains, we also have the potential to democratize energy markets, for example.
so how are people and the environment affected?
forestry and mining are transforming the landscape, depleting biodiversity and making it difficult for reindeer to feed.
the mining industry's massive daily operations affect land and water and create huge amounts of hazardous waste.
the eu must be carbon neutral by 2050 to limit global warming to a maximum of 2 degrees.
road transport today accounts for 27% of emissions.
at the same time, passenger car traffic is expected to increase by 42% by 2050. it is clear that if we are to live up to the paris agreement, we must vigorously reduce the emissions of the new cars entering the market.
at the same time, however, conservative parties seem to believe that strong climate action is harming industry, but in reality the opposite is true.
it's no coincidence that tesla is based in california, which not only suffers from climate problems in the form of drought, but also has an ambitious climate policy that in turn fuels innovation and industrial development.
in sweden, for example, we provide long-term investment support for the conversion of the energy and industrial sectors.
now is the time - now is the time for proof - for the conservative parties who say the eu should act on climate to show that they are serious about keeping their promises.
it is not difficult to live up to or bask in the glamour of climate agreements if you do not intend to live up to them.
today, cars and vans account for up to one fifth of europe's total carbon dioxide emissions.
climate emissions must be reduced in all sectors of society if we are to meet both the eu and the paris agreement climate goals.
this is why this framework is one of the most important pieces of eu climate legislation at the moment.
we are working to send a clear signal to the market that it pays to invest in climate-smart vehicles and to be at the forefront of the development.
there is already more efficiency, fewer cars and more climate-friendliness in the use of a cloud provider located in another member state.
that’s why i urge them to not consider public procurement as an administrative burden, but a way to promote a smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, to force innovation to help smes to gain new markets, create new jobs.
it is time to ban fossil fuels and invest in climate in the most vulnerable regions and people.
the un panel on climate change is very clear: for every degree of global warming, the human rights consequences will be catastrophic, and we will see millions of climate refugees.
that's why it's so incredibly important to limit emissions now.
climate action is not just about limiting emissions, it is also about adapting to a changing climate, transferring technology to poor regions, building capacity for the most vulnerable people and a just transition to a green economy.
if we don't invest in gender equality, we're not going to be able to cope with the climate.
we greens believe that a progressive climate policy with the power to change must always go hand in hand with a fair development, where we guarantee the rights of the most vulnerable people and regions.
the un climate panel reported last week that there is a high risk that we will not reach the paris agreement.
i will support 55% by 2030 and i expect all my colleagues to stand behind it, so that we have a good message for the climate conference in december.
this means that large quantities of toxic waste in the form of ammunition are disappearing into the water that actually supplies drinking water to more than a quarter of a million people.
climate change is also likely to make more europeans want to draw their water from this drinking water reservoir, the vättern.
we have delivered on climate change and security, but when it comes to migration, there is a complete failure.
the transport sector is the only sector where emissions have still increased since 1990. if we are to achieve the goals we set out in the paris agreement, it is time that road transport starts paying for its environmental costs.
it makes freight transport by fossil-fuelled trucks more expensive, but thereby strengthens the competitiveness of rail and boat freight transport and thus also provides incentives for the environmental efficiency of truck transport.
it is completely unreasonable and undermines the green transition to a sustainable transport sector.
the regulation on the governance of the eu's energy union and on climate action is one of the most significant regulations we have been able to deliver in energy and climate policy during this mandate.
for the first time, we have a unified and unifying tool to bring order to climate policy.
we often disagree, not least on climate policy, but given the very urgent situation, i am very happy that we have been able to come together, to agree and to show a common willingness to compromise.
the consequences of climate change are becoming more and more obvious, and we see how it will become more and more costly and painful if we do not act.
in recent weeks, we've been getting reports from the ipcc on how far we are from meeting our climate goals.
we're seeing a clear climate policy framework to get us all the way to paris now beginning to take shape as we finally get to a zero-emission goal.
we are demanding that all countries must produce national energy and climate plans and that a mechanism be put in place to identify when our actions are not in line with our objectives, so that we can correct course with a firm target towards paris.
this legislation also shows how the eu is for the first time starting to work with carbon budgets.
it is an important and historic step towards having a scientifically sound climate policy.
the climate will not be saved by fancy speeches but by science-based policies and carbon accounting.
this regulation is a first important step towards the union taking its climate responsibility.
with this roadmap, we are now laying the foundations for a future climate policy framework that ensures that the eu is doing its part to achieve the goals of the paris agreement.
this week, europe is taking another step towards a more efficient and climate-smart society.
all the calculations show that the more energy we save, the better it is for society, the climate, human health, our energy security.
we are also creating new jobs and growth by investing in more efficient energy use.
as the lead negotiator for the environment committee, i've been involved throughout the process.
i was of course particularly pleased to see the environment committee's ambition to achieve 40% energy savings by 2030. i have unfortunately seen some dilution of that position and i can see that we did not really go all the way.
with a target of 32.5% more energy efficiency by 2030, hundreds of thousands of new jobs will be created in europe while reducing climate emissions, reducing our fossil fuel imports and improving health.
we are laying the foundations for greater energy security within the union, where we are not dependent on third countries outside the union.
that is why we have included in this and other environmental and climate legislation, such as the ets regulation, a review clause which means that after we have made the major review of the paris agreement 2023, we will also review our own legislation to see if it is sufficiently robust.
i am particularly pleased to have been involved in negotiating the renewable energy package, which is of the utmost importance not only for the energy transition but also for jobs across the european union.
however, i am sorry to hear colleagues here today spreading a lie that is not true, that we who come from countries with a lot of forests only want to export biomass to those who have a lot of carbon.
carbon budgets are one of the most important instruments we have to ensure a scientifically robust climate policy.
it is an easy-to-understand and effective instrument to ensure that we achieve our climate goals.
it is time that climate policy was treated as seriously as fiscal policy.
a european carbon budget opens the door to that.
then we can see, in black and white, how much carbon dioxide we have left to spend and match our climate action to that amount.
just as europe's finance ministers are now being held accountable for their countries' budgets, i hope that the climate ministers of the member states will be held accountable in the same way.
it should not be possible to overstep its country's carbon account without consequences.
building on this work on the road to a future european cohesion, ambitious climate legislation, with a proper emissions budget for the union, we can bring order to climate policy.
we need to make sure that our voters get the climate policy that they expect.
for my part, i want the eu to tackle the challenges that we have to tackle together: all the national challenges – migration, terrorism, the deepening of the single market, climate change, etc.
also, goal 16 in the sustainable development goals (sdg) states that peace, stability and human rights are deeply connected to sustainable development.
following the debate last month on the proposal on co2 emission standards for cars and vans, this is another key proposal to implement the 2030 climate and energy framework and continue to follow up on our commitments under the paris agreement.
shortly before the upcoming cop24 in katowice, the recent intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) special report on 1.5 degrees celsius has once again demonstrated the urgency of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in all sectors.
first, we need to act to tackle the growing co2 emissions from heavy—duty vehicles.
without action, these emissions – which represent almost 25% of road transport emissions – are set to increase by almost 10% by 2030. this new legislation will therefore help to reduce emissions from heavy—duty vehicles, while also supporting the member states in meeting their binding national targets under the effort sharing regulation.
as has been said by the rapporteur, other countries, such as the united states, china and japan, have already set emissions standards and competition in the global market is fierce.
this legislation will contribute to europe’s economic prosperity and global competitiveness, keeping us at the forefront of developing low—carbon solutions.
the commission proposal, underpinned by a thorough impact assessment, is both ambitious and realistic because it strikes the right balance between the three main policy objectives, which cannot be considered in isolation: first, achieving environmental benefits; second, bringing savings for transport operators; and third, supporting employment, growth and competitiveness.
the proposed 15% and 30% targets by 2025 and 2030 will bring significant environmental benefits, estimated at around 54 million tonnes of co2 in the period 2020 to 2030. this is equivalent to the total annual emissions of sweden.
we therefore propose to support the deployment of these technologies through a system of super credits, while preserving the environmental integrity of the co2 targets.
if we are to meet the climate challenge, we need to reduce emissions from heavy transport and radically.
it is therefore good that we now have this legislative proposal, so that for the first time in the eu we are taking seriously the issue of reducing emissions from heavy duty vehicles.
after all, it is not we in this room, in this house, who are seriously implementing the reduction of co2 emissions from trucks and buses, but it is the skilled technicians of the vehicle manufacturers with the right conditions who can make the difference.
this often and rapidly develops into a bidding process, where the impression is given that those with the highest demands for emission reductions are the ones that are most beneficial to the climate.
it is only by replacing the old trucks and buses with high emission levels that we will really reduce emissions.
unfortunately, i do not think that the committee on the environment will succeed in doing so, for three main reasons.
the last requirement, which we find difficult to understand how it will actually help to reduce emissions, is to ask for a specific share of low-emission vehicles, in practice electric as early as 2025. we need a switch to electricity, but we in this house do not know and cannot determine exactly when that technological change will occur.
for a large number of these substances, we do not know what the effects are for us humans and for the environment, even though they should only be proven safe substances in our daily lives.
i will therefore fight to keep the limit value for decabde in line with the report of the committee on the environment, i.e.
this is important for human health, it is important for the environment and it is also important for the public's confidence in recycled materials to remain intact.
forests love humid and warm weather, and that's what climate change is giving us.
climate change is accelerating and is more widespread in our northern hemisphere.
the problem of a warmer climate and the spread of ticks goes hand in hand with other health problems.
this is a symptom of the great challenge we face: stopping climate change and living up to the paris agreement.
in its new climate strategy, the commission finally confirms what the paris agreement already commits the eu must become carbon neutral.
the strategy well describes how climate change can go hand in hand with economic development, enhanced competitiveness and new jobs.
it is crucial that this strategy is translated into new initiatives now stronger legislation, higher climate pricing and aggressive green investments.
it is time to act now because the climate cannot wait.
finally, i agree with you that more should be done to contribute to achieving the sustainable development goals, as we set out in the september paper.
that is one key in this, of course, but we are also working on identifying how the wto could contribute to achieving the sustainable development goals.
it has demanded a tremendous amount of energy and no other single european country would accept to change the name of a country, which is so deeply connected with identity.
we need to re-examine our foreign policy, the arms trade in europe, our climate emissions, which are driving people to leave and forcing them to move and migrate.
we must ban fossil fuels and realise our zero vision of a carbon-free europe, which we greens have fought for so long and which the european commission is now finally supporting.
these are terrible and catastrophic figures which show where our focus must be, namely on safeguarding biodiversity and the habitats where animals still live.
we need climate action now!
more and more people want to live climate-smart and the awareness is increasing every day.
in my home country of sweden, for example, about 24 percent of the population rank the climate challenge as the most important issue for the future.
the focus of the annual report is military, although civilian operations are almost twice as many, 11 out of a total of 17. i do not deny that we face many security threats: military, climate, terrorism, cyber threats and natural disasters to name just a few.
the connecting europe facility will determine the future of eu investment in transport and energy beyond 2020. to meet the paris agreement commitments, we need to invest in zero-emission transport rather than in the development of gas pipelines or motorways.
despite the recent declaration by the european commission that the eu should become climate neutral, a proposal is now on the table as if these decisions had not been taken.
it is incomprehensible that the majority in this parliament wants to design the connecting europe facility in a way that is totally incompatible with the commission's own climate strategy and the paris agreement.
to keep global warming to a maximum of 1.5 degrees, the eu needs to invest in cross-border projects that promote renewable energy and sustainable transport systems.
it is through investing in a fossil-free future that we have an opportunity to modernize our societies and achieve the climate-neutral project that we all want to see.
three years ago we adopted the paris agreement, and today, a month ago, the european parliament adopted legislation that says the eu must become climate neutral.
right now, the cop 24 climate summit is taking place in katowice, poland.
we can make the decision to climate-proof it.
we want one third of the proposed budget of 120 billion euros to go to the climate.
it will be over £100 billion for renewable energy, sustainable transport and new climate-smart innovations.
it will facilitate our joint work to get us all the way down to zero emissions.