- madam president, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the council is violating the rules of procedure - and not for the first time. we as members of parliament have the opportunity once a month to put a written question with priority, which, according to the rules of procedure, must be answered within three weeks. the council is now increasingly failing to meet this deadline. the most recent example is this: in october i submitted a question which has not been answered to date, namely, when does the council intend to finally implement the promised increase in europol staff salaries! this is not an isolated incident, but one that is becoming more frequent. i urge you to urge the council to respect the rules of procedure. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we all agree that the directive on the restructuring of credit institutions is long overdue. that is why we welcome them. finally, a uniform procedure is established and coherence is established between the reorganisation procedure and the insolvency regulation. it should be stressed that the provisions on the protection of creditors' rights are particularly important here, since they lay down the information to be given to creditors and the conditions for their payment. this ensures equal treatment of all creditors in liquidation proceedings, including those in countries other than the home member state. the text is quite good in its present form, but there were some ambiguities. the commission has also adopted a number of amendments to the committee's rules, including a number of amendments to the rules of procedure, which strengthen the overriding principle of universality and remove certain incompatibilities with the regulation on financial conglomerates that could lead to legal uncertainty. you have already noticed in the debate that we have different views on one point, namely, in particular, on amendments nos 3 and 5. the close parallelism between the restructuring and liquidation of credit institutions and insurance companies is not desirable in all aspects of this procedure. there are different views on this because many people think that these are different products, sometimes different markets, and that different products and different markets should be treated differently and not automatically equally. the common position is, in my view, balanced and has been improved in part by the amendments of the committee and the rapporteur, whom i thank, and the text should therefore be adopted as soon as possible and implemented by the member states. i regret that the dispute in the council has led to this delay of more than a decade. i would point out that the commission's first proposal was published in 1985 and the first reading of this house was held in 1987. i stress this also because in our debates - especially in the wake of the nice european council - we are constantly discussing the balance between the european institutions and in many cases we are discussing the need to speed up procedures. this is not just the case for parliament, as is often portrayed in public, although of course we can also go into more detail and speed up certain things. but this isn't about blame. the most important potential for speeding up procedures between the european institutions is undoubtedly the opinion-forming and decision-making process in the european council. this was again very clear. the commission proposal aims to ensure that a credit institution and its subsidiary in another member state can be wound up and liquidated in accordance with the principle of unity and universality. this is what this proposal for a directive provides.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i said in the debate on 5 july on 'evaluating the quality of school education' that it is in the classrooms of today, and not just in the classrooms, that the foundations of the future of young people are being laid. education, i.e. education, training and further education, must clearly be at the centre of all policy areas. education is not an end in itself, but a prerequisite for our economic and personal survival. the transition to the knowledge society, the globalisation of the economy, social, democratic and environmental change, and the profound changes in the world of work, not least because of the new technologies, are the major challenges of the third millennium, which also require new efforts in the field of education. i therefore welcome this report again in the european parliament's plenary, because the aim of this report is to improve school education and the evaluation of its quality. quality comparisons - whether internal or external - create competition, and if this raises the quality of education in european schools and also addresses the triple challenge of the information society, globalisation and rapid scientific and technological change, then this report has achieved its objective of giving a new impetus to educational efforts and a significant step has been taken at european level. let us therefore help make the implementation report which the commission is to present to the european parliament in three years' time a success. but let me end by saying something fundamental about the future of education, because i just came from an education symposium/federal congress of the austrian people's party. education is more than employability. it must aim at developing the whole personality of the young person. this comprehensive personality development includes basic knowledge, skills and competences, the transmission of values, musical and creative education, and health and sports education. second, a good knowledge base, which teaches what is important and leaves out what is not important, is still the basis for education in the 21st century. it is therefore an understatement to say that knowledge and information should only be obtained from the internet. if you don't have basic knowledge, you don't know where to get it. this knowledge base includes cultural techniques, reading, arithmetic and writing. the new technologies offer new opportunities for acquiring knowledge and applying cultural techniques. only those who have basic knowledge can properly handle, distinguish and differentiate knowledge in this age of the knowledge explosion. this report is therefore an essential contribution to making knowledge the centre of our policies.
- mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the world heritage, we have just heard the figures, is relatively unequally distributed. the majority of them are here in europe, which is something to be very proud of, but also shows that there are still some inequalities. the number of exhibits, or all the things that have been included in the world heritage list, is also very small compared to what is found in the world, and it is a drop in the bucket because there are many more sites that would deserve this status and support. this does not make the decision-making or selection process any easier. there are more refusals than commitments, and i think it is necessary to redefine the criteria as well. the diversity of cultural heritage underlines the identity of the regions themselves, and therefore it is primarily their responsibility to take it on and to carry it out, although it must be supported from outside, by the european union and by many other partners. these regional responsibilities include, among others, home and custom care, development of one's own regions and the like. i believe that these are criteria which must be met primarily in the regions. world cultural sites go beyond regional development. they are cultural treasures, witnesses to epochal changes and the uniqueness of nature. they have an extraordinary universal value. the architectural heritage, the cultural landscape and the urban heritage are interrelated, but they are incomplete as a whole unless they also include monuments of contemporary history, for example from the world of work, such as the development of working life, the design of factories, machinery and so on. they show the development of the work process of our document and in the world. the plundering of architectural treasures must therefore be combated as well as the thoughtless destruction of traces of social institutions. the rapid technological development and environmental change make it even more clear how important it is to be mindful of our natural heritage and to take responsibility for it, i.e. to protect it. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the selection of world heritage sites should therefore be based on a balance between historical sites, religious monuments, the different religions of prehistory, contemporary history and natural heritage, and the criteria for evaluation should be modified in this direction. the preservation of cultural heritage is not only a matter of great responsibility, but also of great cost. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. let me take you right back to where mrs. theato left off. we cannot really imagine, madam commissioner, what the purpose of a consultative body on financial irregularities should be, as you imagine. this is the case with the new office for internal administrative investigations which the commission is planning to set up. what is the purpose of this body and office when olaf is responsible for all serious offences against the interests of the community, not just fraud, according to the commission's decision? i would remind you once again that you yourself have decided this and are in the process of creating some apparently useless superstructure in your imagination. the report by mrs van der laan rightly states that parliament is not yet satisfied with the commission's progress on staff policy. this is particularly true of the long overdue reform of disciplinary procedures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources allocated to the community are used to the full. should commission officials and other servants be liable for damages caused by them, at least within the limits of their financial capacity? the answer to that question has long been, in principle, yes. however, the corresponding provisions of articles 73 and 74 of the financial regulation have not been applied in any case. the reason given was that the procedures were not clear. anyone hoping that this will change in the course of the reform has been disappointed so far. the consultation paper on the reform of disciplinary procedures presented by vice-president kinnock on 29 november omits this very crucial question and postpones an answer to a later date. anyone can understand that. i can't follow that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a demand which has been on the table since january last year, as expressed in mr van hulten's report on the reform of the commission, and which was explicitly reaffirmed in mr stauner's report on discharge in 1998. i believe that this discharge, the very good report by mrs van der laan, also leaves open these questions which are central to the credibility of the administration of the european union. we have shown the way. we can only urge and invite you to follow this path, commissioner!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to say a few words about the excellent report by mr staes. first of all, i should like to address myself to you as a member of the bureau of this house. it was a disgrace to this house that we had to put up with such bureaucratic administrative delays in the question of whether or not we could send the rapporteur of the control committee of this house to bosnia-herzegovina. i hope, in the interests of those we represent here, that this will not happen again. i say this quite clearly because we - myself included - are usually critical of this in the commission. this time, unfortunately, we have to find out in our own house, and that is an unbearable state! secondly, this report by mr staes gives us hope in two ways. on the one hand, the commission is capable of learning. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the beginning of this programme for the balkans, aid was given as it so often was in the union, namely, it was decided at the green table in brussels and private companies were given the task of identifying the needs on the ground and distributing and spending the funds. that has been abolished and changed almost revolutionarily - also under pressure from this house. it shows that our initiatives are valuable and that the commission is capable of learning. commissioner, perhaps you can use this learning capacity which you have shown in the delegation in sarajevo as a model for other delegations in other countries!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am pleased that this report is being presented today. as an entrepreneur, i would like to congratulate the commission on its excellent work in these three areas, which is lacking in europe. the simple fact is that there is too little start-up capital available when starting a business, and that is why many young entrepreneurs have to give up early. of course, exports also represent a risk, and that is why it is particularly important to provide financial support for joint ventures, especially in the initial phase. the guarantee is to ensure that not everyone who is willing to become an entrepreneur can automatically endanger his existence and at least be financially ruined for the rest of his life. if we consider that there are about 7 billion available for venture capital in europe and 12 billion in america, then we should be thinking about how we can make up the difference. what can we do, particularly in the agricultural sector? the word bse itself would be an incentive to think about what kind of start-up companies we can start to improve food safety, to carry out blood tests, to develop therapies, etc. there is an urgent need for action. i would also like to stress that it is important for young entrepreneurs to get a commitment as quickly and reliably as possible. time limits should be set for a clear yes or no response, so as to avoid unnecessary risk. the implementation of the directive on combating late payment is also important, so that the money is actually in hand within a set deadline. i think that this is still too much hesitation. the commission should propose project management, develop 'best practice' methods, introduce benchmarks to check how long it takes from the first application to the successful creation of jobs, track payment flows and ultimately sell the whole thing to the public. in the pr field, a 'young entrepreneur of the year' award could be conceived to honour the entrepreneur who has created the most jobs in absolute terms and in percentage terms. this would prove at european level and, accordingly, in the member states that we are doing the right thing. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very grateful that none of the speakers have called for the relaxation of environmental regulations. the problem is not that the poor member states did not know what they were getting into. and they are now fully aware that they are simply and deliberately not complying with european legislation. they want to buy time and they know very well that nothing will happen to them because it takes a long time for the court to act. we are faced with a very deliberate devaluation of european legislation, and neither parliament nor the council should allow themselves to be subjected to that! they said to name the sinners. i am ashamed because austria is also one of those who have not complied with the habitats directive, but i would also like to protest, madam commissioner, because austria has not been lax in the pcb directive! we have done everything that needed to be done here very well, and we have done it before the european directive was adopted. we already had a waste management law in 1990 and a regulation banning halogenated substances in 1993. we are being wrongly accused. as far as the nitrates directive is concerned, austria's shortcomings have now been remedied. however, we are well aware that the implementation of the nitrates directive has been very problematic for all member states. the key problem in this context was that the high density of livestock in large parts of the union has caused great difficulties in many countries in complying with the limit of 170 kg nitrogen per hectare of agricultural area for the application of agricultural fertilisers. perhaps in the future we will have less to do with an excessive cattle density, because the cattle, the tortured and tortured creature, is defending itself at the moment. the form of bse we are facing today is probably a kind of revenge for the tortured animals. we should learn from nature to behave as we should and to obey the laws we have made.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i should like to begin by thanking mr parish very warmly for the very serious presentation of the situation of young farmers in europe in his report. i ask you, what do we do if we have no successors to take over our farms? it is important and right that we are undergoing structural change, but this must not lead to the total disappearance of this profession. if we want to continue to have agriculture in europe, we must also take care of our successors. we are in favour of a multifunctional model of agriculture, where farmers are not only responsible for producing food, but also where much of their work benefits society as a whole, which enjoys and recreates in an intact nature and a liveable rural environment. agricultural policy and rural policy as a whole live for and by its people. we must therefore create the conditions for young people in rural areas to see an opportunity to settle down and continue farming. the establishment and investment aid are essential for young farmers, but it is equally important that modern technologies are introduced. they need to be as familiar with computers and the internet as they are with seeds and animals in the barn. the training of young farmers is therefore becoming more and more important, and i am also advocating lifelong learning in agriculture and among farmers. let me say a few words about the social aspects. i have repeatedly observed that many farmers, for various reasons, do not want to hand over their farms to their children or successors in time. letting go, i know from personal experience, is difficult, but it's the only chance to ensure survival. i therefore appeal to the older generation to help the young and to open up to them and thus to the whole of the farming community the opportunities which they themselves have been given. of course, and i say this quite openly as a farmer, it is not helpful to talk about the difficulties of this profession all the time. i want to make it very clear that there is no profession that has only advantages or only disadvantages. in conclusion, i would like to say that i very much welcome the idea of farmers, both young and established, coming together to develop their farms, to exchange experiences and to create and implement innovative ideas. the commission's proposals are not without merit. we must encourage the next generations to take the future into their own hands with optimism.
mr president, we are always amazed at the imbalances that occur in nature. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the proposal for a regulation to create a special crisis response unit is one of those where the intention is entirely welcome, but implementation could fail because of bureaucratic hurdles and disputes over competence and influence. the european union has not played a very convincing role in crisis response and conflict resolution. the reason for this does not seem to be a lack of human or financial commitment. it is more a question of managing, planning and coordinating the different ideas and actions. however, the declaration of intent in this area to become more active in conflict resolution and crisis intervention must be interpreted as an important step in the right direction. the eu has so far done a great deal, in part through financial means, to improve the situation in crisis-affected areas. but money is not always a substitute for political will and political influence. if the eu is to play a stronger role in the future, the political will to be more involved in the measures involved is needed. i am only the representative of a small country, but i can assure you that austria, with its long tradition of neutrality and freedom from alliances, has a great deal of experience in the field of political mediation and crisis intervention and is accepted accordingly by the parties to the conflict. perhaps this is an area where the experience of smaller countries in the eu should be taken more into account. it's not so much about huge financial resources and big bloated organizations, it's more about the confidence that the opposing groups have in the offer of intervention in crisis operations and conflict mediation. and this is precisely where the eu has failed so far. we have an image problem with the partners in conflict in the many hotbeds of crisis in the world. this is not just a matter of new departments and budgets. what we are lacking, therefore, is the convincing intention to assume greater responsibility internationally in the field of mediation and crisis intervention.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am wearing the nice tie today, but i cannot help but notice that, as in amsterdam, we have had to experience in nice once again that the igc as an instrument is at an end. the convention, on the other hand, which has been praised so much, is not, in my view, a mature procedure. it could, however, serve as a basis for a working procedure. i would therefore like to outline an effective procedure - as i propose - in the context of the division of powers between the member states and the union, which has already been mentioned by both the president of the council and the president of the commission. in a first phase, parallel to the discussion initiated under the swedish presidency, a discussion and opinion-forming process at the level of national parliaments should take place at the earliest possible date, at the invitation of the european council, which would then, like the european parliament, have to submit a proposal on this delimitation of competences by about spring 2002. it is on this basis that a convention should be convened, involving constitutional experts, european law experts, representatives of national parliaments, the european parliament, national governments, but also the governments of the candidate countries and, of course, the court of justice and civil society, and commissioned to draw up a proposal for a catalogue, by the spring of 2003. this proposal would then require the commission to be instructed by the european council to submit a proposal for a division of powers in phase iii - this could be done by the end of 2003. finally, before the igc is convened, this proposal would have to be subject to a new national discussion in phase iv - i have included in my plan a little more phases than the commission president - which would have to be completed by mid-2004. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this will ensure a procedure with effective involvement of national parliaments, which was not possible in the convention until now, and will provide the heads of government with an agreed proposal. the existing system of coexistence of the institutions would be replaced by coexistence.
i have to say, madam president, to remove all doubt, i would like to make a clarification. austria had its first suspected case of bse on sunday, 14 january. i have the honour to inform the house that yesterday the institute in tübingen informed us that this case is negative. i hope that all other suspect cases for austria will also remain negative. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the ce marking is an essential basis for consumer protection. it is a purely quantitative measure. the only requirement is to demonstrate that existing european legislation is being complied with. this is certainly not enough for consumers. consumers also want to have quality testing and certification procedures so that they can determine whether a product is above average standards and thus meets their requirements. this is why third party certification is crucial, especially for safety components. we have seen in the eschede rail accident that very big accidents can happen if the railway only controls itself and does not carry out third-party certification. do you think we should increase third party certification in the european union in the future?
the commission has already done so. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport system is not affected by the crisis. the past year in particular has shown time and again that it is high time for more common european solutions to ensure that flights in european airspace are conducted in an orderly manner again, not to mention the beautiful dream of unlimited freedom over the clouds, which reinhard mey sings. but flying has to be safe above all else. we all want to ensure that flying is safe, that there are still improvements to be made, and first of all we want to thank mr simpson for his excellent report. however, there are different views on how to achieve greater security. i - and i am not fortunately alone in this opinion - wish that we should leave the practical task of regulating safety rules - in particular, for example, for cabin crew and related rules for the training of personnel - to the european aviation safety authority. it would be enough if the european legislator were to set out the objectives and not get lost in too many details. unfortunately, this position was not always a majority in the committee. the text we are going to adopt tomorrow contains some very detailed provisions, for example on the design of training courses and so on. less is more, right? in any case, europe still has a lot of work to do in the field of air transport. as in the case of nice in general, one could argue here in particular for less nation-state solutions and in return for more europe. the simpson report is a good step along this road. let us go to him tomorrow and then represent him in the next episode with political conviction!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the safety of europe's roads is a vital issue, and the figures speak for themselves: 42 000 deaths and 1.7 million injuries each year. something has to be done here. we must work to make our roads safer. the grief of families who lose a member in a car accident is great. our society is becoming more mobile, and i support that. that is why it is our duty to deal with the dangers. as politicians at european, national and regional level, we are called upon to assume our responsibility towards society and to advocate better and more adequate measures for road transport. the analysis of road accidents is crucial. the content of the accident statistics activity is thus the collection, analysis and interpretation of accident data. a systematic study of traffic can provide important data to improve safety and prevent accidents. the construction of transport, the design of roads and the people themselves are weak points. we must identify them and try to eliminate them as far as possible. i think this is a very important point. i think that traffic education is essential. the public's awareness of the dangers and risks associated with road transport is a prerequisite for the acceptance of measures. children who are particularly vulnerable in road traffic must already be explained correct behaviour in a playful way. young people must be informed of the dangers to themselves and to other road users they encounter after obtaining a driving licence. one point particularly concerns me: measures against the consumption of alcohol, but also against the taking of medicines and drugs while driving. many measures have already been taken and much information has been given on alcohol and driving. however, it is often not known that the use of drugs and medication can cause the same degree of impairment of consciousness and impairment of driving ability. the eu road safety programme should clearly define the main priorities. a systematic approach to this problem is particularly important. the commission and the member states must be asked to cooperate!
mr president, i would ask that the terrorist threats against this house be taken seriously and that the secretary-general draw up a plan to ensure the security of this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the central issue in all discussions must be the achievement of equal opportunities between men and women. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. the figures show that in almost all countries, at least half of the electorate is female, yet the number of women in decision-making positions in business and public office is strikingly low. i consider it a priority task of politics to remove all obstacles to equal opportunities. it is therefore a question of setting up a framework which enables women to determine their own individual life-style in a responsible manner. a policy which places this task on the shoulders of economic actors is doing its best to exploit the people concerned. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. it's not about quotas and affirmative action. let me say that the term itself is absurd. how can discrimination be positive? i want my job not because i'm a woman, but because i'm qualified to do it, and i think a lot of women represent the same thing. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, as the rapporteur has pointed out, the number of statements, resolutions and commitments on gender equality is quite respectable. the treaty of amsterdam is the legal basis and defines gender equality as one of the main priorities of european policy. the result shows slight progress. the deficits are nevertheless glaring. there is a strong imbalance in the participation of women and men in decision-making and there are alarming imbalances between member states. the participation of women in management and political decision-making is particularly low in europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. first of all, we must recognize that the reasons for the lack of equal opportunities in the labour market are the low representation of women in the european economy, in trade unions and in the public sector, as well as the inadequate social infrastructure, distorted stereotypes and low pay. an important area of approach is education. women must learn to claim leadership and decision-making, among other things. in all policy areas, both at european and national level, a 40% participation rate cannot be considered as a balance. the quota is therefore an important instrument for approaching this objective. it is not just a question of increasing the number of women, but also of enhancing their role in society and of recognising the quality of their work and occupation. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to enable them to take action in the field of equal opportunities. the improved participation of women in public life needs to be regularly reviewed on the basis of up-to-date statistics, which would also clearly show that we have not only achieved goals, but also that we have already made some setbacks. that means we must work for equality and at the same time defend what we have achieved.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. sustainable and profitable forestry and the wood industry are of great importance to europe in many ways. i would like to remind you of the environmental aspects as well as the ecosocial and economic aspects. wood as a raw material is the largest renewable energy source in europe. the regional policy importance of small and mediumsized enterprises in the wood processing industry and forestry as employers in rural areas cannot be underestimated and is an essential factor in a multifunctional agriculture and forestry. together with the wood industry, forestry provides millions of jobs in europe. as far as climate protection and the objectives of the kyoto protocol are concerned, sustainable forestry can make a significant contribution here. worldwide, we need to protect our forests to protect us from disasters. i am therefore very grateful to the previous speaker for her comments. i would also like to draw attention to the protection and protection of forests in the alps. targeted proposals should be further promoted in the building sector. the use of wood and wood products in construction must be encouraged and wood must be used more widely in place of other building materials. the high co2 binding over long periods of time is another advantage of wood. i therefore support the approach of raising public awareness through targeted marketing and advertising of wood products. the information and advice on the benefits must be provided throughout europe. i am not in favour of a common forestry policy, but of a common forestry strategy in europe. the commission should fulfil its coordinating role. the forestry aspects should be coordinated within a single directorate-general and, where appropriate, within the directorate-general for agriculture . the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new programme. without forestry, there is no timber industry. i therefore hope that the house will follow this logic and adopt amendments nos 1 and 2. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already done so. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr seppänen, and expressing my regret. the report contains almost everything that is important on the subject of forests and their consequences, and much of it is probably correct. i would like to make a few points, however. first of all, i am a little uncomfortable with the reference to the dramatic developments in this area when it comes to mergers and acquisitions. we're seeing it in the paper industry right now, that more and more companies need to come together, that they think they have to do that to keep up with the competition. my concern is that we are increasingly in a europe that is hopefully growing together, getting into situations like canada or other countries where the pressure that has been put on the companies is simply being passed on to the forest that is being most brutally exploited. i hope that the commission will make some sensible proposals, perhaps even in the form of directives. on the environment, we should not be fooled. nine years after rio, we are still far from being able to make sense of the sustainability issues that were outlined there. we shall probably have to adapt ourselves in the long run to the fact that we will have to take over with our northern forests what the tropical forest cannot do in the third world for whatever reason. so in the future, the role of the forest, above all, is going to be very, very much about conservation, which brings me to the third point, which is the internet. i personally very much hope that the vision of a paperless office or perhaps even a paperless parliament, through the possibilities of the internet, will not only cause smiles but can become a reality. this could have an impact on industrial jobs, but would be environmentally sound. that's the last point. if i may summarize: it gives a negative impression when you read the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the steel industry may be a cautionary reminder. i do not think that subsidies in this area make sense. the approach in amendment no 3 to promote small and mediumsized enterprises is very positive. it is also very, very important that we think about cartel issues in the light of these new developments in industry.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. wood is a renewable material, a building material with a future. wood regrows, wood rots, and then it reintegrates into the natural cycle as it was created. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think wood will be much more important to us in the future than it has been in the past. the wood industry faces many problems because of the high international use of wood in construction. it is faced with a multitude of technical barriers to trade, an overwhelming number of national standards and authorizations, and sometimes also bureaucratic requirements for inspection, monitoring and certification. the european commission should apply slim here. the wood sector may be a good place to establish best practices perhaps even best . i would like to thank hans-peter martin, because the promotion of small and mediumsized enterprises is of course a central and important concern, and here we have an important partner in the commission. but it is also a question of adapting building laws and regulations accordingly, because fire regulations in particular vary widely in europe. we believe that it is high time to adopt the directive on construction products. this directive in particular will make it possible to make substantial progress in the marketing of wood. as far as world trade is concerned, i would like to emphasize that japan has very restrictive regulations in this area. we should also discuss this, because wood is not just a material for construction and construction, but it is of vital importance for the future of biotechnology. that is why we want to promote the smaller biomass power stations. these are essential to the independence of europe's energy supply, and wood will play a major role here in the future.
i have to say, madam president, if you prefer mercy to justice, then we shall be happy to do so. i would like to support mrs pack and also make a point of principle: if we cut short, there is no reason why the reports should not be voted on because the rapporteurs will not be here on thursday evening! we are in agreement with the procedure followed today. but i would ask you again to remind the committee chairmen that attendance should be guaranteed until thursday evening.
in writing. - (de) politics must develop a system which makes it possible to ensure that the principle of transparency in the cost of transport modes is upheld. this resolution is an important step and an invitation to the commission to finally put forward concrete proposals. transport problems can only be solved by european unity. as a representative of a country facing major problems with alpine transit, i call on the european union to tackle this problem with greater energy, because it has not yet sufficiently assumed its responsibilities in this area. fairer competition between modes of transport is only possible if external costs are included in the charges. in this harmonized system, it is also imperative to take ecological and geographical aspects into account. all this in the interests of the environment and the people.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is indeed extremely regrettable that we have to deal with turkey again today, or with the situation in the prisons in turkey. i wish we could give turkey credit today for having resolved the difficult situation peacefully. but unfortunately, that is not the case. we, as the european parliament, must therefore demand that turkey itself investigate - and where necessary, that the commission does its part to investigate - how this catastrophic situation in turkey, with regard to the prisons, the hunger strike as such, but also the military and police intervention that has caused so many deaths, came about. secondly, we absolutely must demand that there be transparency in the treatment of prisoners, that prisoners have the right to see doctors, not only under the supervision of police and security guards, but also in conditions where doctors can really get serious examinations and results. thirdly, we must ask turkey to try to build consensus in the country, particularly with human rights organisations and with regard to the human rights situation in prisons, to consider how to improve it and to create a basic consensus on this. fourthly, we must ensure that the prisoners who are currently political prisoners under existing and old regulations - and turkey has often admitted that they exist - are released. this would certainly alleviate the situation in the overcrowded prisons. fifth: we must demand that the laws be changed. it is not enough to say that prisoners are treated properly after their incarceration and that in the event of a hunger strike, we try to resolve things peacefully. it's more like, why are so many people in prison? many people are in prison because of laws that punish conscientious offenses - perhaps in the form of written statements or speech - rather than acts as such. that is simply not acceptable in a modern democracy. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear indication of the extent to which the commission is prepared to take action in this area. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i am very much in favour of this proposal. i had the opportunity to speak to the minister of justice of turkey the day before yesterday and i drew his attention to the urgency of this situation. i would therefore ask you to take action in this regard.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you very much, commissioner. you have said that we will also need new rules for enlargement, probably also more money. i would like to ask for new rules on this subject and therefore also for new ideas on this subject. is it really possible, and will it make sense in the future, to limit the funding to a certain geographical area and to a certain area? would it not be more sensible to give greater prominence to certain project ideas or to certain priority areas of support than has been the case so far? then we could spend the money more efficiently.
mr president, as a representative of a country which once had direct access to the mediterranean, i would like to express my particular support for an improvement in the eu's relations with the mediterranean region and therefore also for this report. we have not only a political obligation, but also a historical one. the eu's activities in the field of peacekeeping in the mediterranean and, in particular, in the middle east are a particular responsibility which, unfortunately, has not been met by the representatives and members of the european union, and in particular by its foreign policy representatives. however, an independent and active european peace policy must also remain an objective of the eu. however, there are other areas besides security reasons why a stronger eu involvement in the mediterranean would be important. in the social and cultural fields, support for democratic developments, intervention in cases of human rights violations, promotion of economic developments and improvement of dialogue and cooperation in as many areas as possible, the eu can and should spare no expense in order to document tangible progress. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is a step in the right direction. i have not mentioned the loss of access to the mediterranean sea, which i regret.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the idea of the barcelona process is great, it's just that it's actually 2,000 years overdue. the aim is to transform a colonial and a post-colonial system into a partnership system with equal rights and obligations. historically, the structures of power have always been structured in such a way that there has been a north/south divide, and it is only fair that europe, whose countries - or specifically some european states from this system - have almost always been the beneficiaries, is now also responsible for and promotes rapprochement and equality. the aim of the barcelona process is unquestionable. the success of the negotiations will depend not only on the formal outcome but also on the extent to which we succeed in removing prejudices against the mediterranean countries and their inhabitants from our minds. it must be clear that the achievement of the barcelona objectives will be crucial to a peace strategy for the 21st century. it is equally important that no mediterranean country is excluded. not mentioned in the barcelona paper is libya, the country that is pretty much right in the middle of the mediterranean states. the process of rapprochement will not work if the eu does not try to invite libya to participate in this rapprochement.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr high commissioner, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. a colleague - he is no longer in the chamber - said today that the role is with the parties themselves. if it were only the parties to the conflict who were to be concerned, then i wonder where the peace is. where have they succeeded in making peace, or even in maintaining peace? no, i think that mediation is needed - and i give credit to all those who have said so - especially with strong european involvement. because hatred, coercion and the attempt to put pressure on the partner vis-à-vis the other have unfortunately again prevailed. i do not think that, as has been said here, we can expect that after the elections in israel, especially under sharon, things will be better with reference to menachem begin. because mr. sharon has done nothing lately to suggest that he's ready to make peace. on the contrary, his path to power is paved with various measures that prove just the opposite. i agree with commissioner patten. in all our attempts to engage in dialogue with both parties, and this is the only way to achieve a mediating role, we must say clearly and unequivocally: we cannot accept that our resources in the middle east cannot be used productively because israel in particular is putting such pressure on and cutting off palestine. i have seen this happen several times in this parliament: the more israel turns the tap on palestine, the more europe will turn the tap on, and israel will then, in a sense, be spared the financial contribution to the peace process which will then be borne exclusively by europe. this can't be happening! if we have to do this financial part, and i admit that we do, then it must also be clear that there is a strong political commitment! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the situation of american retreat or reticence is also a great opportunity for europe to play a proper political role in the middle east.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the debate in the plenary this evening shows the picture we saw in the hearing of the committee on development and cooperation last september. there is a broad consensus that plan colombia and this highly military component are a danger to the peace negotiations that have begun and that they will lead to an escalation of the conflict in colombia, an escalation of the conflict after more than three decades of civil war, after more than 300,000 deaths and after the hope of being able to enter into dialogue with the inauguration of president pastrana and to be able to solve the problems of the country, the conflict. it has been said many times today that the world drug problem must be tackled and tackled at its roots. i agree with him, of course, but the problem of the conflict in colombia must also be tackled at its roots, and europe cannot afford to make the same mistake as the united states, namely to believe that drug trafficking is the root of the growing violence and conflict, while at the same time turning a blind eye to the unjust social and difficult political system in colombia. mr commissioner, mr president of the council! last september, parliament called on the union to develop an independent strategy to combat drugs. a month later, in october, the council declared that the union would support the peace efforts and would also accompany the negotiations. what we've heard from you here today sounds very promising. i believe that the union must continue to work in this direction. the idea that we can solve the conflict in colombia by using military means to combat drug trafficking, but at the same time forget the social and political problems of that country, is a farce and a betrayal of the people who have waited too long for peace and stability in their country!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. yes, it was a difficult birth, but it was a successful birth in the end. as with every birth, there are midwives. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not left to the detriment of the environment. i would like to emphasize this and acknowledge it because it has done an excellent job! the french minister for transport, who may have tried to intimidate us a little at the beginning, but did not succeed, has finally reached a very good compromise with us. i would also like to thank vice-president imbeni, who has guided the parliament's delegation with great care and precision, and also our committee chairman, mr hatzidakis, who has also supported us with his advice and action and his confidence in the rapporteurs. i also mention that it was a difficult birth because it took a long time, longer than it should have. but since there are constant rumors that parliament is so slow and hesitant and that we need fast track procedures and other procedures, i would like to point out that we had the first reading on 10 march 1999 but did not receive the common position until 13 april, that is more than a year later, despite the fact that it was tabled in the committees by mr jarzembowski and myself. we then also worked quickly on the common position on 5 july and decided to amend it on 5 july. the council has again taken a relatively long time to reach its opinion. i want to make a point . parliament works quickly when necessary, thanks in particular to the good cooperation i have had with mr jarzembowski. it is the council which always has great difficulty in reaching a common position. what does this railway package include? i believe that these are very important steps, namely the steps themselves, which are fixed, but also the look into the future which goes with them. first, something i would call tailor-made liberalisation, i.e. liberalisation which does not simply go across the board, which does not go beyond what reasonable, discerning experts think, but which is targeted. i would also like to thank mr jarzembowski and a few others for their efforts. you could have been braver. but whatever the case, the first steps have been taken and they should be taken, because i too believe that what is in the text can be implemented even earlier than what we have agreed, which is the minimum for me. secondly, the cost structure. it is true that we have said on the one hand that in the short term - we have followed the example of the commission - only the marginal costs, i.e. the cost of an additional train on a given route, can be charged. but in the long run, the goal must be to achieve full cost recovery here. however, this means that this cost recovery can be achieved not only by rail but also by road. the environmental costs must therefore also be taken into account, which - although mr jarzembowski still does not quite believe this, but he is half convinced - are certainly clearly higher on the road than on the railway. thirdly, we have not abolished the exception for individual member states. it hurts, but it's a pain we can take. i think the train of time will pass over it, too. i have succeeded in introducing or reintroducing a certain principle, and i thank you for your support, namely that public services may be given priority to a limited extent and for good reason, without, of course, hindering the most important part of transport, namely economic transport, goods transport, which is the most important part, because we want to move it from the road to the railway. we have also achieved that the duration of framework contracts that railways receive for the use of infrastructure is designed in such a way that the investments made by railway companies are also really paid off and implemented. i think that this is a comprehensive package with good provisions. we can say that we will be happy to go home tomorrow after the votes. each one did his part. but it certainly is not. two things are very important: firstly, the commissioner has also helped us by making it quite clear that further steps will be proposed by the commission. as i said, i hope they're tailored and targeted, but that's important. the second point, which is also very important, is that, as i have already said, we must gradually move towards a system of internalising external costs, i.e. they must be taken into account in parallel for road and rail. then, too, part of the distortion that still exists, namely the unfair treatment of rail versus road, will be eliminated. there will be no major changes overnight. so the freighters have nothing to fear. but the railways will and must also experience justice step by step and thus indirectly a promotion which is really only the creation of a just relationship. the question of labour law and working hours is also important. here too, the treatment is unfair. here too, the commissioner has promised, and the council has already decided in principle, to help us to put an end to the unfair pricing of fares and rates in the member states of the european union - this is particularly frequently practised by the willi betz company - so that we can have a fairer system here, also in terms of labour law and working time, because here too the railways are at a disadvantage compared with the legal, but above all also the factual conditions on the road. of course there must be investment in the railways. it's not enough to say, okay, we have a great system now, but nobody's investing. these investments are necessary. i say this particularly because we are about to enlarge. if the enlargement is linked to the fact that we will have additional massive truck traffic on our roads, then there will be resistance to it. if enlargement is linked to a fairer and therefore more environmentally friendly transport system, then it will be more widely accepted. that is how i understand our railway package that we are proposing today - that we have a bit more environmentally friendly transport and therefore also a bit more justice in the transport system!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the language of the railroaders has given us many idioms. the train has left, let's say, when we're late. unfortunately, that's the case with our train. the package of three proposals for directives on railway infrastructure, which we shall be voting on tomorrow, is overdue. what was finally achieved in the conciliation committee after lengthy negotiations is actually ten years too late. the evidence for this is unfortunately provided by statistics. in recent years there has been a huge decline in rail freight transport and there is every indication that it will be very difficult to bring about a change of trend in the foreseeable future. if we remember that we achieved the common market for goods in 1970 and the internal market in 1992/93, we are now well behind schedule in 2001. our train also travels on a lafa, a slow-moving track. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by rail. if you see that the connection of the eastern goods traffic by rail has not even been really discussed, then we have already suffered another delay here. there are other, better signals, green lights, so to speak. the positive results are not to be overlooked. for example, the creation of independent regulators at least signals a free-for-all for more competition, and one can hope that necessary reforms will not be put on the back burner. the derogations for certain member states are now being extended to the truly peripheral countries of the union, and the project of better rail/freight transport is at least on track. interoperability is next on the agenda, and we are currently setting the course for more intermodality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not subject to the same restrictions as the railways. we must not give up hope and in this connection i would like to thank the two rapporteurs and the commissioner whose cooperation has already been mentioned and rightly praised.
mr president, at this late hour, congratulations are sometimes easier to receive, but if you hold the report in your hand, you could say them at any time of the day. i think mrs mann has done a very good job. i would like to focus on two points. the first is the question of transparency, the second is the problem of a pending commercial philosophy. for the sake of transparency, i would urge the commission in particular to support amendments nos 9 to 11. i think that is exactly the way we should go, not only to inform parliament, but also to make comprehensive documents available on the internet, in the context of the much-vaunted transparency of a european transparency initiative, so that they can be accessed at any time and that they in turn also contribute to the credibility of what we are all working for, namely the creation of a new europe. the explanatory statement attached to this report is very interesting, and this cannot be said of every report. this brings me to the second question of the basic direction of trade policy. it has not been easier to make it clear that trade, if properly organized, means increased prosperity for us, worldwide. after seattle and after davos, we're increasingly seeing that we're dealing with irrational opponents of globalization. it's all about the right rules. it depends on the fine tuning, it depends partly on information. if we could ask for this, we would wish that many of those who are only critical of globalisation would notice how strong europe has already become in the field of foreign direct investment, as we can read here, or in a wide variety of other areas. conviction is required. it would be desirable for the commission in particular to deal with these fundamental questions quickly now, so that we can present the corresponding fundamental programmes before 2005 and convince the citizens.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the measures proposed by the commission to date to deal with the bse crisis are usually too late, not very effective and also unilateral. the commission reacts rather than acts. it is not very energetic in its approach to tackling this issue. many questions remain unanswered. how can the price differences for bse tests in europe be explained? what action will be taken to combat any distortions of competition? why is there no effective help for the innocent victims? i am referring in particular to farmers in countries where there are still no cases of bse, or to meat processing establishments, slaughterhouses, all of whom are fighting for their lives or are afraid of their lives in the present situation. you're helping the wrong guy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in countries that cannot participate in the campaign, the cattle stay in the stables. the burden on the people concerned is unreasonable. 70% of the supplementary budget is to be used for this purpose alone. why is there no further promotion or additional pressure for bse testing on live animals? you must understand: if we lose our farmers, we lose our livelihoods, because the farmers are mainly in our regions, and here i mean the alpine regions, the landscape managers. with the peasants, we lose our livelihood!
mr president, i should like to explain why we greens were in favour of these amendments. it is the two recitals 11 and 13 which ultimately form the basis for another more important recital, and the sensitive paragraphs 7 and 12 which we have in any case supported. paragraph 7 refers to the desire to find a legal framework for the problems that will arise in this new market. that was the main reason for this own-initiative report. why question that? paragraph 12 asks, begs, invites to think about how to find a specific vat regime for downloading publications. the problem is there, and that would throw all existing policies into a state of confusion. this paragraph 12 is in no way in contradiction with paragraph 13, because paragraph 13 only asks that the existing vat rates that exist for books be reduced or abolished altogether, if necessary, in particular for some institutions, such as libraries, etc. , i.e. that publications on the new e-market be treated no differently. that is not a contradiction at all. on the contrary, it could be an important step forward for the future, for this new market and for the cultural heritage of the book. that is why the greens voted for it.
madam president, i am very surprised that a colleague here calls the question of euthanasia a question of the subsidiarity of national criminal justice systems. we are all very proud and happy that there is no death penalty in any member state of the european union, because the sanctity of human life is something that should unite us all. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by congratulating mr savary on his excellent work, which is so good that we can now conclude it and not even get to the exciting conciliation procedure i was looking forward to. but i am very pleased about this, and it has already been pointed out that with the railway package which we were able to adopt recently, and in which my colleague mr jarzembowski and i have also put a lot of work, we have come together in a round package to which the commissioner has also made a very substantial contribution. not just some lame compromise, but a really good package! secondly, the question is, can we sit back? is that the end of the railway business? mr savary has already pointed out that there are still some openings. the commissioner has already announced some areas of market opening in the transport of goods and passengers and has already started work on this, and i think this is very important in relation to the question of working conditions and working time. the big problem is the competition between rail and road. what we have done now and will decide tomorrow is to make the railways more competitive. i must also say to all those who always talk about competition that competition means or must mean that the starting opportunities, the conditions of competition, are somewhat equal, and that is certainly not the case with rail and road. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption is a very good one. i am not saying that we should give priority to rail. because it would mean a great deal if we gave rail the same competitive position as road. i have already mentioned the question of working time regulations. i am not talking about the extreme under-driving - even on the road - by certain pseudo-independent conditions in the case of lorry traffic, the so-called willi-betz situation and regulation, which has also been raised on several occasions, and the questions relating to tariffs, including, of course, external costs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the best and most modern railway system in the western part of this continent, which is geared to integration, is of no use unless we also achieve better rail links in eastern and south-eastern europe at the same time, and the european union must also make a major contribution to this.
mr president, mr prodi, president of the commission! we've heard a lot of programmatic things from you today. i would like to refer to your last words, where you also spoke about parliament, that is to say, about the role of parliamentarians. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i would challenge you to make a concrete statement, so to speak. the point is that we want a strong commission because we are convinced that the basis of a future europe cannot - and above all cannot - be the cooperation of governments. we therefore expect you to be concerned with strengthening parliamentarism and parliamentary democracy. in general, you will agree. but, mr president, if your vice-president barnier recently suggested in a debate in the committee responsible that a sort of forum should be proposed for the future of the post-nice process, involving all - parliamentarians, civil society - then i say no if that means introducing such a forum instead of the convention. mr president, we want to have a convention, a convention of parliamentarians from the european parliament and national parliamentarians. we want that, and we ask for your clear and unequivocal support! (applause from the centre) mr president, i know that there is also criticism from the commission - both direct and indirect - that this parliament has weaknesses. admittedly, there are weaknesses in this parliament. but the weaknesses of this parliament and of parliamentarism at european level must be transformed into strengthening this parliament and not into further weakening it. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the european parliament. the concept of good governance is a bit problematic. i would say democratic governance. the democratic decision-making process must be strengthened. i'll give you that. it also needs to be spread. democracy also includes dialogue with civil society. i'll give you that. we must do more, especially as members of parliament! but here again, the crucial question is: is the involvement of civil society a substitute for strengthening direct parliamentary democracy or not? is civil society in some way the guardian of parliamentary debate and decision-making processes or not? there must also be a clear and unequivocal statement in favour of parliament. (applause from the centre) i shall also come to self-regulation in this context, because that is also a new buzzword. self-regulation is also sometimes euphemistically described as a 'cooperative decision-making model'. i would like to ask you to do so. the council, the parliament and the parliamentary committees must decide. we must make this decisionmaking process transparent and public, and not, as is currently the case, not transparent and not public. this concerns above all the commission and lobby groups. we must enter into dialogue and debate with the interest groups, we must accept their advice and their considerations, yes! but we can't make the goat a gardener. the one we might want to control, he's supposed to set himself a framework in the future? i disagree. that would be the same as saying that the feed industry and the agricultural lobby should set the rules for the organisation of agricultural markets themselves. it can't be! this is not our position! the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. that is to say, what the council and parliament decide is then interpreted by the commission afterwards, if possible in the way that the various interest groups may wish. this is a dangerous road too! the commission makes proposals. she has the right of initiative. i'll confess to that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if so, the european court of justice is called upon to do so. in conclusion, mr prodi, we expect the commission to make a lot of proposals. we also expect respect for parliamentarism, as we respect the commission. we expect you to be as interested in our strengthening as we are in yours! (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr prodi, you are right. i agree with the calls for more concrete answers. the political unity of europe has not progressed in nice. on the contrary, what has triumphed there is the renationalization. what has failed, mr prodi, and i think it is very important to recognize this, is the council's arrogance of being the constituent of europe. that is the nature of parliaments! the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission's position is unclear and highly vague, particularly on the question of the post-nice process. you have found words of criticism for the treaty, but i hear that in my own country the commission is launching a huge advertising campaign celebrating the treaty of nice as a historic breakthrough and success. you have found words of criticism, but your commissioner barnier is suggesting a mere forum for debate instead of a constitutional process and a convention. mr president of the commission! i would ask you to give a very specific answer to a very clear question: are you on parliament's side in demanding a constitutional process, a model convention and the extension of the nice catalogue of issues to include the crucial democratic principles of separation of powers, checks and balances, publicity of legislation and so on?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are faced with many open questions after nice, to which we need concrete answers. these questions concern the division of powers between national and european powers, the simplification of the provisions of the treaties, the legal status of the charter of fundamental rights and the role of national parliaments in the architecture of the european union. what should the member states remain ultimately responsible for? this question is closely linked to the definition of the european union's objectives. we must be clear that only if the responsibilities are clearly defined can we expect the public to accept the legislative and political decisions at european level. it is therefore essential to involve national parliaments more closely in the process of discussion in the run-up to the forthcoming intergovernmental conference. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the draft treaty on european union.
mr president, mr president of the commission! we consider it very positive that you are also taking measures and initiatives to develop the union towards a security union, that you are also taking measures in the context of asylum and migration. i would also like to make a few points of principle. we expect you to assess the impact and to consider your own initiatives in such a way that they are not in conflict with previous initiatives. this care - and i can give you an example of this - is sometimes lacking, as in the case of the draft directive on family reunification, which is being discussed in the context of migration policy, and which the president has mentioned. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the fact that the social partners are not involved in the decisionmaking process. but if you then use the same title to extend the circle of those who should be granted the right to move to the union after one year far beyond that, then you have obviously not considered the consequences and are also in contradiction with your communications on a future migration policy. if you go and extend the circle to unmarried partners, to grandparents on both sides, to the partners of students, granting them the right to stay after one year, including them among the asylum seekers and also granting them all the right to work, then the migration system becomes unmanageable, uncontrollable. immigration may then only take place via your so-called family reunification. it is also taking away the right of the member states to decide which and how many workers they can bring into the union. you are contradicting yourself in what you believe to be positive. mr president of the commission, we want to continue to support you, but we can only do so if your initiatives are not contradictory and if they solve the problems and do not create new ones.
mr president, with the forthcoming accession of the countries of central and eastern europe to the union, an efficient rail network is playing an increasingly important role in ensuring the smooth operation of crossborder rail transport. it is therefore necessary to consolidate the national networks into a single european network. the main step towards a transeuropean rail network is to eliminate the differences in the specifications used by the different railway companies. another important step has been taken in the creation of transport links and the elimination of congestion in the less-favoured or remote regions. the development of infrastructure will also enable these regions to participate in and benefit from the single market.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank all the honourable members who have worked constructively with us, in particular the commission and the rapporteur, mr boselli. there are many problems, many conflicts of interest that remain unresolved. it is not easy to harmonize cultural traditions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals. balance between who: between authors and public interest. first of all - and this is my view and the green party's - the copyright law must strengthen the rights of the author. he needs to be served by copyright law. his position must be strengthened for future contract negotiations. my responsibility as a cultural politician is firstly to enable and safeguard this source of livelihood for authors, and secondly - and i do not want to understand this in order, but as an equivalent - to guarantee the public not only free access, but also to ensure that high-quality content in all its diversity is made available to the public. we are against the extension of the list of exceptions and perhaps we can find a solution between the parties to some of the points which are still in dispute, because we are also interested in finding a happy solution with which we can all live. i would like to point out that the greens have limited themselves to amendments which concern themselves exclusively with the authors. these are the two motions for resolutions nos 34 and 36. well, i'll allow myself to reply now. there are many, many arguments in the text of the recitals which are not in favour of the authors but of the other interested parties. and since napster has already been mentioned, europe should discuss whether or not it wants a micro-format, a european napster, and then there should be a round table discussion between providers, producers, authors and consumers. but i don't want napster to be simply smuggled into europe by a weakened copyright, by an imprecise wording. that is another possibility we should debate. we shall also be discussing collective management societies in the future, and i hope that this will happen soon, and we shall also be discussing the possibility of a copyright agreement.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the national traditions are simply too different and the interests of all the parties involved are too varied and contradictory. in view of this initial situation, however, a great deal has already been achieved if the directive can be improved further in the version of the common position or, even better, through amendments which we shall adopt tomorrow and which will also enter into force soon. we now have at least some key terms that will be uniformly defined. the full development of the information society will no longer be hampered by gross uncertainties about the legal framework, and the authors and their representatives will be given instruments to protect their interests. the technical protection possibilities are also developing very rapidly here. at the same time, however, we must ensure that the general public has access to it, particularly in the interests of cultural diversity. this includes ensuring that the consumer is not criminalised or asked to pay more than once. this includes making available the cultural heritage stored in television archives, for example, and enabling libraries to fulfil their valuable roles in the online world. i also see, as do other colleagues, that the result of the vote in the legal affairs committee has shifted the much-vaunted balance somewhat in favour of the exceptions, and i hope therefore that at least some of the amendments tabled by my group will still be adopted.
the commission has already done so. i was wondering if the country of origin is also a criterion for choosing a wife.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rapporteur has already said that the european parliament has helped to make emas ii, as it is called, more stringent and not to water it down too much, but that the conciliation committee has not been forced to its knees and has not abandoned the essential demands for this voluntary eco-audit system. the fact that it is a voluntary eco-audit system is precisely why we have to give it credibility, and we have been able to successfully assert this to the council. i believe that emas ii was a minimum requirement to ensure compliance with existing environmental legislation. it would have been a shame if it had been dropped at the third reading. we have also succeeded in achieving greater transparency, that is, better information for the public and interested parties. it was also very important to my group that the workers should be actively involved and represented in the organisation. this is a very important point, and i would like to make it clear that the council's representatives are more satisfied with the more complicated wording of the text than with the very clear demands of the european parliament. my group is right, however, and i would like to stress again on behalf of the socialist group that emas is important both for legal compliance and for the participation of workers and their representatives, and i look forward to the commission's evaluation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr lange, because we are again having a very important discussion here for the future. i think that two- and three-wheelers are the trend, they are modern, and that is why we should do everything we can to ensure that they are also up to date with regard to emissions standards. research has made great strides in this area, and it is now up to us to put these strides into practice. the emission inventory drawn up by the commission shows very well what progress is possible in terms of nox - up to 80% for the four-stroke and up to 70% for the two-stroke. these are values that can be seen! i therefore support the phased reduction which, if it is acceptable, will certainly bring great benefits to motorcyclists and other users of this equipment in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are now faced with the single-line bus directive, which we have already dealt with in the first reading. the rapporteur was mr murphy murphy's law is, i think, well known, but mr murphy has behaved in an exemplary manner because he too has recognised that we want to enforce important political principles with this directive, namely access for the elderly, children and disabled people. we are in complete agreement on this. we must do something for these groups: buses and public transport must be accessible to them, and we want to work together with all our strength to achieve this. why do we reject this directive? because the commission had now put forward a proposal at first reading of some 100 pages containing detailed rules, and all the groups agreed during the first reading debate to reject this directive on grounds of principle. now the commission and the council are coming back with a common position, not 100 pages, but 150! we said in the first reading that we could imagine three pages at most with the main political principles; now, there are some real goodies in this directive that you rarely find. for example, on page 17 we have figure 17: it concerns the permissible narrowing of the rear corner seats, the visibility of the prescribed area of the seat both rear corner seats, see annex i, section 7.7.8.6.3.4, and it prescribes a radius of not more than 150 millimetres in the vehicle structure. i know that in the european union we have already set the radius of curvature for bananas and cucumbers and what else, but that we are now being asked to set a radius of curvature for the single european bus is beyond my imagination! the directive also contains a formula which even engineers may find difficult to understand. i must say that this paper is not suitable for a political decision! the fact is that the designers, the bus buyers, the consumer protection organisations and also the disabled people's associations are all very unhappy with this directive, although they agree with it. everyone says that we want to achieve the goal of disabled-accessible buses in europe. we in the epp want a new approach in this area, which simply means limiting ourselves to the main political content. first, there are standards for access for the elderly, children and the disabled. this is very important and must be ensured. secondly, we want standards for the safety of the driver and his passengers. thirdly, we want the principle of mutual recognition. the principle of mutual recognition is so important because, of course, a bus in a poor little village in sicily, where it's very hot, has to look different from a bus in rush hour in london, where there are millions of passengers and the demands and dynamics of the bus are very different, or a bus in northern finland, which is used in extreme cold and for long distances and looks very different. the epp therefore will ask for the common position to be rejected and for a vote to be taken. we believe it is important that we do not want to make europe a level playing field. the european citizen is also opposed to this equalization. we want mutual recognition. i have confidence in british, french and german buses. and so it shall be in the future!
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. this morning president prodi told us that over a million new jobs were created in europe last year, two thirds of them for women. so we see that employment programmes and addressing this issue are having extremely positive effects. i believe that the method chosen by the commission is also the right one, namely best practice and benchmarking, so that we can become the world leader in europe with the knowledgebased society. the commission has also been very frugal with these funds. the payments, in contrast to the commitments, amounted to only 50%. so a great deal has been accomplished with relatively little. that is particularly commendable. it is not the case that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. there's certainly potential here. on the other hand, we should do our utmost to improve and extend this programme in the future. the commission has already made proposals in this respect from the committee responsible and the european parliament would be proud if the positive effects could continue in the future as they did last year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union, or more precisely the helsinki council, has officially recognised turkey as a candidate country for membership of the european union after long announcements and promises. the debate and the vote today are also about bringing turkey closer to this membership, or more precisely to the possibility of opening negotiations. if we - as i hope - adopt my report today and the council comes to a decision accordingly, the ball will be in turkey's court. turkey must then act. the time for reacting - as happens all too often in turkey - is over, because then turkey will have to take the necessary steps. because it must be clear, ladies and gentlemen - including those from turkey who may be following this debate today - that before the start of negotiations the political criterion of copenhagen must be met. we have not negotiated with any candidate until the political criteria have been met. in this sense, we are putting the same conditions on turkey as we have put on all the other candidates. turkey has neither a disadvantage nor a privilege. this is the purpose of my report and the purpose of those paragraphs - which seem to be now being called into question - which aim at placing turkey on an equal footing with all the other candidates. it is not enough to say that turkey is treated equally and that it has to assume equal obligations if it does not have equal rights. it is a very difficult path to follow in turkey and for turkey to meet the criteria. there are at least three main currents in turkey: those who are in favour of europe because they are also in favour of democracy, transparency and respect for human rights and minority rights; the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. but it is up to turkey to make the domestic decisions. i think that we, this parliament, should at least send a clear signal that we support those forces in turkey who want to take the road to europe and towards full democracy. that is the point of my report. we hope that turkey will make great progress in the next few years. there are illusions that negotiations could begin in a year or two. i don't want to discourage or disappoint anyone, but it's going to be a few years. but i think one thing must also be clear: if negotiations cannot really begin within a certain time - in my personal opinion, within five years - because the political criterion has not been met, then the european union and turkey must also consider another form of partnership. we are partners with turkey all the time and we must be good partners. firstly, i do not want to deny that turkey is an important economic factor. you can't deny that. secondly, it is in europe's best interest that there should be a stable, large country in this crisis-ridden region. thirdly, we have no interest in turkey being abandoned to islamic fundamentalism, because we are fundamentally opposed to all forms of religious or other fundamentalism. fourthly, there are regional problems to be solved: the improvement of relations with greece and in particular the cyprus question. i shall come back to this question in a moment: turkey must know that we demand from each candidate country an absolute commitment to good neighbourliness. it is part of the preparation for the negotiations with turkey that it should regulate its relations with greece in good faith and that it should make a substantial contribution to the solution of the cyprus problem. that's a tough one. all parties and all those concerned must do their part to solve the cyprus problem, including, of course, the representatives of the turkish people, and in particular turkey itself. i would like to conclude by making two brief comments. firstly, on the kurdish question: it is self-evident that the solution of the problems of the kurdish population in turkey is also on the agenda. we have made it very clear that the use of the kurdish language - including in the media - and the promotion and expression of kurdish identity are also an essential factor in changing the political situation in turkey. as regards the armenian question, i am personally against foreign parliaments deciding on the evaluation of history, of what happened a hundred years ago. but i am equally against the use of this as a means of raising nationalist capital in turkey. a more calm and, above all, more active role in the armenian question would be beneficial. if turkey were to take steps to invite historians from its own country, from armenia and from third countries to discuss this question, that would also be a step towards a sensible approach to this question. in this sense, ladies and gentlemen, i ask you to accept my proposal to give turkey the opportunity to prove that it wants to go the european way. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we welcome in principle any attempt to improve conditions in turkey and thus bring it closer to the european union. the only question is under what conditions and with what financial means. the problems of human rights in turkey, the kurdish question and the question of the recognition of the armenian genocide have been rightly discussed here again and again. i myself was invited to turkey a few months ago by a group of students to observe a trial, and it was certainly not a very encouraging experience! it is also interesting to note how the rapporteur, who has produced a very interesting report, has changed his opinion on turkey over the last few years. but that is not to be blamed on him, for everyone has the right to change his mind. financial support to turkey, to support those forces which want to further improve the rapprochement with europe and democratic conditions, must however be accompanied by a monitoring of the human rights situation and must not reduce the financial resources planned for other countries. we therefore find the idea of the tdi to set up a kind of council of wise men, which constantly monitors the human rights situation and makes the financing of certain projects dependent on improving this situation, interesting.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the helsinki council confirmed turkey's status as a candidate country, which should be measured against the same criteria as those applied to the other candidate countries, and it is only logical that turkey should also participate in a preaccession strategy and in an accession partnership. the swoboda report is a consequence of the helsinki decision and is therefore necessary. i would like to stress once again that the issue is not whether the accession partnership and the pre-accession strategy will be implemented, but how. the swoboda report goes far beyond the commission proposal in one respect, calling for turkey to benefit from the ispa and sapard financial instruments. this would have two consequences. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the community. it's hard to imagine either of those. i can follow the swoboda report on the other budgetary points. i too want turkey not to be discriminated against. however, sapard and ispa are instruments tailored to transformative societies which are evolving from a communist planned economy to an hopefully social market economy. this is not the case with turkey. the aim of the pre-accession strategy and the accession partnership must be to bring turkey's political, economic and social situation closer to that of the eu. it is essential that equal treatment be achieved for all candidate countries. but this does not require additional funds, such as from phare, ispa or sapard, but the same procedures as for the distribution of phare funds. i therefore reiterate my support for the rejection of amendment no 1 to the swoboda report. (applause from the centre)
madam president, you have worked miracles in the last few days. for example, you have ensured that air france brings members of this house on time. maybe you can work a miracle in the house. we have just tried to take the elevator down to the plenary; it was packed from the eighth floor up. no one could breathe . but he kept coming back on every floor. we made it, but maybe it would be possible to tell the elevator to go faster. (cheers and applause)
madam president, like mr cashman, i would like to make a similar announcement to the house. i think as writers, there are a lot of people in this room who are affected. but as regards amendment no 33, i am really confused. i do not want to vote on amendment no 33.
madam president, i would have liked to have followed the recommendation of my colleague mr corbett. but if everyone else is doing it, i'm obviously in it for the money. i will refrain.
- madam president, i would just like to point out that the german version is not correct here either. we shall stick to the english version, where the words 'his or her' have been inserted.
- madam president, i just wanted to say that this directive on the single european bus was rejected by all the political groups in parliament at first reading. it was 90 pages then, it's 150 now. the epp therefore tabled amendment no 9 and i am in favour of rejecting this proposal for a directive because we do not want the european bus for europe to be the same as the european cucumber. i ask the members to vote against it. (applause from the right)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i don't see any discriminatory content here. it was also adopted almost unanimously in committee, in the presence of baroness nicholson. so i don't see a problem here. this is the first time one of these has appeared.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i can tell you on behalf of my group that we have supported the position expressed by mr rübig before the vote because i simply find it if it were not also funny completely absurd. i do not think this house is called upon to be the standard-setting expert on technical matters. if you follow this report, for example, it says that parents with children in sports cars are people with reduced mobility. and then i ask myself, is the nanny or the uncle or the grandfather who might be looking after this child for a day also a person with limited mobility or no person at all? so, jokes aside, i think that the citizens of europe who are following this debate are right to ask themselves whether we do not have more important things to do in this house and we should leave things where they belong. subsidiarity should not just be a nice word, it should be enforced. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are now back to square one, and we have an important and correct report before us. i would like to make two points: firstly, if we are always discussing what makes europe so special and why we may, and hopefully will, be a model for the world in the future, we must be able to prove this with figures. how do we measure that success? we have very traditional instruments, the gross national product or the unemployment rate, which according to today's study by the munich ifo has fallen from 8.1 to 7.6. we have the euro's external value, but we have not taken into account many other indicators. i therefore expressly support paragraphs 24 to 29 of this report, which deal with new definitions of quality of life and employment. that would be very helpful to our debate. the amendments nos 13 and 17 have added what was also missing, namely the environment, which seems to be a particular concern of the swedish presidency, and where much can still be done. if mr friedrich in the debate said that there was a danger of knowing too much, i would say that we are dealing with the danger of knowing too little. this concerns parliament in particular and brings me to the second point, access to information in the post-lisbon debate. it is not worthy of the preparation of summit documents that they are only difficult to get through to parliament by stealth and often only after they have been published in the press. there is nothing in common, it's a contradiction. the council is doing itself a disservice by this isolation, especially when it comes to parliament's participation. in this way, it promotes the delegitimisation of political office holders. why do you no longer trust us here in parliament? i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the situation. let one of our committee chairmen, christa randzio-plath for example, have a chance, let parliament work together on an equal footing what are you afraid of?
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! this is not just a spanish question. for example, yesterday i received a call from a freighter whose truck had immigrants cutting themselves from above into the deck during the crossing. british customs then arrested these immigrants, and the freighter had to pay a fine, even though he didn't know that immigrants were on board. i therefore ask the following supplementary question: how does the presidency intend to deal with such a situation?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur very warmly for her work and for her precise explanations which have once again shown us what this directive is all about. let me make a supplementary point. this directive covers the whole aspect of creating a single internal market for financial services and is therefore welcome for that reason alone, because we still have a lot of work to do to strengthen, improve and extend the internal financial market and to remove the remaining bottlenecks. the common position has succeeded in reconciling the rights of insurance undertakings with the legitimate interests of creditors. the common position is balanced and is also the result of a compromise negotiated over a very long period. eleven years have passed since the council met. in view of the long-running procedure, a rapid approval would be an important step in the interests of both creditors and insurance companies. but let me say one last thing, so that there are no misunderstandings. insurance companies are more of an exceptional case throughout europe, as they are subject to very strict supervisory conditions and have very good management and good relations between clients and management. however, the lack of an eu legal framework poses a potential risk and could lead to major problems in individual cases. the idea and the need for a directive are therefore justified and the result is to be welcomed.
mr president, i would like to thank the members who are still present. we have an interesting thing ahead of us. i think that's where i can't think of a german word for a sharp mind worked. i believe that the weaknesses of an agreement have been worked out in an exemplary manner, and when one reads the explanatory memorandum, mrs lucas, one cannot help feeling that euro-imperialism may be on the way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the need to amend the constitution of mexico to comply with this agreement at all raises concerns. it reminds me of the shortcomings of this european union, because of the lack of democratic legitimacy even vis-à-vis its citizens. the second point which i think should not be forgotten is that mexico is not only an important trading partner for the european union, but in the mid-1990s it went through what the then president of the international monetary fund, michel camdessus, called the first financial crisis of the 21st century. i therefore find it particularly commendable that particular attention is paid to the problems facing countries such as mexico and, at present, especially argentina, because of their close links with the american dollar, and it is very regrettable that the commission is not following the mainstream, which is already saying: we must be careful! i would even go more in the direction of a bretton woods system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this is a very narrow sector. we are discussing the fight against trafficking, that is, aid to illegal border crossings. it is a very positive concern to want to do something about this, considering that half a million people enter the union illegally every year and half of them are trafficked, which means that organized crime is making a big and relatively risk-free business out of these people. the initiative is therefore welcome in and of itself, but unfortunately it is not in a global context. i am also pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of proposing a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to the use of dangerous substances in the transport of dangerous goods. if these proposals are adopted, individuals or groups will be given a priori immunity from prosecution if they bring illegals across borders for humanitarian reasons and without taking money. but what will be the consequence, how quickly do you think criminal organizations will take advantage of such a legal construct? it would not only be useless, it would be counterproductive. in addition, your proposal is turning our legal understanding and our legal system upside down. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is a distortion of our legal system and as such cannot lead to the desired result. mr ceyhun, as rapporteur, i would like to conclude by saying that you have undoubtedly - and i am convinced of this - acted with good intentions, but the instrument you are proposing is neither legally nor factually suitable to achieve the positive intentions. what we need is a comprehensive system, and i think we are working on it together, and i am also convinced that we will succeed together with the commission in the course of this year.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the coordination or pooling of european research activities must not lead to the elimination of competition between research institutions. coordination and linkage are good, but there should be no anti-competitive alignment. the limits of community action imposed by subsidiarity must therefore always be borne in mind. the commission's ambitious plans will depend on the foresight of national decision-makers. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the research carried out in the member states. the first priority must be to achieve the objectives as quickly as possible, to the benefit of the entire european economic area. we have probably one of the best training systems for scientists in the world, but unfortunately they very often leave for more attractive countries like the usa after their training. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, and the establishment of a european research area.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i thank commissioner busquin for presenting this opinion. i believe that commissioner busquin has the greatest responsibility in europe at the moment. the bse crisis is about regaining consumer confidence, and the only way we can regain consumer confidence is through objective research, through scientific evidence that the food we eat is also absolutely safe. i therefore believe that the bse area, that is biotechnology and genetic research, is an important focal point, and as a member of the committee on budgets i am even in favour of providing special funding for research in the bse area immediately, because i believe that in research we can make the only really important contribution to solving this problem and getting to the point. secondly, i am very concerned about small and mediumsized enterprises, and i can only support the rapporteur in saying that we should go from 10 to 15%, that funds should be allocated to enterprises with less than 250 employees, but that perhaps a second threshold should also be set for cooperation between large and small enterprises, research institutes and university institutes. we should insist that the knowledge of the large companies, the research results of the scientific foundations and institutions, should be transferred to the universities and from the universities back to the companies, so that then, with incubators, new employment opportunities can be created, new companies can be set up. we know that the small and medium-sized enterprises that are innovative, that produce products that are market-ready, are in great demand in the market. but we should also intensify the outsourcing of management to the national level, because of course it is also a matter of dividing up large projects and making them accessible to small ones.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the delegation of members who visited yugoslavia a few days ago saw a yugoslavia, a serbia, which is in the process of being transformed. the future of this country is being fought over, and there is much talk of decentralization, especially in serbia, and of a new relationship with minorities. there is also a lot of talk about strengthening the local level and, especially in southern serbia, giving the albanian minority a fair - because it has been unfair - representation in the local authorities. any violent action, whether in southern serbia or in mitrovica, is disrupting the difficult peace process currently taking place in the balkans. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. this is what we have always called for as members of parliament and will continue to call for, and there is no compromise. all that matters is that the steps are realistic. the elections in kosovo are certainly part of that, but only after the question of the powers and authority of the elected representatives has been clarified. the problems that exist cannot be solved overnight. they can only be resolved by consensus among all the parties involved, states and ethnic groups. it is a difficult process and i, like mrs pack, may not be able to give you the details, but in principle i am of the opinion that europe must take the initiative here, because none of the partners in the balkans is trusted enough to take the initiative and make peace. the european union is the only one that has this confidence at the moment. neither the united states of america nor russia nor any of the local states and societies have this authority. and if europe were to fall asleep, that would be very problematic! i can agree with another speaker, mr posselt. we are already paying enough in the world and in many regions without having a stabilizing influence. it must be different in the balkans. we want to pay, but we also want to have a say in bringing stability and peace to this region. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i congratulate you on the many proposals you have made, which i think are on the right track. i would like to address two problems. the first relates to the first question. the commission has already recently become reluctant to take decisions in the face of what is coming. i wanted to ask you: what can you do to increase employee decision-making? the commission has not only agreed to this, but has it also made it clear that it will take political responsibility for the reforms it proposes in its field? secondly, you propose to outsource a number of areas, i.e. to outsource. do you not see a certain contradiction between outsourcing on the one hand and your legitimate desire for a uniform, independent staff structure in the commission on the other? what will you do, commissioner, to prevent the outsourcing of the civil service from leading to a fragmentation of the single european service?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the honest farmers who were not involved in the bse crisis are now paying the price for the misguided agricultural policy of the commission and the union. the proposal for a vote favours only those structures which have promoted the breeding and production of livestock on a mass scale and are therefore also responsible for the crisis. 70% of the supplementary budget is used for the incineration operation. this is a way of helping those large farming structures which are actually to blame. the honest and innocent european farmers will no longer believe us if we vote in favour of this supplementary budget. it is the wrong signal if we now turn the problems of the accomplices under the table with the incineration action. i therefore support the rapporteur's call for a fundamental change in the european system of agricultural subsidies, to be geared to the benefit of small farmers. but unlike mrs haug, i am not prepared to vote for this supplementary budget.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i have recently read a very interesting and excellent dissertation by dr leitl on abuse supervision, and it concludes that what is really important is a functioning market that is monitored and that there must also be fair remuneration for performance. the roaming charges, for example, are a very opaque market. it would be good if the consumer could know in real time what his call is costing him, or if he at least has the right to receive a text message afterwards within a very short time, which tells him what the call cost. this transparency also leads to benchmarking, i.e. comparing who is doing best in europe and how we are doing in the world. we want to work out the best practice method together with the commission. where do we have models in europe and in the world that work best that we can use in our own countries? we want to use slim first and foremost, and this is very important. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a very important point in the paasilinna report is amendment no 47, because we have seen that the auction was fair on the one hand, but on the other hand it took a lot of money out of this important area. we therefore deliberately do not want to see the auction proceeds as a cold taxation, but we as politicians believe that this was an investment, a property that is no longer public property but a virtual property for the companies. i also believe that after the licenses expire, these rights will very likely remain with the companies that can then sell, lease or trade them in the future. that will improve the ratings of the companies, that will improve the capital market and therefore the stock prices. we have investments in this area and we have the strength for the future.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on these interesting and important reports and to assure them of our support, particularly for the call for greater direct involvement of the european parliament in the negotiations. the european union has repeatedly stated that relations with latin america will be one of its foreign policy priorities. improving cooperation between the eu and latin american countries is an economic but also a global political necessity for the eu. the recommendations mentioned here therefore rightly include not only the conditions for improving economic cooperation but also attempt to define the problem as a global project for the eu. the recommendations listed in paragraph 2 are therefore as important as the promotion of trade as the promotion of the development and consolidation of democracy and the rule of law, respect for human rights and the reduction of disparities between social sectors and regions. the area of the so-called political dialogue should perhaps be defined more precisely, otherwise it will lead to the fact that large sections of the population in south america will be excluded from this dialogue by the still very strongly hierarchical structure of society. in summary, the eu has a great opportunity in south america. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - (de) i support the telecommunications package because it has many strengths. the growing demand for frequencies, whether from telecommunications, radio, traffic, the police, the armed forces or the scientific world, simply makes a coordinated approach in europe essential in the context of international competition. in general, harmonisation at european level contributes to the creation of a continental market which can be measured to a large extent against that of american competitors. i would also like to stress the increase in administrative simplification - 8 legal instruments are being created from 20 existing legal instruments - which is a very positive development! competition rules will be the most important instrument for regulating the electronic communications market. as long as there can be no genuine competition on the market, there is a need for clear criteria for legal intervention, as well as for precise criteria and conditions for defining the obligations for guaranteeing access to and interconnection of electronic communications networks. i therefore particularly welcome the report by mr brunetta, which proposes appropriate obligations for operators and insists that ex ante regulation be abolished as soon as the objectives set have been achieved through market mechanisms. such interventions will be necessary as long as the former monopoly holders, who still provide most of the connections, still exist. limited resources controlled by one or a few operators, such as the local connection network in telecommunications, are another current obstacle to competition.
i have to say, madam president, with all due respect for the conference of presidents - in which i am also present here and there, as you have quite rightly reported - there should be an opportunity for spontaneous expressions by the members of this house, especially when new developments have emerged. i therefore think that we could vote today, as you have said, in a free vote on whether we should put a report on the agenda, contrary to the original decision of the conference. there is one problem, though. the council is also called upon to have a say in this matter, and i would therefore ask that, if possible, it be dealt with in the presence of a council representative, because then we will hopefully also receive the information which is crucial to our decision-making process. i would like to support my colleague in this regard.
i have to say, madam president, i have a great deal of sympathy with the arguments put forward by both speakers. in fact, it was actually quite shocking to hear what the commissioner had to say in the echelon committee. if only a quarter of what he said is true, then that is extremely problematic. i do not think that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i would also ask that the echelon committee be given, if necessary, a wider mandate to examine in detail these matters which have been put before it - even if they have been withdrawn in part - and then to bring the results of that examination to the house. we as a group would think that is a better way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, you have given an answer to mr schulz. i am grateful to you for giving me the answer. we have to accept it. we disagree with the answer. mr medina ortega has now expressed this view. we're gonna stay on this. we're gonna really dig into why it took so long. it is not just the steps that are incomprehensible, it is the period of time that is completely incomprehensible. but i do not want to discuss this further with you in this debate, madam president, but i would just like to say something to mr poettering. i am very surprised by his statement. (interruption of the debate) i know! very surprised, because i appreciate him, appreciate him as a fair partner. but here i am very surprised. first of all, it is quite clear that mr schulz spoke for the group of the european people's party. mr schulz spoke for the group of the party of european socialists and asked questions, and he did so in a very polite and very moderate way. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the budget is properly spent. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i would like to thank mr schulz for his report. secondly, mr poettering, the following: i didn't check in the last time i was in brussels. you said something in brussels that is very dangerous. you said that this group had acted against austria. you know who argues that way? there is only one who argues this way, and that is jörg haider, who always says: "anyone who criticizes the austrian government is acting against the country". (applause from the left) i am absolutely opposed, not only as an austrian but also as the current spokesman for the group of the party, to anyone who criticises a government taking action against the country. our group has never acted against the country, never against austria. (applause from the left) thirdly, mr poettering, and this is something i am very surprised about, if you had a clear conscience you would really have to do all you could to ensure that a decision is reached before the elections in italy and that this decision is not delayed in this parliament. it was never a matter for our group or the italian colleagues who spoke against it. mrs napoletano did not say that we were against discussing this. she was just against the argument being made in the way it was made, which was partisan. our italian friends have no interest in politicizing this, but we simply cannot accept that such a long period is chosen. if you, mr poettering, are particularly interested in a decision being taken, then you must be interested in it being taken now in this parliament, without prejudice to the italian elections, because otherwise there is a suspicion that you know that it could be dangerous for berlusconi and that you would like to postpone this until after the elections if possible. the only way to dispel this suspicion, mr poettering, is to be in favour of a rapid decision in this parliament! (applause from the left)
i have to say, madam president, i would just like to say very briefly to mr swoboda that it is sometimes difficult for him to distinguish whether he is speaking as the sp group's executive director, as a viennese politician or as a former viennese politician. it sometimes seems that his remarks are aimed more at the fact that municipal elections will be held in vienna on 25 march.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. world trade is becoming more and more important. the new communication technologies make it possible to conclude contracts or enter into legal transactions worldwide in a very short time with the click of a computer. it is therefore important that in the future we in europe give much more importance to the wto negotiations and also deal with them in greater detail. i believe that the european parliament has done a great deal of preparatory work on this and that we must also think in particular about the structure of our economy. we have about 16 million small and mediumsized enterprises in europe today, with less than 250 employees, which generate at least 60% of the gross national product and provide 60% of jobs. the wto negotiations are therefore of particular importance for small and mediumsized enterprises. in particular, the claims and enforcement of intellectual property rights should also be given priority. the point here is that we also have to deal with how we define, for example, the invention rate in patents. there are countries which require very low levels of inventiveness and therefore grant a lot of patents very quickly, there are other countries in europe which are very strict and first of all check worldwide whether the level of inventiveness exists or not, and that is why i think it is necessary to have this discussion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the patent is not used in the same way as the patent itself. i also believe that the precautionary principle is important for our future. it is also important that product safety is a priority for smes and that third party certification provides de facto exclusions of liability.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report. i am, like him, a passionate supporter of the wto because i believe it gives poor countries a chance to connect with rich countries. i am also very grateful to mr schwaiger, as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, for his view that consumer protection, animal welfare and health are very important issues and that we will deal with them as a matter of priority at a later stage. if we do not, we risk repeating the seattle situation. but let me address two points in advance of such a debate. i find it intolerable that the wto should consider or adopt criminal sanctions against the european union simply because the european union is trying to protect its citizens from hormone-contaminated meat. we now have scientific proof that one hormone is carcinogenic, five others are probably. the precautionary principle must of course also apply to the wto. the second issue is that in the european union several countries - the united kingdom, austria - have banned animal testing for cosmetics. the majority of citizens and consumers in the european union want this for the european union. i think the wto will have to accept that you can be very successful in business and still be sensitive to the suffering and pain of creatures that god has created - animals - and that you have to have respect for those animals.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commissioner, mr president, has always had the advantage and the disadvantage of being the last speaker to speak briefly in a debate. i would like to make a brief point, which you might be able to answer immediately. what about the collective bargaining agreement? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. is there a review planned and in what form can and will it take place? that would be the first question. the second one actually anticipates all of the things that we've been talking about here. i am very concerned about the way in which the negotiating process can now be accepted in the context of the general political situation. what is the commission planning? what is possible on the part of the european union? you have to worry about something. the wto is what it is. but what it still lacks most of all to get acceptance is transparency in practically all areas. the report's demands in paragraphs 34 to 40 point in the right direction. the only thing that is still lacking is the will to implement it. as a result of the lack of transparency, one can read very dramatic articles, driven by interests, for example, again this weekend in the financial times, which bring the wto to the dock from the public's point of view. the place where the wto will be held, or the ministerial conference, for that matter, is certainly not the most attractive place either. what does the commission think it can do to bring about change in the context of a general information campaign? are there any more concrete initiatives on your part to involve developing countries in the decision-making process, for example by covering legal costs and similar matters which could be settled bilaterally?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in the last few months we have been dealing very closely with the sugar market and have had many intense and controversial discussions not only with the commission but also with all those who are in favour of total liberalisation of the sugar market. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur very warmly, because i think he has succeeded in achieving a very good result in his report. there is a constant discussion about sugar being too expensive and having to be made cheaper for the consumer. i would just like to refer to the bse crisis. it shows us that even though farmers are losing up to 30% of their prices, the consumer is still paying the same price for the meat in the stores. i therefore fully support the extension of the sugar market regime until the 2005/06 marketing year. it is, in my view, the key element in this proposal. this period coincides with that of the berlin decisions, which set the cap at six years. we farmers need a policy we can rely on. the sector's stakeholders, beet growers and sugar manufacturers alike, need to have sufficient foresight to make appropriate investment decisions. in this context, i would like to point out the forthcoming accession of new countries and i think it would not have been very wise to create a new cmo for only two years, as originally proposed, because that would only cause confusion and lead to waiting. as regards the regulation on storage costs, i can only fully support the rapporteur's approach if he is in favour of retaining it. this is an important instrument for keeping the market stable, and it has worked for 30 years. it would be very shortsighted to throw off the balance of a market system that is functioning perfectly just for the sake of reform.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am growing impatient, not only as a member of parliament but also as rapporteur for the information campaign and as a member of the interinstitutional committee. my impatience sometimes gives way to disappointment. the major european projects, the introduction of euro coins and banknotes, the unification of europe, the debate on fundamental rights and constitutional law, the debate on who is responsible for what, the post-nizza ratification process and the post-nizza procedure - i say consciously, major european political projects - require, like the europe of the citizens, an information and communication offensive. the commission and the european parliament must be able to provide joint guidance on the content of the programme, in a professional manner, despite the call for subsidiarity and decentralisation. the unsatisfactory status quo is a reason for questioning, criticising and disappointing the dilettantism of information policy and the announcement and compliance tactics. i wonder what has happened since april 14, 2000? where's the master plan you promised me back then? where is the concrete timetable and action plan? where is the clear division of powers in the commission? on 14 april commissioner reding spoke here. a few days ago, commissioner barnier postponed the question of whether he would take responsibility. you've been a good substitute for us today. where is the evidence that you are serious about the joint approach between the european parliament and the commission? there is a lack of a clear concept. we do not need to renationalize information policy. the commission is not just a transit point for eu funds ... (the president withdraws the floor.)
mr president, i think that is a good proposal. we discussed this yesterday. we were quite unanimous in our view that we should change the original decision of the conference of presidents for reasons of timeliness. when you do something for the sake of the present, something else has to suffer. i can see that. we do not like to do without question time, but if that is the only way, i would like to give my full support to that on behalf of my group.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his problem-oriented report and thanking him for it. austria has always played a major role in the reception of refugees and displaced persons and has also contributed disproportionately to the resolution of the resulting problems. i would like to thank mr nassauer very much for his support of the rapporteur on this point. the problem must be solved satisfactorily at european level and not just by demanding the solidarity of all the member states. the commission proposal speaks only of community solidarity in the context of the reception of persons by the member states. however, that concept needs to be clarified in the sense of article 63 (2) (b) of the treaty. it is also necessary to include in the objective of article 1 that displaced persons must be distributed among the member states with due regard to their capacity to be received. the solidarity mechanism between member states must in any case include both aspects, namely financial and personnel solidarity.
in writing. -(de) as regards the harmonisation of fines and penalties for transport companies which transport third-country nationals without the necessary entry documents to the territory of the union, i would like to state on behalf of the delegation of the freedom party of the european parliament that we are certainly in favour of effective measures against illegal entry, but that these must take account of national sanction systems. we therefore also voted against the minimum sanctions provided for, without, however, calling into question the fundamental objective of an effective fight against illegal immigration.
i have to say, madam president, i also thank the commissioner for her commitment to these negotiations. i have two quick questions: what is the timeframe for the development of the system for calculating the training allowance and the development of the code of honour? because i think it's very important to have a fixed schedule and a fixed time frame here, too. next is the transfer height, which is still unlimited. the question therefore arises as to how the solidarity mechanism should work so that it really reaches the smallest clubs. you said 5% of the proceeds would be distributed. the crucial question is how this sum is distributed and does it really reach the bottom of the clubs?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. 1999 was a year of great leaps forward in the fight against fraud. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european anti-fraud office (olaf) was adopted in december. parliament, the council and the commission had to demonstrate, and were able to demonstrate, that the union is capable of acting in the fight against fraud, corruption and mismanagement. the full implementation of the decision taken more than two years ago is proving to be much more difficult than expected. the first annual report of the olaf monitoring committee therefore rightly sounded the alarm. the new director, mr brüner, has been in office for more than a year, but he has not yet been able to put together a new management team for the office, not least because the commission has involved him in an administrative pitch-and-roll about the procedures for recruiting new management staff. the question of the independence of the office and the director is of course raised. the commission's position on this point is contradictory. the commission is keen to monitor closely and to have a say in every step of recruiting new management staff. but when it comes to recruiting staff who do not meet the new requirements of the office, the commission acts as if it had nothing to do with it. it was the commission that simply transferred all the staff of the former uclaf task force to olaf en bloc, creating much of the problems with which the director of olaf now has to contend. mrs schreyer, this transfer was made despite the explicit warnings from this house. parliament has therefore put the brakes on the situation and put the additional posts for the current year into reserve. it is now up to the commission and its responsibility to remove the barriers described. it is only on this basis that the abolition of the present reserve makes sense. mrs schreyer, you yourself and the commission as a whole have come to the conclusion that the fight against fraud is a half-assed affair without a european prosecutor. the detection and prosecution of fraud and other offences against the interests of the union must also follow. we are in for a hell of a ride if in a year or two it turns out that an anti-fraud office which will hopefully be very effective by then is exposing far more fraud and irregularities than it has done so far, but fails to punish those responsible. it is significant that the commission's annual report contains a lot of statistics, but no information on the number of people who have been convicted of fraud. i am sure that if these statistics were to be produced, they would look very sad at the moment. but such a punishment cannot be carried out without a prosecutor representing the interests of the european taxpayers. this applies first of all to the institutions of the union themselves. they are only credible if it is clearly demonstrated that the much-vaunted zero-tolerance policy is not an empty promise but is being put into practice. you need a prosecutor to do that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a proposal already made by the five independent experts in their second report on the reform of the commission in september 1999. the olaf monitoring committee has also expressed itself quite clearly and unambiguously on several occasions since then in favour of such a let us call it internal prosecutor. just so there 's no misunderstanding , such a prosecutor could not, in the present legal situation, act as a prosecutor in national courts but would have a supporting and advisory role to the competent national prosecutor's offices. the commission also has a role to play in the fight against fraud, and the commission has a role to play in the fight against fraud. the director of olaf is currently obliged to consult the secretaries-general of the institutions when olaf wants to carry out internal investigations, and he is therefore liable to be accused of not being able to investigate in a truly independent manner. with an internal-processing prosecutor, this problem would be largely solved. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend the list of persons who are to be prosecuted under this regulation. this would require amendment of the treaties. this has failed in the past in nice, because of the resistance of several member states. the commission cannot and must not sit back now. it is now up to the commission to show that it is serious about fighting fraud and to test the limits of what is possible with imagination and political courage on the basis of the current article 280. one thing must be clear: discussion papers, green and white papers are not enough, they already exist in abundance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in other words, the commission must exercise its right of initiative. what we need now is a big jump.
mr president, the increase in fraud within the union and the behaviour of the commission are scandalous. the financial damage with butter alone is estimated at more than eur 45 million. and then there's the fact that we're dealing with repeat offenders. on the commission's recommendation, a penalty bond of eur 17.6 million was issued for a company which is now again suspected. the work and the rapid establishment of the european anti-fraud office is therefore urgently needed and should be fully supported. it is also important that the work of this new body be supported by the authorities in the member states. but when you study the reports in detail, you are not always sure. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the member states do not use the funds they have received from the olaf.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are discussing the transitional periods and the problems, commissioner, all the time. can you imagine that we are already thinking in advance of, in principle, negative transitional periods, that we are now starting with bilateral agreements between countries to solve the problems in advance and to develop an incentive system for this, that we are therefore thinking in the core areas, which we already know today and which are constantly mentioned, of an incentive system, as we already do in advance, that is, before accession, to be able to lead these problems to a solution?
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur. i think that the parliament's delegation in the conciliation committee fought very hard and also with a heavy heart agreed to the result in the conciliation, as did my group, as it will agree in the plenary. however, we cannot be satisfied with the outcome of the mediation. the european parliament wanted a binding directive rather than nice recommendations. the member states have blocked and they also have the responsibility to ensure that the union does not move forward with regard to the implementation of environmental policy. more than 150 cases are currently pending for violations or non-compliance with environmental legislation. as much as this parliament welcomes any progress in environmental policy, there are grounds for doubting the seriousness of the union's environmental policy if the important step of implementation, of monitoring implementation, is omitted. the best legislation is useless if it is not implemented. our conditions, the coordination of inspections between member states when it comes to crossborder environmental crime, are an improvement, also the publication of inspection reports two months after the inspections have been carried out. however, i believe that the revision clause described by mrs jackson is the most important request of parliament, namely that the commission should submit to parliament after two years a report on the application and effectiveness of this recommendation and, in the event of non-effectiveness - which i now accept - also a proposal for a directive. i do not entirely trust the very soft wording of this revision clause - the commission should submit such a report not in two years' time but as soon as possible - so i would ask commissioner wallström to confirm perhaps once again that she will be committed to having this report before us in a little over two years' time. i hope, of course, that the effectiveness of this recommendation will be demonstrated, that environmental legislation will be more effective, that improvement will be seen. but at this point, i lack faith, even though i hear the message.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. mr president, we should also take into account the fact that the planned 18% saving would also be a huge economic boost. an 18 percent energy saving would mean 1,900 terawatt hours less energy consumed. this is a saving of 124 billion euros which could be used for regional value-adding within the european union. if we add up the figures, we could create about one million jobs in the european union if this programme were implemented consistently. the second issue is the conservation of resources. we have to be aware that 90 percent of the oil that is being produced today was discovered more than 20 years ago, that is, it comes from sources that are older than 20 years. only 10% of the oil that's been produced today has been found in the last 20 years. i would like to mention once again that the acquisition of oil is inseparably linked to military force. we see this in the middle east, we see this in the caucasus, we see this in africa. the most important thing in this area is awareness-raising, the development of intelligent models of combined heat and power, contracting models with intelligent financing. if we are serious about this, it is crucial that we make the objectives we have set here binding. otherwise, our work is more statistical than efficient. we must remove the fiscal, bureaucratic and financial obstacles.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. when we talk about energy efficiency today, we naturally think first of security of energy supply, and security of supply is certainly one of the topics in the european union. we therefore want to reduce energy intensity. the policy objective is currently -2,5%. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we therefore also advocate that this should be a binding objective and that it should be started in the country where the efficiency is greatest and where the improvement can be most taken into account. we also believe that the market share of combined heat and power could be increased to 18% by 2010 and to 25% by 2015, because this would also put electricity generation on a secure footing. the combination of power and heat can be used with fossil energy just as with renewable energy. we are particularly focusing on renewable energy, and here we have positive examples such as pellet heating, where this combination of power and heat can also be operated very efficiently. it is also important that the european commission coordinates more closely in this area. the coordination of european initiatives is very demanding when one thinks of programmes such as save, altener, the fifth framework programme for research and energy. there are many programmes available, but the key is to target them precisely. the last point i want to make is about public procurement and central purchasing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by welcoming the very ambitious programme of the swedish presidency. much has been said and written about the post-nice treaty. i was pleased earlier to hear many of my thoughts expressed here today. but i would like to highlight another aspect of this today. the first debate on the méndez de vigo/seguro working paper in the committee on constitutional affairs called for the historical introduction to the first part of the report to be seen not from the point of view of the council's victories and the commission's victories, but from the point of view of parliament's defeats. i can understand that, under the impression of nice and the power games demonstrated there, some of the words are close to those of a fighter or a warrior. i think that there can be no victory or defeat for one institution over another, but only progress or retrogression for the whole, namely the idea of europe. you should keep that in mind. i am therefore in favour of us parliamentarians not using such words, avoiding them and thus sending a signal for cooperation between all the institutions.
- mr president, i have to go. madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the historic task of the union will be difficult to solve, but it is very simple to name it. the most urgent task is the establishment of a european democracy. that is the heart of our dispute and our conflict. the greatest obstacle to european democracy - it must be said - is the council's claim to power, the claim to power of the national governments, which want to be not only governments in this europe, not only legislators, but also constitutional creators of europe. the council of nice has failed in its role as the constituent body of europe. this was the arrogance of power which jeopardizes the acceptance of european unity by the citizens. the commission's position is the most important open question in this debate on european democracy. madam president, you spoke of transparency, of citizens' proximity, of dialogue, of parliaments as the source of ideas, of large public debates, and you said that you thought you were talking about democracy. you didn't say anything about democracy! democracy in europe requires that we talk about the fundamental principles and elements of democracy, about the separation of powers, about the intolerability of national administrations making laws. democracy demands that we talk about the principle of the publicity of legislation, that it is intolerable that the council decides on laws behind closed doors and the citizens no longer have the right to know who has decided what and why, and no longer can hold those who make the decisions to account. democracy requires that we talk about the catalogue of fundamental rights, about legal binding and about citizens' access to the court, that we talk about a system of checks and balances and that the right to give constitutions is never and nowhere and in no democracy the right of governments, but that it is the original, indispensable task of parliaments. until the council renounces its claim to power and puts these elements of democracy at the centre of the debate, we shall not be able to solve this great historical problem! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank you, madam president, above all for the optimism in your speech, which is an interesting development after the last presidency. otherwise, i would like to use the short time available to make a proposal. the proposal, discussed by various political groups, to set up a second chamber of the european parliament with the aim of representing national parliaments might be superfluous if the austrian approach were followed. our federal constitution provides for the austrian representative in the council to be directly responsible to the national parliament, and the main committee of the austrian national council can influence the positions of the representative in the council. this ensures that the representatives of the austrian people control and shape the political negotiations in the council without the need to create a separate second chamber. this approach of involving the national parliaments as early as possible therefore eliminates the need for a second parliamentary level and would be a simpler solution, perhaps also cheaper and less bureaucratic.
mr president, madam president of the council! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. 'it's about the future' you have outlined the objectives of the swedish presidency's work in perspective. unfortunately, it has remained with the perspective, with the reference to the objectives of annex 4 to the nice treaty, with the call for greater proximity to the citizens and with the more than cryptic reference to the fact that you see both positives and negatives in the convention method. that is not much, if i may be so bold, and it is actually too little, considering that the swedish presidency is almost half-way through. i would have welcomed it if you had at least put forward the critical central questions raised by michel barnier. do we want more or less political europe? how do we really envisage a fundamental reform of the institutions? how should the process of framing a future european constitution be organised? and i would have listened to you with enthusiasm if you had at least answered some of the questions in sentences. maybe that'll be in your closing remarks. i would like to ask the commissioner what he thinks of the commission's proposal. what does it mean to be closer to the citizens in an institutional sense, i.e. beyond the internet and discussions in the european school? does this mean that the european parliament will be removed from power by a second chamber of the national parliaments, over which the council believes it has more influence than over the european parliament? i'm asking for answers. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply. you have a reputation for extraordinary skill, as your presentation showed. you have flattered us here, you have spoken of important contributions of the european parliament in the past, you have called relevant debates very interesting and exciting. thank you for the compliment. but how do they correspond to the deeds - you were also in nice? what does the future look like on paper? the loser in nice was the european parliament. instead of more transparency, we have less democracy. we are now in a europe that is the equivalent of the late 19th century habsburg monarchy. many voted for big landowners then, today for states, and all this is unfathomable. now you're talking about being open-minded in future proceedings. since i have been here as an elected representative of the people and before that as a journalist, i have always wondered what is really going on in the minds of those in power when they speak as you do and when they act as you do in the council. what do you really want? what are you standing for today? i was taught in school that parliament is to control and the government is to govern. where do you rule? the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. but what does the council stand for today? why not simply say that they want a genuinely democratic and transparent europe with all the consequences? is it so hard for you to take responsibility for your constituents? what's going on in sweden? we admire your country - i am a fan of your political transparency, and now i lack the courage to address these key questions for the future. if you do not lead and only seduce, and then also the wrong bride, namely the national, backward-looking and not the radiant future-oriented bride europe, you risk going down in history as the gravedigger of europe, because you could not explain to your citizens and wanted to explain that the european union plays an indispensable role in the age of globalisation and that this european union must be fundamentally democratized and subject to the principle of subsidiarity. i wish sweden had some courage. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote. i trust your ambition. (applause from the centre)
in writing. - (de) we are in favour of a national environmental tax to achieve the objective without any additional burden on citizens and businesses. this does not mean the introduction of a european tax, but the demand for harmonization of national tax rates in this sector. international competitiveness can be strengthened in a sustainable way. the security of energy supply is one of the foundations of the economy.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! the violation of human rights and discrimination against minorities are today the main causes of conflicts and wars within and between states. some therefore see the uncompromising enforcement of the right to self-determination as the only remedy against the disadvantage and oppression of minorities. but they often overlook the fact that they are only creating new minorities, who are then subjected to the same mechanisms of discrimination or to the attempts to become independent again in order to free themselves from this yoke. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. in particular, of course, all the attacks and terrorist activities are not intended to bring about a new order, but to create a new disorder. the point is therefore that we should support in particular all those countries - and macedonia is the first to be mentioned - which are doing everything possible to integrate minorities into society, and this also applies to yugoslavia and serbia today. i therefore believe that crisis prevention and preventing by the european union today means sending clear signals to all the extremist ethnic albanian groups who do not want peace, to those few but nonetheless existing extremist organisations or individuals within the hdz in the croatian part of bosnia-herzegovina who want to unilaterally destroy the dayton compromise, as problematic as it is. and i also believe that we must send clear signals to montenegro so that it too does not take unilateral steps which, at the moment, celebrate independence in a big way but which threaten peace and stability in the region.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the dialogue with the citizens is at the heart of our daily work and i would therefore be interested to know what the council intends to do to bring the post-nice process closer to the citizens. it is conceivable, for example, to set up private chat rooms on the internet, where certain topics can be positioned using a search engine, so that citizens can also connect with them on the topics that interest them personally. i think it would also be useful to make available debates in parliament, in the council and in the commission in the form of video streams in the respective mother tongues, so that there is an opportunity to enter into this dialogue more effectively. can you imagine that this could be a key activity for the swedish presidency after the lisbon summit?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals. you have already mentioned that the rapporteur, karl von wogau, cannot be present. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the short-term shift in the agenda has not allowed him to adjust his schedule to be here in person. i would point out that the lamfalussy report and the present economic report were on the agenda at the beginning of the day in their original form, and the rapporteur has long since arranged for a debate on the two reports with the citizens of his constituency this evening. i want to apologize to him again. i shall try to do my best in this respect and i can point out a few points. firstly, we are, after all, in the last year before the introduction of the euro in cash and coins. the single market of the european union thus becomes the real eu home market, at least for the members of the euro area. twelve member states will form this eu home market with a single currency for all citizens and businesses. it is therefore right and important that a careful analysis of the economy in europe be made in this context. it 's been cut once today . the forecasts for the current year and the analysis of the status quo are generally positive, but of course they also contain some risk elements, which i shall deal with later. the positive aspect of all the criticisms and suggestions for improvement is that we have a relatively high growth rate in gross domestic product. on the positive side, the unemployment rate is falling and we have created 2.5 million new jobs in the european union in recent years. the improvement in public finances and the associated reduction in the inflation rate and the price stability that has prevailed for years are positive. we have that on the side of the barn. but there are two elements that should be noted and that can cause concern: on the one hand, this is the economic situation in the united states. growth is declining in the united states, which could have a negative impact on the eu economy given the impact of strong us growth on european trade, and it is also positive that we are becoming more independent of economic developments in america, which is also a positive sign and a positive testimony to our actions. the second element is the slowdown in the european economy. the forecasts foresee an average growth rate of 2.8%. i would therefore like to make it very clear that we must once again appeal to all member states to implement the will to reform more vigorously and to make structural measures sustainable. we must criticize the fact that consolidation efforts have stalled in some countries. i would simply point out that the consolidation efforts are all the more critical in that the majority of countries have still not met the self-imposed requirements of the stability and growth pact, despite the favourable economic situation. a second area to be addressed is the fact that we have to congratulate the ecb on the fact that the policy of the quiet hand has proved to be the right one. the ecb must continue to pursue a stability-oriented policy and may continue to pursue an independent european stability-oriented policy. we have some demands, too. the inflation rate must be kept below 2% in the second half of the year, and a balanced liberalisation of the telecommunications, postal, energy and railway sectors must be rapidly implemented. we need to make a greater effort in education and training. we need to increase the flexibility of the labour market and accelerate structural reforms in the goods, services, capital and labour markets. mr president, let me conclude by saying: the main thrust of the karl von wogau report is also to point to the common principles which can be derived from our organisational principle of the social market economy, i.e. freedom and democracy, competition, price stability and sustainable growth, subsidiarity, solidarity and private property, and the responsibility not only of employers towards their employees but of both towards the future and thus the further development of the social market economy towards an eco-social market economy.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. the development of the european economy can still be described as good. but we also know that we expected more. less encouraging is the fact that inflation may again exceed the 2% threshold and investment may fall from 5.3% to 4.9% of gdp. for this reason, we must continue to ensure that the important european objectives of promoting small and medium-sized enterprises, cutting red tape and reducing the excessive tax rate are also implemented consistently. but we also need to invest in our education systems and reform them so that we don't actually have to feel the threat of a shortage of specialists. in the end, only economic development can be considered successful if it also succeeds in reducing the far too high unemployment rate in europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report on the eu's common strategy for ukraine comes before this house at a time when the symptoms of the crisis in this large and important country at the crossroads between east and west are no longer to be ignored. the murder of journalist georgi gongadse and the subsequent demonstrations, some of which were violent, have highlighted the internal weaknesses and democratic deficits of this country 11 years after its break with the soviet union. the rapporteur, to whom i would like to express my sincere thanks, is aware of all these facts, as well as of the economic difficulties of ukraine, with its high external debt and even greater capital flight, with the impoverishment of large sections of the population and the wealth of a small group. the fact that this is a fertile ground for corruption and international organized crime cannot be a matter of indifference to us all. smuggling of human beings in general and trafficking of women in particular, as well as the increase in illegal immigration, have spill-over effects on the european union and should be effectively combated with the help of the european union, all the more so as, following a future enlargement by poland, hungary, slovakia and romania, the eu's external borders will be pushed towards ukraine. the common strategy towards ukraine, as well as the partnership and cooperation agreement with ukraine, rightly pursue the objective of consolidating democracy, the economy and society and bringing ukraine closer to the eu's system of values. the european union has also made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the future of the union. the eu has also made progress in the area of the protection of the environment. although this sounds more like a future statement in the light of the current situation, the väyrynen report points in the right direction, by finally opening up the prospect of accession to ukraine, but also the possibility of a free trade area without anticipating a future accession. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the eu's external relations. this is all the more so as ukraine plays a key role in european security, as demonstrated by its engagement in the former yugoslavia, as well as its participation in the partnership for peace and the charter on the enhanced partnership with nato. ukraine plays an important role in the eu-russia relationship and as a regional policymaking power. the väyrynen report shows the way for aid to help ourselves and to deepen our mutual relations.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in the headlines today, we read "tod.com". we are facing a real crisis in the field of new technologies. on the other hand, we find that they are actually very much accepted by the markets. the data volumes are currently doubling every three months, so there are basically two opposing movements. the first is the collapse of the stock market and the many bankruptcies that are taking place in this sector, and the second is the enormous need and the enormous fascination in this sector, which is used very widely. it also showed that the domain name has value. the first exchanges are now being set up where you can trade, auction and sell your own domain name. so the question of intellectual property arises: what about licensing? will it be possible in the future to grant compulsory licences if, for example, a link to another page can be easily forcibly established on a known page? how will we proceed with dispute settlement if, let me say this once, there is a conflict between the continents? will wipo be the only authority on this or is this already a wto issue? i believe that we need to look at the issues of abuse and the issues of crime in an international context. what we need is trust in electronic commerce. this can be ensured by proper and fair registration. the eu domain can also be used to signal the acceptance of eu law, which will have a huge impact on e-commerce.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report involuntarily highlights how far behind we are in the eu on two vital issues of our time: functioning democracy and practical internet issues. while we are discussing this issue here, almost at the hour of the ghost, the americans are already at their own senate hearings, where the problem is being dealt with in detail. even for me as the icann director, who was elected to the board a few weeks ago, it's hard to figure out what icann is doing. we don't even take the time to do that. a lot of technical things were discussed. i can't understand why this commission doesn't publicly advocate that we have dot-kids, that we have dot-sex, that we have detailed subdivisions that make all of the things we've talked about possible, a clear separation of e-commerce and public space. it will be crucial to free icann from this american dominance, not because it is dangerous as such, but because it is about the governance of the internet and you have to do what you normally only talk about, mr commissioner: create openness and transparency.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to make two comments on the inglewood report. firstly, i welcome the commission's principle of compulsory codification of legal texts which have already been amended several times and which no longer present a uniform and coherent picture. i also believe that, in the context of the report i have just produced on the pension fund directive, simplification and convergence of life insurance policies is urgently needed, because we are creating clearer lines between the different areas of activity and pillars. it is possible that, with the adoption of the pension funds directive, insurance companies operating in the third pillar and therefore also subject to the life insurance directives may in future be subject to the pension funds directive for their business in the occupational pension insurance sector. once that possibility is in place, it is important that what we do is as clear, simple and transparent as possible. the inglewood report and the simplification and transparency it has introduced are therefore a good contribution to making the report more understandable to the public and thus to a vibrant internal market.
- mr president, i would like to thank you. let me bring in another thought. europe's water industry is facing a massive transformation through the water framework directive. the directive also offers the opportunity to fundamentally rethink national water management and water law and to open up new business opportunities for national utilities and industrial companies. in the water sector in particular, there are enormous opportunities for the economy to create more value for all by opening up markets. efficiency gains through new forms of cooperation in the design, construction and operation of plants between private industry and municipal utilities are a necessary first step in this direction. a second step must be to increase value through exports. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the community's energy policy. but it would be to everyone's advantage. communities and consumers save costs. producers are finding new markets. i believe that exporting water, as other countries export their gold in the form of oil - we in austria, for example, have the white, liquid gold, the water - would be a win for everyone.
- mr president, i have to go. i think there is agreement that the water issue will be a central issue for the european union in this century. it is also to be expected that we are far from giving this issue the attention it deserves. however, it will be an illusion to think that water problems can be solved by pumping water from supposedly surplus areas to areas of scarcity. if we speculate that parts of europe are occasionally flooded and that perhaps this water could be distributed more equitably, we should bear in mind that the very creation of this flood is the result of mismanagement of water. it is high time that much more attention was paid to local and regional water management. water problems must in principle be solved locally and only there within an acceptable financial framework. another area of water production that is being criminally neglected is the conversion of salt water into fresh water. there are huge prospects in this sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's water resources are not used for industrial purposes. we have to prevent that from happening in the first place.
- madam president, i voted against the report on biotechnology because it does not take account of the fundamental interests and concerns of agriculture. i do not mean to say that i am against innovative approaches to biotechnology in general, but agriculture needs special treatment and cannot be compared with the situation in industry. the issues of labelling, traceability and liability are of crucial importance to farmers. farmers are dependent on the supply of quality products, such as seeds, for their production. the farmers cannot be held liable for any damage caused by genetically modified products. this has to be clearly regulated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the principle of case-by-case assessment must be applied to agriculture. an objective and comprehensive examination must include the advantages and disadvantages of the use of genetically modified plants.
- mr president, i have to go. equitable access to medicines to fight hiv and other diseases is, i think, a very important issue. when you consider that in south africa 50% of new infections with aids are young people under 25 years of age, that is to say that a 15-year-old in south africa today has a 50% risk of infection, and when you consider the impact that this situation - that the most active part of the population is affected - has on these young people, but also on the development of this country, then i think it is extremely timely that we say something about this and give a signal in the right direction. we are concerned about supporting and establishing equitable access to medicines and vaccines. we therefore very much welcome the position of commissioner lamy, who will be advocating for the developing countries and their right to introduce a safeguard clause in the wto and in the trips agreements. we must work to ensure that these life-saving medicines are available in the cheapest way possible. this has the consequence for europe of supporting technology transfer and local production capacity. if we are serious about global development, these are the essential demands and the essential steps that europe and all the parties involved must take.
- madam president! - what is it? i would like to explain briefly what we want. it is not that we are more lenient about the situation in iran, but that there are currently difficult talks and negotiations in iran itself to improve the lot of some iranian citizens working in the german embassy. i think we should not interfere with this process now, perhaps by a resolution, which is taking place in iran. we are firmly opposed to human rights violations, but i believe that in this case - and i stress this at this moment - we should not have a debate and we should not adopt a resolution!
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am glad, first of all, for the two rapporteurs that both reports have such a broad support, not only in the committee but also here in the plenary. it is a sign that we all agree that an accelerated pace of change in europe's internal financial markets must also have consequences for policy work. this is what was emphasized in the report by mr lamfalussy on the regulation of european securities markets, which we are going to debate this week. a second evidence of this change is the exponential growth in the volume of shares, over 30% per year between 1995 and 1999. this is a priority because of the strategic importance of well-functioning financial markets for increasing economic prosperity in the eu. the updating of the investment services directive must have three objectives in mind: firstly, to accelerate market integration, secondly, to improve investor protection and thirdly, to ensure market stability. this is good for the markets on the one hand and protects investors on the other. this will also ensure financial stability in the future. i have two other main concerns in this connection, which have already been mentioned. firstly, a fully-fledged european passport for investment firms must be created. in order to take advantage of this opportunity and to remove the existing obstacles, we urgently need to move towards the principle of the country of origin. for large investors this should be done as quickly as possible and for small investors - mrs kauppi has already pointed out - the principle is also correct, but transitional arrangements are probably necessary. another area in this context is the harmonisation of good behaviour rules, which is a prerequisite for a functioning internal market. my second concern is a real competition between exchanges and trading platforms. in order to ensure fair competition, appropriate and efficient supervision must be established. it is therefore necessary to avoid that competition is determined and distorted by different rules and the related search for the more favourable rules. the trend is towards ever-increasing investment in securities, we are also talking about this in pension funds, so i recommend a rapid adoption and implementation - hopefully before 2005 - which would also be in line with the lamfalussy report.
- mr president, in 1992 animal welfare groups from all over europe presented the european parliament with the largest petition ever presented in the world, a petition signed by 2.5 million people who supported the ban on animal testing in the cosmetics industry. i know that when you hold such a high office you no longer have to be directly elected by the people. but i am quite sure that this will also make a great impression on you and you will also be aware that a very large part of the european population here is behind this wish. the reason for the postponement of the marketing ban is simply the commission's fear of the wto. and now we are being asked to replace the ban on the marketing of cosmetic products with a ban on animal testing in the eu. do you really think that the 2.5 million people in europe, the rest of the citizens and this parliament do not understand what is being proposed to us here? it's a little embarrassing. if we cannot even oppose the wto on a ridiculous issue like cosmetics and formulate our own values, what will happen to more important issues, such as the hormones in certain animal products? what are we gonna do? so we're even more afraid of it. let me say that this is not about medical products - it is sometimes said in a subtle way - but that it is about new products. everything that's already on the market -- everything you can look at in any airport, from elizabeth arden to ellen betrix -- all of that can continue to be sold and marketed. and another thing for the scientists in the room: animal experiments are not 100% safe. every scientist admits that's true. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare of the community is not compromised by the fact that the community is not a member of the world trade organization.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am very glad that we are having this debate today, because in the context of the report on occupational retirement provision, the second pillar, there are of course some clarifications of terms. some say that this is a directive that should be applied to financial services. the others say that the directive should be used to cover the whole second pillar package, from taxation to social security and thus biometric risks. the commission has already made it clear that this is a partial step which others must follow - and we agree with this - in order to maintain distortions of competition which are not already present in the directive. the taxation issue is a very important one, but the social aspects, the question of the supervisory regimes, the question of labour and social law, which are explained differently, also play a role. i must say again, commissioner, that for us and for me as rapporteur, this directive is a step, but an essential step, which opens the door. the commission must take further initiatives, which we will address in our report in very clear and increasing detail, because the transferability of pensions and mobility within the eu will only be possible if the member states agree on uniform taxation principles. we know that the level of taxation is part of income taxation and therefore falls within the competence of the member states. however, in my view, a general shift to downstream taxation is necessary to avoid double taxation or non-taxation of contributions and benefits. the second point is very important for us: the abolition of the tax discrimination against foreign suppliers and the pension contributions of non-eu citizens, which is practiced by many member states and amounts to a closure of the pension market. while we may agree on this, we are skeptical in several ways that this is really happening. on the one hand, the announcement of the directive has become a communication - here you will find the reasons. but a second point makes me even more sceptical: before the last plenary session of the european parliament, commission president prodi formulated his demands to the stockholm summit in connection with the occupational pension scheme and the tax question. there is a difference between the demands made in strasbourg last week and the final document from stockholm. the stockholm final document reduces the question of pensions to the labour market of people over 55 and no longer formulates it as a demand for the reform of pension systems and the removal of all tax obstacles, as is announced here. we therefore ask you to turn what you have said today, once again, as necessary initiatives following the directive, into concrete proposals from the commission, so that we do not have any problems with the directive in the field of occupational retirement provision because of the many open questions.
- mr president, i would like to thank you. the fact that food safety and quality, consumer protection and sustainable agriculture should be the union's primary economic policy objectives is unlikely to be seriously questioned. but since we all know that many roads lead to rome, the question of how we are going to achieve this goal in practice is perhaps the more important one. patented recipes are very often used to achieve political objectives. the costa neves report also mentions the new european food safety authority in this sense. we all know that new authorities require additional budgetary resources, but we hardly have any at our disposal. if we really want to secure and achieve the economic policy objective mentioned, we cannot rely on the creation of a new authority to achieve it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the past we have supported large farms at the expense of small farmers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. why does the council want a competitive europe? and why are we behind this goal? we want to ensure that jobs are secured in europe and that new and interesting jobs are created. this is a top priority. the crisis in agriculture due to bse and other diseases will cause problems for jobs in agriculture, butchers and many other businesses. this means that we must think about how we can secure the future and open up new opportunities in the labour force. there are two well-known ways of doing this, namely investment in training and research. in research, investment should be made in particular in market research - what products are consumers buying? - but also, of course, in product research - how can renewable energy be produced in agriculture, for example, and how can this be done to counteract europe's dependence on imports? we have two areas where very intensive employment will be created in the future. on the one hand, we have the field of computing, hardware and software development, information technology in the future, and on the other hand, we all want to age in good health, that is, we need social skills, we need research in biotechnology so that we can also live in good health in old age. access to finance is what we need, access to finance, especially for the micro-enterprises. it is almost impossible today for a company with less than 10 employees to obtain money without a separate guarantee from the family, including the aunt. we must take concrete action here, since firms with less than 250 employees account for at least 60% of gross national product and 60% of employment in europe.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i particularly liked a sentence in mr blak's report. on page 41 of his explanatory memorandum, he states that the discharge procedure should ideally result in a so-called win-win situation. in other words, all the parties involved are winning: the commission, which is being controlled, as well as the parliament, which is being controlled, and, of course, the taxpayers, some of whom are sitting in the gallery. but that means you have to jump over your own shadow sometimes. unfortunately, the commission has not done so in all areas, but at least in the area which i am a little more concerned with, namely the fight against fraud. it is not three weeks ago that we adopted a resolution here in strasbourg, in which we asked for access to a whole series of investigative reports by the olaf anti-fraud office. until now, we have been systematically denied such reports. in the meantime, mr brüner, the director of the anti-fraud office, has made them all available to us. it is also a way of getting the commission to act against those who want to keep parliament informed as little as possible and as late as possible. this has been the position of the sometimes all-powerful legal service of the commission, and we can only hope that the forthcoming change of leadership of this service will lead to a change of mind in this respect. what do we learn from these olaf reports? even for someone who has been dealing with this matter for a long time, it is always surprising to see the extent and sophistication of fraud being organized across borders across europe at the expense of the eu budget. let's just take the example of the butter that's been pan-fried. this mixture of bovine manure and chemical substances was produced under the control of the mafia in italy, but was marketed mainly by companies in france, and in some cases by way of a company in london, to further conceal and cover up this large-scale fraud. all this was, so to speak, the prerequisite for this fraud, which was unprecedented in its nature and scale, to be able to function for years. or take the so-called flax case. at first, it was only about spain. then we had to discover that other member states were also affected and that in the end the fraud in spain was only possible because a company in belgium had issued acceptance certificates for fictitious deliveries. i am glad that, despite the intense political debate in spain over this case, we can say that the cooperation between the spanish authorities and olaf seems to be working well and is characterised by the will to investigate the events and to punish those responsible. the weakest point - and this too must be said clearly and unambiguously - is often still olaf's inability to investigate internal irregularities. we see this most clearly in the case of the allegedly missing protocols in the fléchard affair. this case has been handled with the utmost care. i can relate. if you look at this case with all the consequences, it could turn out that high and senior officials have simply and poignantly lied. that's an explanation, but it's not a justification. if olaf investigates quickly and efficiently, as in the case of the stockholm delegation, then the commission struggles strangely with the necessary disciplinary consequences. this is why the call for a rapid entry into the first stage of the european public prosecutor is so important. we need the so-called internal prosecutor so that the investigations in the institutions are conducted with the necessary vigour and that the appropriate consequences are drawn. the credibility of the commission is also at stake. i therefore ask you, mrs schreyer, to submit a proposal to this house as soon as possible.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am very open about not being very happy about us passing a resolution again. i think that the situation is far too serious for all concerned to be left to day-to-day politics. please don't take this the wrong way. i do not want to prevent the tragic situation of farmers and rural people from receiving the attention they deserve at european level, quite the contrary! i am afraid that if this debate is not taken seriously, it will lead to further uncertainty for our citizens. this tragedy for the farmers needs more than headlines. it's about the existence of a profession. although farmers are currently getting up to 30% less for their cattle, the kilo of meat in the store costs the same, sometimes more. i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. the situation in the areas where foot-and-mouth disease has occurred is truly dramatic. it is not just farmers who are affected, but everyone in the whole countryside, from tourism to thousands of jobs. let me take this opportunity to express my sympathy to the farmers and the people who are suffering from this disease. i hope that everyone is aware of the damage to the farmers and that it will take years of breeding work to rebuild these herds. a word on vaccination policy: i support emergency vaccination measures to prevent the virus from spreading. but we must not suggest to people that animals are healthy and that we do not have to strangle them. i think we have to do that if we want to maintain our status as free of foot-and-mouth disease. i also hope that not only the commission will do its job, but above all the member states. i have repeatedly noted that there are no epidemic carpets in airports throughout the european union today. this hygiene problem is the responsibility of the member states.
- mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. you know that as rapporteur on this subject, this is a matter of great concern to me. i have two main problems with your present communication, which i hope will be more comprehensive and detailed in its content than what we have just heard. firstly, how do you check that the european union money for the information campaign is being used efficiently and constructively in the member states in accordance with the guidelines and recommendations and the basic political message? i ask you because i feel that we have become more of a transit point for eu funds and, under the guise of subsidiarity, are giving up the leadership role in the information campaign. secondly, what are you going to do to convince the relevant ministers, and above all the ecofin council, to take part in this necessary information campaign, not merely by making recommendations but by committing them to it?
- mr president, i have to go. my question relates to the green paper on efficient pricing in transport. since emissions are an essential measure of how transport and mobility will be regulated in the future, is there any plan to consider in the research field to carry out cost-benefit analyses to determine in which areas of transport pollution would be low or zero?
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the council has set itself the ambitious goal of achieving full employment in europe by 2010. the council should also be aware that job creation requires the consistent implementation of economic reforms. what began in lisbon and was announced in nice was not continued in stockholm. in stockholm, the brakes were set. in this sense, the lack of agreement on the community patent is disappointing. the absence of a european patent is a major obstacle to the european economy. i have been assured of this in numerous talks with american research groups. if we want a europe that encourages private commitment, risk-taking and entrepreneurship, then these long-needed liberalisation steps must be taken. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the single market for services must finally be achieved.
mr president, honourable members of the council, honourable commissioner! the applause also showed you that we appreciate your work, your efforts to find good, pragmatic solutions, your cooperation with parliament and the progress you have shown on the scoreboard. i am also pleased with the commitment of the swedish presidency, although many solutions are still open. but beyond that, let me draw your attention today to three areas of problem, some of which have already been mentioned, namely, first, the deficits we have, secondly, the lack of solutions because the proposals are not relevant to reality, and thirdly, uncoordinated initiatives by the member states. i shall start with the last one and i would like to support you, commissioner. they think we need new approaches here. we spend a lot of time on parallel initiatives, which very often lack a legal basis and which very often give the impression that they are more nationally motivated than actually seeking european solutions. we need a more efficient mechanism here to actually bring forward the positive aspects of this. the second point is that we have a dramatic development in the european union in the sector of drug use, but also in the production of drugs, particularly synthetic drugs in the european union. over 5 million youths now use synthetic drugs. the european union has become the world's largest producer and exporter of synthetic drugs. if we look at the scoreboard, we don't see too many measures that have been put in place. an initiative plan was presented in 2000, but no further action was taken. i would ask that we put a new emphasis on this. i would like to conclude by saying one thing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fact that of the 50 countries that are among the poorest in the world, only one country, botswana, has managed to break out of the poverty spiral in the last 25 years, proves that the system is fundamentally wrong. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. multinational corporations, in cooperation with former colonial powers and other industrialized countries, have established a system of exploitation of these countries that is no less cruel than the colonial era. it is often the case that the countries with the most natural resources have the poorest populations. take angola, for example. here we see that this is a system that is intended. africa's most resource-rich country was once the world's largest exporter of coffee. today, the wealth could easily feed 12 million people there.
- mr president, i have to go. i get a lot of inquiries from citizens who ship weapons into europe. these are hunters and marksmen who go to competitions. there are very different regulations here. there are serious complaints and people are asking why the internal market is not working in this area. do you intend to take initiatives in this area?
- mr president, madam vice-president, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. the regulation on the granting of aid for the coordination of rail, road and inland waterway transport is an attempt to do good by introducing a new aid scheme to help make the established formula of all sunday-speakers become a transport theme, namely that transport, in particular freight transport, is redirected to more environmentally friendly means of transport, mainly from road to rail, inland waterways, etc. that is, as i said, all well and good. the rapporteur's detailed work on this proposal is also good, including what the committee has added in a long series of amendments: inclusion of short sea shipping, inclusion of combined transport operations, exclusion of the legal nature of the means of transport, public or private, and not to mention a de minimis rule intended to limit excessive administrative burdens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. mr camisón asensio himself has raised this point. we are still living with transport policy guidelines from the last century, admittedly from the middle and second half of the 20th century, but not really with forward-looking models for the 21st century. if we really want to reduce road traffic in the future, we must do more than just change a few aid schemes in favour of rail and shipping. and if we do more, we should do it consistently. the commission has recently put forward a proposal to abolish the quantitative ceiling of 108% in the agreement on transit through austria. i have to say that i am not sure that this is in keeping with the spirit of the camisón asensio report. the forthcoming discussion of this new proposal will provide an opportunity to clarify this question.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. europol estimates that we know that about 30% of all crime is already organised crime. we know that organised crime now generates billions of euros in the various business sectors. for example, again, these are figures from a reliable source, the traffickers alone earn about 1.1 billion euros from their business, namely illegal crossings, and about 51 billion euros are laundered into the european union from eastern european drug money every year. but all of this money - and this is the dramatic part - is being put into the legal economy. if they are brought in, it damages the legal economy and ultimately undermines our entire social system. for all this, organized crime needs the tools of money laundering. new methods were introduced because the old ones no longer worked. new professions have been used, abused, involved in every case. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat drug trafficking, and it is therefore proposing a new directive, which will no longer deal with drug crime but will extend the list of crimes to all forms of organised crime, and will of course also take account of all the professions and sectors of the economy which are at risk of being involved in this money laundering business. but when we are drawing up this new directive, we must not lose sight of one thing: the objective is to combat organised crime, and the instruments created must be practical. i therefore strongly support what mr lehne has done in the report because he pursues precisely these objectives, in part in contrast to the council, which has ignored some of them here, or at least no longer seems to have the practicability in mind. the lehne proposal - as mr lehne himself has pointed out - is a proposal which does not bother the ordinary citizen when he asks for an apartment somewhere, but goes so far as to say that it is only necessary to ask for identification when a business transaction is being carried out. it refers to scales of magnitude relevant to the area of money laundering and does not concern the small citizen who goes to the bank somewhere. it covers all occupations in which services such as banking and so on are used. that means he's making a proposal that's workable. i therefore hope for the full and broad support of parliament, because this will create an effective instrument in the fight against organised crime.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the representatives of the professions - tax advisers, lawyers and notaries - are aware of the danger of money laundering to the social, financial and economic stability of states and condemn any professional colleague who knowingly participates in the criminal activities of his clients. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. our task, and i am referring here to the tax advisers, to whom i also feel i belong, is not to spy on our clients and to report them where necessary, but rather to give them fair legal advice and prevent them from committing criminal activities by providing preventive information. but this information function will be taken away from us if the council's proposal is adopted and clients in the future have to fear that they will be reported by us after a confidential conversation. the right of citizens to confidential advice is one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law and must remain intact!
- mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. european agriculture is in crisis because of bse and foot-and-mouth disease. the need for action to overcome this crisis as quickly as possible is also nothing new. the only difference is in the measures to be taken. the starting point is the ban on feeding animal flour. this ban is necessary because we are in a crisis of confidence. it is important to note that this is not just a systemic crisis in the sector, but the need for confidence-building measures for consumers. the ban on animal meal is one such measure to restore confidence. but there must also be a european protein plan. this protein plan must make europe independent of imports from third countries, precisely because these imports contain genetically modified soya. we must find a model which enables european farmers to respond to these new requirements. i see the complexity of the problem in the context of the wto. but i think the commission's proposal to limit the production of legumes to organic farmers is far too vague. i therefore support the line taken by the committee on agriculture and rural development that the cultivation of set-aside land may also be allowed, for those farmers who participate in the environmental measures under regulation 1257/99. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not used for animal feed purposes. i believe that an honest approach to the consumer can lead us out of this deep crisis, taking account of the dramatic situation of farmers and the threat to many lives. i hope therefore that industry will support this without any problems, because if what is written is in there, it cannot be a problem for industry!
mr president, i would ask the authors of amendment no 9 to withdraw that amendment. i can explain right away. there are many people in this house - probably all of us in this house - who would like to see an agreement on the name fyrom or macedonia reached soon, especially between the two neighbouring countries, macedonia and greece. if a vote is taken today, i fear that it will not be a positive outcome, or at least a very close one, which would be contrary to the intentions of the applicants. i would therefore ask the applicants to withdraw this request. the commission has already expressed its will, and that is the will of many in this house, but i do not think that the motion as such should be tabled today, especially as the two countries greece and macedonia/fyrom are close to reaching an agreement. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i would like to stress the importance of implementing the regulation in the spirit of the montreal convention. a uniform system of liability in air transport creates transparency. it protects not only the interests of the passenger but also those of the company, which can assert itself on the basis of generally accepted standards in international air transport. the competitiveness of european airlines must not be undermined by liability provisions which go beyond the montreal convention. in order to create a comprehensive uniform system in the sense of the montreal convention, i therefore call on the member states to ratify it as soon as possible!
- mr president, i have to go. i was going to correct our vote immediately, unfortunately you didn't see it in this confusion. it is known to this house that i have been asking for a serious debate since the beginning of this debate. we, the members of the austrian people's party in the european parliament, have spoken against this resolution because we believe and are convinced that it does not correspond to our idea of a european agricultural policy. it is clear that such resolutions cannot meet the real existential fears and needs of european farmers, given that there are 80 different types of viruses and 300 million animals in europe. i would also point out that in austria over 60% of the land is mountainous and in disadvantaged areas. we are dependent on exports and we must do everything we can to ensure that these areas remain populated. i think it is not serious to make day-to-day policy at the expense of the farmers. i can't imagine how you label animals that have been vaccinated. the consumer protection is a matter of great concern to all of us in this house, mr president. i don't think the consumer would honor us with that. it would only lead to a further erosion of confidence.
- mr president, of course we are deeply shocked by the american president. the worst thing would be if we now also questioned our own objectives in europe. the opposite must be true! i would remind you that we have many documents, such as the white paper on renewable energy sources, and many directives which we do not fully apply and implement. the more credible we are ourselves, the stronger our arguments will be to the united states. we must also try to convince the american intelligence community, bypassing the american government, of the benefits of reducing pollution. it is essentially the environmental benefits that shine through. but there are also massive economic benefits, and there are social benefits. if we create this communication, we have a chance to prove that the economic future also lies in the implementation of environmental goals.
madam president, it would of course have been good if we had been able to discuss this urgent matter today. i would like to draw your attention and that of the house to the fact that mr daniel cohn-bendit and myself have been in turkey in the last few days as part of a very spontaneous action. mr cohn-bendit is the chairman of the delegation which will visit turkey and its prisons in june. we also had a meeting on this subject today. mr cohn-bendit and myself, as i was present, have in the last few days in turkey expressed very clearly and distinctly the position of this parliament to the government, the minister of justice and the minister for europe, but also to the organizations organizing this hunger strike, to the human rights organizations and to the members of parliament. i didn't want to leave that out. we have tried to express very clearly the views of this parliament to the government, to parliament and to the human rights organizations in a very spontaneous action, given the urgency of the matter!
mr president, like my predecessors, i think that we should take the case of mr sikhrovsky, which we are discussing today, as an opportunity to think beyond the mere routine treatment of the meaning and absurdity of parliamentary immunity. the historical roots of the immunity, namely the free mandate of members of parliament to protect them against the interference of a power which was often still monarchical in its origins, can now only partly justify the institution of immunity. there can be no doubt that for statements made in the direct exercise of the mandate and for votes in this house, the factual immunity - also known as indemnity - must be fully guaranteed today. but when it comes to actions and statements which are becoming increasingly political, and when it is not a question of protection from state prosecution but of the rights of citizens vis-à-vis members of parliament, unreasoned immunity is now reaching the limits of its legitimacy. that's when immunity becomes a privilege. if we in the european parliament, unlike many national parliaments, still grant very wide protection, then each individual member should behave in a way that allows us to actually maintain this practice. the generosity of our parliament, which is also the result of considerations of principle in this case - and that is how it should be - also benefits members who belong to parties which do not take the protection of freedom of expression and information very seriously at home.
mr president, for a long time now, the austrian domestic political scene has been able to rely on the fpö and jörg haider to flood all their critics - whether media outlets, individual journalists, other politicians or private individuals - with lawsuits. the present minister of justice was the lawyer in those cases. some of the judgments that have been handed down are also really interesting, because the austrian judges can at least now show enough independence. for example, in the internationally known case of jörg haider v. university professor anton pelinka, the fpö was recently found to be liable for the allegation that it had destroyed the horrors of national socialism. we would have expected a similar clarification of principle in the case of jörg haider against our colleague johannes voggenhuber, namely clarification of the character of the fpö, whether it is a fascist, neo-fascist, post-fascist party or not. in order to be able to prove the truth here, johannes voggenhuber, unlike his colleague sichrovsky, had demanded the lifting of the immunity itself. for reasons of principle, which i share, the committee on legal affairs and the internal market could not accept this request. i hope, however, that the judicial clarification of the fpö's character is possible in other ways. i would like to use the remaining time to say how surprised i am that the report, as adopted in the committee on legal affairs and internal market on the sichrovsky case, has been altered on its way to the plenary so that it is not as clear in some parts as it was voted on in the committee on legal affairs and internal market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i congratulate the swedish presidency and the rapporteur on their initiative. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the legal framework is not distorted. transparency must also be given special importance in the institutions of the european union. i hope that this will not remain the intention, this commitment, but that in future, full access to the documents will be guaranteed. democracy and citizenship are always linked to the transparency of political decisions. it is not only the citizens of europe who have in the past - and i think rightly - complained about a policy of closed doors. i would have preferred a more comprehensive compromise. but i think you have to be able to be satisfied with what you've achieved for now. parliament, as the representative of the european public, has the task of monitoring closely compliance with this regulation. in a year or two we will be able to take stock of whether this regulation is actually a success.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is what we have to determine here. i am glad, however, that this regulation will give not only members of parliament but all citizens of the european union the opportunity to have access to all documents. we parliamentarians will benefit from this, i hope! if we succeed in making the transparency introduced by this regulation a principle of the institutions of our european union, then great progress has been made. if there are some exceptions to this, i consider that to be a positive. it's a good thing there's only a few of them, but it's also a good thing there's this few. because the few exceptions are for security reasons and to protect privacy. i think that is important in this context because it has achieved one thing, namely to strike a balance between total openness and transparency on the one hand and the security interests of the union, of the citizens and the protection of privacy on the other. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we must maintain this balance and not let it slip. i am not sure how the register will be set up in the future and how the possibility of access will actually be granted. a very clever colleague said in a discussion today that there are two ways of making people look stupid, namely by not giving them information - which, thank god, has survived - or by feeding them unstructured information. both are bad, we don't want both. we therefore call for a register that is structured, readable and that takes account of the intention to be truly transparent. in conclusion, i hope that this regulation will really bring new thinking to the institutions of our european union, that it will not simply be written down on paper, but that it will in fact remain with the difficulties that are already known. then we really need to be guaranteed that we will be able to evaluate it after a relatively short period of time. a review in 2004 is necessary to reveal the weaknesses of the system, which now seems to be extremely positive, and, if necessary, to take another step to make the principle we are committed to a permanent one: the transparency of the institutions of the european union. i congratulate all those who have worked on this report on this result!
mr president, dear swedish presidency of the council! please, what's wrong? the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome. and then a thought comes to mind, gretchen would love to mark this day. state watch, which is concerned, the european federation of journalists, etc. say, and i quote: rather than enshrining the rights of citizens it undermines ... what we are talking about today and what we have to vote on the current code enshrines the rights of member states, albeit in a different form. goethe again, faust again: i hear the message well, alone, i lack the faith to interpret it. maybe you're trying to get in between, maybe what's happening here today is not a historic day. but at least we get to see what the european union is doing, like a new car. they say, "now you can look at it". let's do this the european transparency initiative has recently been set up to provide as many european citizens as possible with access to as many documents as possible, including those of council meetings. now we're going to see which documents are real and which are sensitive. what is sensitivity? we are all very sensitive. how will you interpret the sensitivity? you're gonna tell me you can look at the car, but the engine's sensitive, the seats are sensitive, the steering wheel is sensitive? or are we getting there? i think that we can be hopeful if we take the example of the united states. it took decades to pass the freedom of information act, and it started with a first look at the vehicle. but please, mr president of the council, and also those of the future, do not give us the money, do not tell us that it will be too expensive if we ask more specifically. there's money for that. in the united states, the freedom of information act costs 40 million dollars every year. the american government's public relations costs 1.5 billion dollars. i would say as our congratulatory rapporteur, mr cashman, said that this is a self-developing thing. we are committed to self-development by 2004. i think we should not be pharismatic but instead, also in terms of transparency, start here in parliament!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. with tomorrow's decision on the first association and stabilisation agreement with a balkan country, the european parliament is also taking an important step towards the integration of the balkan region into the european union, particularly with a view to the accession of macedonia. it is no coincidence that we are the first country to conclude such an agreement with macedonia. since its founding, this country has been extremely cooperative and constructive with its neighbours and thus with the european union. all governments have tried to give minorities, especially the large albanian minority, a share in social and political power. this certainly was not without controversy and problems. the international community, and this parliament in particular, has also helped to meet some of the urgent needs of the albanian people, particularly in the field of higher education, not least through the establishment of the university of tetovo. i can understand, however, that the albanian population in macedonia does not consider these achievements to be sufficient. but i cannot understand, and i do not want to accept - we all cannot accept - that extremists and terrorists use the unfulfilled wishes as an occasion for attacks and murder. (applause from the centre) we must condemn in the strongest possible terms these methods of achieving political objectives, which are totally inappropriate in a democracy. in a democracy, no one can bomb and kill themselves in negotiations. violence and terror cannot be rewarded and must not be rewarded. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is not further worsened. the albanian minority certainly enjoys a special status because of its size, but this must not lead to new discrimination against smaller minorities. the albanian language must be given greater recognition and the proportion of teachers, judges, police and administrative officials must be increased gradually, but also in a qualitatively justifiable and comprehensible way. some provisions of the constitution were also called into question. i do not want to give advice on whether or how to change the constitution. but after all the good and bad experiences with the emphasis on the ethnic question, the inalienable individual and personal rights of every person and citizen of macedonia should be the main focus. ethnically motivated special arrangements should be subordinate. i do not think we should encourage or support the ethnification of society by the european union. the newly improved relationship between the slavic-macedonian majority and the albanian minority requires a greater willingness on both sides to tolerate and accept, but also to integrate and show solidarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the need for regional cooperation and the permeability of borders also involves the creation of a common macedonian state. in my many trips to the balkans - mostly with my colleague doris pack - i hardly met anyone who dreamed or dreamed of greater albania. but the albanians of macedonia, who are a people represented in several states, must here take account of fears and apprehensions in this respect with particular sensitivity. the community's political leaders must not be swayed by the threats of extremists and terrorists. i am also of the opinion that all macedonian politicians must work together to solve the urgent economic and social problems. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals. the agreement we are about to adopt tomorrow will help to solve the economic and social problems of the country. extremists are not bringing macedonia closer to europe, but are taking macedonia away from europe. it serves no one but the extremists. i would like to say, however, that in view of recent events, the same applies to the counter-violence which is already apparent. it is also only useful to extremists. i would like to ask all the responsible politicians in macedonia to have the courage to implement the necessary reforms. i would like to thank the european union representatives, javier solana, chris patten and the commission representative in skopje, in particular, for their efforts. the european union can also help macedonia to solve its current problems, and we can certainly help macedonia to solve the problems of the region better. in this sense, i wish not only the agreement but also macedonia all the best and success in solving this difficult task! (applause from the centre)
mr president, according to the international atomic energy agency, the number of thyroid cancer cases has increased sharply. this is stated in a report by the otto-hug-institute of the university of munich. the who predicts that in the gomel district of belarus alone, the main affected area, one third of the children who were under four years old at the time of the accident will develop thyroid cancer in their lifetime. in seven million people, the effects could be felt for the next 50 to 70 years. in belarus alone, 800 million euros are missing annually for the treatment of radiation victims. they don't treat people over 45 for lack of money. that means their certain death! the commission's budget for the sixth eu nuclear research programme, which is 1.2 billion euros, is a sad balance sheet. the european union is called upon to adopt uniform, stringent nuclear safety standards. a second chernobyl must be prevented. therefore, no sham environmental tests should be carried out as in temelin!
the commission has already done so. the chernobyl disaster would not have been considered possible before, even in a dictatorship. of course, i do not believe that this can happen in any british, french or german nuclear power plant. but there are a lot of nuclear power plants around us with outdated russian technology. i only think of bohunice, koslodui and ignalina. they are considered to be beyond reprocessing, even with the very best western technology. in austria there is no one, no party, who is in favour of using nuclear energy. we've learned to accept that we can't force anyone to do what we do. but we can do one thing: we have the right to warn against dangerous nuclear power stations, which would not be authorized to operate in any country of the european union. when someone builds a house today, they ask the neighbors, is the tree in the garden too high, does it give too much shade? if someone runs a nuclear power station which would not be licensed in any of the applicant countries, then you talk about national sovereignty, you are offended when you are asked about safety standards and when you are asked for information. we austrians - i think i can really say this for all of us - have long been calling for uniform standards to be applied in all european countries. i would like to ask you, commissioner, to do so twice today. i know, for example, that french technology may not be comparable to british technology, and that french industry may not want to share its secrets with the rest of the world. but there should be a minimum of consensus. it should be possible to say whether an old or new nuclear power station being built in a candidate country - and i think temelin is quite clear on this - is safe. i can say that if a nuclear power plant is not authorized to operate in any country of the european union, i am against having a nuclear power plant in an applicant country which does not meet our standards, whatever country it is! i think we are harmonizing so much in the european union - our common values, thank god! we will soon have a common currency, wonderful! we also talk about the joint curvature of cucumbers. why is it not possible to reach a minimum consensus here? i have tried to achieve this minimum consensus in my group. i think that tomorrow mombaur or chichester will table an oral amendment. i would ask you very warmly, if you are still here and able to listen, to vote in favour of this oral amendment. the commissioner, especially with regard to the dangerous nuclear power stations around us, i say: there is no limit here, where the danger ends. i am thinking of the candidate countries, i am thinking of the nuclear power stations that cannot be retrofitted, but i am also thinking of the nuclear power stations that may be built. it must be possible to say that we want british, french and german standards. if that is not possible, then i wonder why we bother with the curvature of cucumbers!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, who are still here! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of drugs. but unfortunately, you are god's problem, and not just a problem, but the problem itself. the fact is that the use of drugs, which is now so widespread, is threatening to destroy a part of our youth and, as a result, a part of our society, and to undermine it through organized crime. drugs are only helping a few in the field of organized crime to make big money, but on the other hand they are destroying many lives and many existences. i would like to add some figures to what i have just said, which have been made available to us by europol and the drugs monitoring centre in lisbon. it is estimated that some 8 000 tonnes of cannabis and derivatives, 350 tonnes of cocaine, 60 tonnes of heroin and at least 50 million ecstasy tablets are placed on the european market each year. these are the latest figures available. all of this is being consumed, and increasingly by young people. when you know that studies show that about 20% of young people have used cannabis at least once and that an estimated 5 million young people use synthetic drugs, alarm bells must ring. the producers, the dealers, who deal in these drugs are part of organized crime. they're running their business at the expense of the youth. we must therefore do everything possible to combat this crime - which is part of organized crime, as i said - in the union and internationally, with representatives from the other countries of the world which are also affected. i therefore welcome this swedish initiative, which takes us a step further. it's a puzzle in the overall toolbox that we need to be able to survive here to some extent. the first initiative, which concerns the transfer of drugs for the purpose of drug analysis and testing, is designed to avoid abuse by transporting large quantities, but is very suitable as a tool in the fight against drugs. secondly, i think it is particularly important that analyses be used to verify the origin of synthetic drugs. both instruments are essential in the fight against drugs and organised crime. but what needs to happen is that the network of these laboratories, which have the appropriate standardisation and quality, needs to be extended. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so there should be no separate or parallel work, but it should be done together in cooperation with europol. the third point which i think is very important is this: although the european union has now become the export market for synthetic drugs and the candidate countries are the recipient countries - they have also become transit countries, they have become destination countries - we must now involve these candidate countries intensively with all the instruments at our disposal in order to build a greater security area, which is our aim. the aim, and i know it's far-reaching, is a drug-free society. it will be difficult to achieve, but with these steps we are undoubtedly getting a little closer to the goal.
- mr president, we all know the european baseline data. economic growth in europe is slowing down. the reasons for this are, among other things, rising oil prices, but also higher interest rates, which are already weighing on our corporate profits. we now have several opportunities to take measures which should lead, above all, to higher economic growth in europe. but we cannot simply increase public investment. we need more strikers in our european economy. we've got too many defenders on our court, but we've also got a bunch of reserves who aren't playing. i therefore believe that the framework conditions for our working population must be improved. it is therefore essential to reduce the far too high tax rates if we are to make it worthwhile to work in europe again. the budget of the national states must be repaired first and foremost by cutting red tape and not by adding to the burden on our people.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. let me start by saying that there is of course a link between the euro, which will be available to all citizens in coins and notes on 1 january 2002, the maastricht criteria and the stability and growth pact. the fact that we now have a stable euro for the whole euro area is not only due to the calm hand of the european central bank, but also to the correctness of the stability and growth pact. for me, debt relief means taking responsibility for the future. i believe that debt reduction and annual deficit reduction represent a radical change in policy, because for decades we have been selling out the future in economic and fiscal policy, making young generations a burden on the nation, instead of taking the burden off their shoulders and opening up the prospects for the future through balanced budgets and surpluses. the stability and growth pact is therefore a question of responsibility for the future. on the other hand - let us be honest - it is a really successful binding framework against the greed of everyday politics and against opportunism in everyday politics. it is therefore an important framework against political misconduct in day-to-day politics, but it is also an important framework for something, namely for the dynamisation of the financial, budgetary and economic policy debate in our member states. since the euro, since the stability and growth pact, there has been much more open discussion on budgetary policy, there has been much more open discussion on the origin of the deficit, there has been much more open discussion on the relationship between budgetary, financial, economic and structural policies, and there has been a dynamism in the necessary reform steps to achieve a different objective. it's not one group playing against another. i am therefore very pleased that we are - and do not misunderstand me - precisely because we are currently discussing some of the growth figures again, because they are being revised, that we are also discussing the stability, growth pact and convergence criteria in this house at this very moment, because we are making it clear to the population and the public - including the political - that changing growth figures cannot lead to a change in the stability and convergence criteria. the stability and growth pact is not a toy and it cannot change its policy on a day-to-day basis in the short term, only if it becomes more difficult to implement it and take the next step. so there is no room for adjustment fatigue today. i would like to ask everyone to put an end to the fatigue that has begun. further structural reforms are urgently needed because we need to move from one-off effects to sustainability. we must cut taxes, but not at the expense of the stability and growth pact. we should also finally put into practice the words we have been saying - and i am speaking to the council - about a stronger reform of pensions and the development of the three-pillar model at european level, so that we can continue on this successful course.
- mr president, i have to go. mr arvidsson has twice tried to point out a difference in amendment no 4. you never said anything about it, but you did point out that amendment no 4 as it is adopted today is different from what it was in committee. at least that was a hint. i assume that what has been presented today is valid, just to clarify that.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the unanimous vote in the committee has shown that we are generally satisfied with the progress made since our last debate on 4 october last year. the amendments are intended to refine the proposal and bring it up to date and unbureaucratic. in practice, however, we are still a long way from that goal. we must do everything possible to ensure that the agreements are put into practice and that the freedoms we affirm as a fundamental principle of the european union actually determine the daily lives of all people, not just young people in europe. my dear colleagues! since the introduction of the internal market, the mobility of citizens has already increased, but it can still be increased. we must continue to remove all the obstacles which still stand in the way of freedom of movement. equal rights and benefits, recognition of study abroad, promotion of linguistic diversity, promotion of information exchange and the removal of administrative and financial barriers must be put into practice and not just written into the action plan. one of my predecessors pointed out that we are not yet at the point of arrival on the question of taxation, on the question of the recognition of health insurance, on labour and social law, on social security and on the mutual recognition of diplomas! i therefore call for greater application of the eu principle of non-discrimination in all these areas, because mobility also requires social support and certain minimum standards so that those who are mobile are not disadvantaged in other ways.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am glad that we are discussing so many reports together, because it expresses so clearly the interconnectedness of all the issues that are relevant to education policy and to our lives. the different areas of education policy should not be separated from each other, just as subjects should not be divided into different curricula and each one should defend its own field the most. i think this debate illustrates that very well. i am in a pleasant situation today because in my country, austria, school networking in relation to e-learning and new media is at the forefront in europe. 61% of schools - that is 3 860 schools - are connected to the internet in my country, and all secondary schools - about 1 000. 1 090 already present themselves on the internet. all universities are connected via the academic computer network and thus also in the european high-performance research network ten 155. i am glad of it, but i must say that it is not over. it is a good, important development that we have started, but further steps are needed, and i am therefore very pleased that the commission and the swedish presidency have launched the european school net, the e-scola initiative. only last week, it was shown how computers and the internet are actually being used in the classroom to improve the quality of teaching and to create new learning opportunities, with the aim of using and making available the collected teaching and learning materials and practical examples in the future. commissioner, i thank you for your urgency in this matter. we're on the right track together. the objective is clear, but we still have a long way to go. i come to some points of discussion here. first, the concept of subsidiarity. i am a fervent supporter of the principle of subsidiarity and i come from a country which has a very strong federal system. i would also ask all the member states not to use the principle of subsidiarity as an excuse - as is often the case - to avoid taking the necessary steps towards europeanisation. subsidiarity in this context means for me implementation close to the citizen, meeting the necessary requirements at regional and individual level, meeting the necessary common european tasks in order to meet the global challenge and our responsibility towards young people. secondly, education - as this example shows - is not an end in itself, but education from schooling to lifelong learning to caring for the new age is the prerequisite for us to achieve our goal of a knowledge-based economy, the number one in the world. education policy is therefore the key to the success of economic policy. education policy is the prerequisite for the youth of today to be able to survive in the labour market of tomorrow and for us to be able to play our role as europe in the world competition. i would therefore like to say to mr korakas, who thinks that protests are already starting against these objectives: we as politicians must do everything we can to tell people that this development is taking place and we must prepare ourselves for it. so three points to conclude: firstly, as mrs martens was saying, it is not just about the computer equipment. it also raises the ethical question of how to use what is available through the computer. the ethical question of the benefits of this is an important educational task alongside the handling. we must also ensure that no new social explosives are created between those who know and those who do not. this can become the new class struggle if education does not intervene in a socially just way. i therefore also call for industry to sponsor schools so that everyone can meet this need for computers. the next point is lifelong learning. i ask that everything be done to ensure that the elderly are not forgotten in the process of training, because only in this way can we achieve european objectives, withstand global competition, make enlargement a success and avoid setting off new social explosives.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to make some clarifications in my report which i believe are necessary. firstly, the report by karl von wogau is not a school report on the state of the economic policies of the member states. the report by karl von wogau is a report on the economic policy guidelines for the future and an analysis of the status quo. i am therefore very grateful that karl von wogau has chosen the concept of the internal market in connection with the introduction of euro coins and notes, because the single currency is the biggest integration project of the european union today. with the introduction of the euro, including coins and banknotes, we will have a clear view of the european home, which everyone in the eurozone will then have in their hands, also visibly, in a common currency. and it is good that the concept of the home market also makes the integration policy project euro so clearly visible to the population, since it can provide enormous impetus for economic policy, employment policy and integration policy. the second point is that i do not understand the committee on employment and social affairs if it is still trying to play capital against employment, growth against employment, as mrs weiler said a little bit. it was therefore necessary to place the concept of the social market economy once again at the centre of this report. i would extend it to the eco-social market economy. what do we mean by that? we are against the separation of growth and employment. we therefore commit ourselves to the pact for stability, growth and employment. the social market economy promotes social responsibility, environmental sustainability and education policies that are intended to be lifelong learning. i would like to conclude by appealing to the council: the economic policy guidelines require the cooperation of all of us. if the report calls for the eu financial services market to be integrated and efficient, and if at the same time we always talk about the important role of pensions and the acceleration of the procedure, i have to tell the council that the last ecofin council, while continuing to make lip service, is acting contrary to lip service on pension reform, on occupational retirement provision and the lamfalussy report. the economic policy guidelines will be implemented with the active participation of the council. it's time for this! (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the union's economic growth is clearly in danger of going dormant. it is true that there are repeated declarations of intent to promote small and mediumsized enterprises. the fact is that we are giving them far too little support, even though they are the engine of our economy and safeguard our european jobs. if we really want to help them, we must work to change the economic framework. this means that our administrative systems and laws need to be modernised and simplified. the much too high tax rate must be significantly reduced. these measures should be safeguarded by supplementing the maastricht criteria for budget deficits and debt by the limitation of administrative expenditure. the administrative expenditure of the member states may not exceed 8% of gross domestic product. the savings potential that has been used could finance the tax reforms that are absolutely necessary and could give a lasting boost to the engine of our economy, small and mediumsized enterprises.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank karl-heinz florenz. it has, after all, worked through, evaluated and discussed 334 pages of very detailed material, 70 pages on dangerous substances and 264 pages on waste equipment. it is a very complex issue, but it is also a very important one, because it concerns all the citizens of the european union. we want to promote waste separation and separate the disposal of electrical and electronic equipment from household waste. this is a very important matter. we know that we currently have about two billion devices in the european union, and that about 210 million devices are thrown away every year. that's six million tons, after all. this is a cost of about 40 billion euros. with such a sum, it is important to consider who should bear these costs and, above all, how they can be managed efficiently and optimally in accordance with market economy principles, so that the most cost-effective and environmentally friendly approach is chosen for the citizen. we know that historical waste reaches enormous amounts. 66% of all these appliances are more than 10 years old and about 50% come from households. this is why binding collection targets are very important. that's why we've been so dedicated to the 20 pounds. we want recycling to be done in a really orderly way and on a scale that ultimately makes sense for the economy and the budget. what is important to me about the ban on substances is that we only replace substances with alternatives that are demonstrably better, sustainable and, above all, scientifically tested. the commission must act here, both to prevent damage and to choose the most environmentally friendly option.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think that the provisions to eliminate misleading labelling of tobacco products are extremely important. consumers must be aware that they are knowingly exposing themselves to health risks by using tobacco. beauty additives such as "mild" or "light" only calm the conscience and conceal the fact that these products are no healthier than any other. but unfortunately the union's policy is contradictory. on the one hand, the protection of health is being promoted, inter alia, by this directive, and on the other hand, the union is subsidising tobacco growing in the community with one billion euros a year. the union must aim to make policies that are comprehensible. but they will hardly be able to explain this contradiction to the public.
in writing. - (de) i consider the provisions on the prohibition of misleading terms in the description of tobacco products to be extremely important. the consumer must be aware that by smoking tobacco he is endangering his health. the fact that such products are labelled as "mild" or "light" only adds to the appeal of the situation and masks the fact that they are no healthier than any other. unfortunately, the union's policy is contradictory. on the one hand, it is very much concerned with protecting health - notably through this directive - and on the other hand, it provides an annual subsidy of eur 1 billion for tobacco cultivation in the community. the european union must set itself the goal of pursuing a comprehensible policy. however, it will be very difficult for the commission to explain this contradiction to the citizen.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the product safety directive is so important to us because it covers a core area, namely those products which are not covered by ce marking. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal. the consumer can no longer tell when a product is really safe. that is why our amendment no 3 is very important, which simply provides for external certification by approved bodies. it is essential that the commission should consider the introduction of test marks. test marks which assure the consumer that the product is safe and test marks which may assure the consumer that the product is above average. a product is considered safe when its safety has been demonstrated by an accredited test body. this is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises. because if we think about the precautionary principle and prevention, we need to create incentives for companies to agree to have their products checked. i believe that the verification by a third, neutral body would be an important instrument in relieving the burden of market surveillance. and by relieving the burden of market surveillance and by providing foreseeable assurance and certification, consumers could clearly see where they could buy products that are safe. i would like to say that there are of course many countries where the standards are completely different from those in europe. i think we should not be so arrogant as to consider the standards of other countries as bad and only our own as good and valid.
i have to say, madam president, president prodi, i would like to know if you think it would be useful to look systematically at the budget lines of the european union to see which budget lines actually provide sustainable development. could we use a method of best practice to check which budget lines are actually substantially promoting sustainable development? perhaps we could also do a benchmarking exercise to see how the budget lines are developing. do they think that the best practice method could bring us to an optimal success?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has been very active in this field. i would like to ask you whether the green paper also takes into account the fact that 18 million businesses in the european union have fewer than 250 employees. this represents two thirds of the workforce and affects over 60 million workers. most of these companies are family-run. many businesses also have a life cycle. we always talk about start-ups, but we should also think about those businesses that are closing down because of age or for various other reasons. i think that we should be careful not to put our lives at risk, because this is a huge burden for the workers in these companies, but also for those entrepreneurs who want to quit. how will the green paper deal with these questions?
- madam president, i have to ask you... in recent years, unfortunately, the names of european politicians have been missing from the history of the middle east peace process. the austrian chancellor bruno kreisky was one of the first to call on israeli politicians to open direct talks with arafat. what was then considered a utopian vision is now a political reality. but where are the european circuses of today? where are the visions, the ideas, the creativity and the courage to do more than the purely bureaucratic duties? in recent years europe has tried to leave the role of political mediator to the united states, in addition to economic and political activities in the middle east, and to concentrate on purely economic issues in the region. perhaps this was a reaction to europe's chaotic and uncoordinated political position vis-à-vis the parties to the conflict. one of the biggest obstacles to eu representatives taking an active role in peace efforts is the sometimes incomprehensible and intolerable one-sided blame and flagrant condemnation. it is incomprehensible, for example, why the swedish foreign ministry, during the swedish presidency, after a visit to israel and the autonomous regions, publishes a unilateral and aggressive condemnation of the israeli acts of violence, thus giving up the opportunity to support the eu's mediating role during the swedish presidency. no one can seriously ignore the israeli side's desire for peace. the last prime minister barak has gone further in his proposals than any other israeli politician. the result is the present catastrophic situation. the new government under sharon, as has happened here, is now being blamed for this, and this only makes the mediation efforts of the eu representatives more difficult. europe must finally understand that for each of us in the middle east there are not just friends or enemies. the only chance for europe to be taken seriously as a mediator is to adopt a common foreign policy language, to maintain a neutral attitude towards the parties to the conflict and to formulate and communicate viable peace proposals. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. the right of return of the palestinians, the division of jerusalem and the temple mount, the problem of settlement policy and the creation of a palestinian state, and the legitimate security claim of the israeli population must be discussed directly by the parties to the conflict. our opinions on this are secondary if we want to be taken seriously as mediators. for all this we need convincing personalities who represent europe and who are also taken seriously by all the parties in the middle east. i came straight here to strasbourg last night from a visit to israel. perhaps my testimony is a little influenced by my personal connections. but you can believe me, this people want peace on both sides. it is part of our job to be able to talk to both sides. it does not always have to be the politicians who are active now.
- mr president, there is always a need for an environmentally friendly, organic production method in multifunctional agriculture. in austria, this has been a long tradition, and the process of rethinking has started in the minds of farmers and consumers a long time ago, but not in many other eu countries. we farmers in austria are pioneers in this field. i am therefore convinced that this is the right path for european agriculture. i therefore support the commission's proposals, which are part of the concept of the european agricultural model. that is why i did not vote for the amendments which aim to raise the premium ceiling above 90%, namely amendments nos 1, 10, 2 and 12, and i very much regret that they received a majority in the vote.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the amendment to the common organization of the market in beef and veal today is a much-needed step in the right direction, namely the extension of livestock farming. i am in favour of reducing production, of guaranteeing the minimum income of small farmers and of increasing animal premiums. the european union must also be prepared for the sudden emergence of crises in the future. it is not yet clear whether the funding for this regulation will come from the savings of the agenda 2000 reforms. both unlimited upward support for agriculture and arbitrary diversion of money from the market order to rural development permanently upset any budget planning. the solution of this problem is still pending.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! as the commissioner and the president-in-office have said, we are not dealing with the situation in a country far from europe, but in a candidate country. there are a number of considerable problems. there are major economic problems for which solutions are being sought - good luck! we will also support the reforms on the part of the european union. there is still very little capacity for and willingness to reform the political system - the president of the republic and the military have also pointed this out. there is little progress on the so-called kurdish question, that is to say, the minority question, and there is the horrendous situation in the prisons. you would think that a government with so many problems would at least try to solve the most immediate and pressing problems. i made a short visit with my colleague cohn-bendit. i myself have been in turkey for only a very short time, but i have nevertheless noticed that at the moment there is a dialogue between two deaf people: on the one hand, the organizers of the hunger strike, who i would like to ask to end the hunger strike, or at least to interrupt it, and on the other hand, the turkish government. if the delegation announced by the european parliament is to have any meaning, any chance of success, then both sides should be prepared to compromise or at least to suspend their respective activities. it is true that the situation in the prisons in turkey needs to be changed. the council of europe has already made a number of proposals to the council of europe, and the council of europe has also made a number of proposals to the council of europe. turkey is a country which, by its own rules, still makes a large number of political prisoners every day, and that is the problem! there are so many political prisoners not because there are so many assassinations, but because the legal situation in turkey ensures that there are so many prisoners, and that is the first point of departure. secondly, even where there are prisoners or political prisoners for terrorist activities - which i do not deny, nor do i want to support terrorism - there must be an end to solitary confinement or at least a reduction to a level that is humanly acceptable. the commissioner has announced a number of measures that turkey now intends to take. i had a conversation with the turkish minister of justice back in january, and these things were already on the table. but it's like the surveillance system, like article 16 and the system of the judge who is supposed to monitor the execution of the sentence: the big question in turkey is, how are things being applied? the same laws can be applied in a humane way, with respect to human rights, and the same things can be applied in a way that goes towards isolation and solitary confinement. i call on turkey to give us, the european parliament and europe, the chance to help it overcome this difficult situation, but turkey must want to do so!
- mr president, i have to go. with all due respect, i cannot share your opinion. i'm not interested in the political content. but first, i would like to point out that my press officer, when he tried to step into this room today, was immediately prevented from doing so. well, that's correct. but i do not understand how three or four people who have nothing to do with this parliament can just walk into the chamber. secondly, when we had foreign minister cem in the committee on foreign affairs, we had an incident like this before where the foreign minister was almost attacked. it is an unpleasant matter for this parliament, whatever country is involved, that the security bureaucracy of this house - i use the word bureaucracy deliberately - although it is putting obstacles in the way of parliamentarians everywhere, is not able to prevent such incidents when turkey is discussed, where one can expect such things after an incident has already occurred. i think that's a scandal! i ask you to take this more seriously than it is, not the political content but the fact of how this can be done. the next time a president speaks here, he will be obstructed or attacked. i would like to know what this means for the reputation of the european parliament. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. as the president of the council and the commissioner have said, we are still in a very delicate and difficult situation with regard to macedonia/fyrom. i do not yet see enough will for compromise and for an understanding on both sides. the ccp must not determine the course, the development and the pace of solutions in macedonia. the kla would like nothing better than to show the albanian parties what it can do and dictate to them what they should demand, and nothing would be more pleasing to the kla than an overreaction by the slavonic-macedonian parties. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the european union must not allow the kosovo crisis to continue for another year. what can be done? first, there is a proposal to amend the constitution, and there is a lot of evidence to support this. i just think it should be as ethnically unbiased as possible and focus on the civil rights of each and every one of us. secondly, the albanian minority certainly needs more judges, more police officers and more civil servants in the administration. the principle of qualification must be applied here too, and the ethnic principle only in the second place. thirdly, there is certainly a lot of work to be done in the field of education and training. in the medium to long term, it is also to be expected that the university of tetovo, which has been substantially financed mainly by the international community - hardly by the albanian diaspora, it must also be said - will eventually become a public university. i think that's the step we need to take. i would like to make one final point of principle: both the president of the council and the commissioner have mentioned the stabilisation and association agreements. in fact, such an agreement was also initialled with croatia. but we must think beyond that. i believe that the region as a whole must feel at home in europe. i would like to ask whether it would not be possible to review every two years after the signature of such a stabilisation and association agreement whether the country concerned is ready or able to obtain the status of candidate country for the european union. i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. some good things were done in zagreb. but i think we should go a step further and say to the region clearly and unambiguously: if you are ready to solve all your economic, social and political problems, then there is also a chance that you will really get the status of candidate for the european union. we, as the european union, are prepared to review the agreements we have already concluded with those countries at regular intervals. only the road to europe, only the vision, the realistic vision of belonging to this europe, can also provide stability in this region. it is not a short-term solution, but it must be possible in the medium and long term, and the vision, the utopia, must be very concrete!
- mr president, i have to go. i do not want to stop the debate, but mr oostlander must have misunderstood me. i do not think that macedonia can now be considered a candidate. it is only to be given the chance to obtain this status by regular review.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the issue of pensions has a social policy component as well as a financial, economic and employment policy component. all these areas must be tackled together to ensure pensions in the long term. i would also like to say that we have the economic policy guidelines and the stability and growth pact on the question of employment and growth policy. the question of demographic change as one of the causes of the pension problem presents several problems: the first is the fall in birth rates, the second is the early retirement in many countries, and the third is the increase in life expectancy, for which we thank god. we must help to ensure that the social and political achievements of mothers and fathers are more widely recognised in the public sphere and that a balance between family and work is achieved. in the case of early retirement, we must ensure that the retirement age in all countries can be brought into line with the legal retirement age. this requires a variety of measures. the question of life expectancy undoubtedly has an impact on the actual retirement age, but in some countries also on the legal retirement age. i ask you to help us to build the second and third pillars alongside the first throughout europe. we have countries today where 80% of the working population has an occupational pension. in my country it is only 9%, while the european average is 25%. we are debating a directive here in parliament and i call on the council to finally remove its block on a european scheme for occupational retirement provision. i call on the commission to set up a european pensions forum which will also discuss the different tax, employment and social legislation in order to contribute to harmonisation throughout europe.
- mr president, this afternoon this chamber was unlawfully stormed during the debate on turkey. this is not the first time we've been harassed like this. it is also about the security of the european institutions. does the council intend to increase security measures for the european institutions?
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i congratulate my colleague mr casaca on this excellent report. it shows that the olive oil regulation has still not been adapted to the requirements of modern agriculture. the need for a fundamental reform of this agricultural policy is once again evident. i would like to give two examples. firstly, one of the main objectives of production aid is to provide olive growers with a fair income and to ensure a market balance. the court of auditors rightly observes that 'the objective of production aid in terms of producer income has never been defined'. this means that no one knows whether this goal was ever achieved, because it was never possible to evaluate it. the same applies to market equilibrium. in 1998, the commission estimated that there were 180 million olive trees. this was a surprise at the time, because olistat calculated with much fewer trees, about 140 million. that's a difference of 40 million trees, that's about a 31% variance. imagine for a moment that you think you're in equilibrium, and then you realize you have 30% too much stock! in fact, the increase in stocks over the last two years indicates a surplus. secondly, the consumer aid which was abolished at the end of 1998 showed similar weaknesses. records, accounts receivable, were not required to be kept. the result is a high level of irregularity and fraud. the recovery of amounts unduly paid for the period 1985-98 still stands at eur 429 million. only 6% has been recovered so far. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. there's a lot to do here. as regards export refunds, only 13% of the funds were recovered. if you are serious about protecting the taxpayers of the european union, you will start reforming this agricultural policy. the report by mr casaca shows the way.
mr president, mr poettering said yesterday that he was a democrat and that he took note of the decision under rule 143 (1). he wished that the majority of yesterday would turn out to be democrats when the tables turn. i can assure him that we're behaving like democrats. but it is particularly important to the democrats that the rules of procedure be respected. if, under rule 143 of the rules of procedure, the subject-matter of a debate has been rejected for inadmissibility on grounds of lack of legal order, there is no possibility, in my view, of putting it back on the agenda by means of rule 111 (2). article 111 (2) provides that the agenda may not be altered, except where, inter alia, article 143 is applied or on a proposal from the president. this is an exclusive arrangement. the second case is not applicable, since we have the case of article 143. in other words, i do not think that today's debate is in accordance with the rules of procedure, and i shall therefore not be taking any further action. one more sentence on the legal basis: in com 2000/444, the commission also proposed that article 191 be added as a legal basis for the staff regulations. that was in july 2000. i cannot understand the claim that this could not have been the subject of discussion in the committee.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european party statute we are discussing today is a step that is long overdue. i would therefore like to thank the commission for helping us to close this gap in the regulation at european level, together with the european parties and the political groups, during this parliamentary term. this is a reflection of what has long been national law for national parties in all member states, despite the differences in the rules. to all those who are talking about parties, i have to say that each of us is sitting here because we were the candidate of a political party at the national level. we live in a party democracy. parties are not an end in themselves. they are an essential tool for a functioning democracy and a link between citizens in the opinion and decision-making process, the political groups and the public. the regulation we are discussing today is a contribution to strengthening european democracy, to intensifying the process of forming opinions and debates within europe and to europeanising national parties. the regulation helps to create more transparency in the financing of political work, more clarity and a separation of group and party work, which has been done for some time by the european people's party - my friend alejandro agag has spoken about this - more intensively than by others. it also helps to ensure the european court of auditors' rights of control vis-à-vis the european parties. but this regulation is also a prerequisite for a debate on a common electoral law, on common rules on incompatibility between members of the different countries and a prerequisite for the debate on the possibility of european parties standing as candidates in the european elections. it contributes to the democratisation of the nice process. we, the european people's party/european democrats, want more transparency and the strengthening of the europe of the citizens, rather than more closed doors and secretariats. we are in favour of the legal system, of the charter of fundamental rights as a qualitative prerequisite for political parties, of the legal personality of european political parties and of the end of cross-financing. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. 10% of the world's trade is transacted through international organized crime, and a large part of it in our european union. if the statistics are correct, the development of the crime sector is extremely threatening, because in the european union already 30% of these crimes are attributed to this internationally organized crime. in view of this development, we must ask ourselves whether the european union without frontiers is really using all its resources to combat this organized crime. in the context of police cooperation, we can say that great progress has been made. we have europol, and europol is working very successfully in the fight against crime. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. with eurojust we now have a new instrument which will start work in 2002 and will represent a decisive step forward in judicial cooperation. eurojust will then work in principle like europol. it coordinates law enforcement in the fight against organised crime. what we have to expect is that cooperation with existing bodies, with the judicial network, with europol, will work and parallel investigations will be avoided. i congratulate the rapporteur. there's only one thing i disagree with her on. it has proposed to use luxembourg as its seat. as an austrian who also knows that the enlargement of the european union is coming, welcomes it and knows that vienna is moving towards the heart of the european union, i am making the counterproposal to mrs gebhard, namely to propose and use vienna as the seat of this authority, not luxembourg.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. since my youth, i have followed the destiny of this country in crisis. i was also part of the parliamentary delegation which tried to break the ice age between the european union and algeria. yet many of our hopes have not been fulfilled. the hopes for the new president bouteflika, who has certainly shown some signs of courage, and for the inclusion of the rcd in the government have also not been fulfilled. the basic evil i see in algeria is that "the power" "le pouvoir", as they say so nicely in algeria, does not really try to create a consensus among the social forces in algeria. i am not talking about the consensus we are often accused of having with terrorists and murderers. there can be no consensus. i am referring to a consensus with all those groups which are not interested in the success of the radical islamic and terrorist forces. the 'power', at least some parts of the military, do not want to create this consensus, but are interested in maintaining the current situation and unfortunately also involved in corruption. for these reasons, incidents like the one that has recently occurred in kabylie are repeatedly occurring, with the correspondingly terrible number of deaths and the consequent alienation between the youth of that country and the ruling class. i hope that the delegation which will be spending the next few days in algeria can convey a little of what is necessary to give the youth of algeria a chance and also hope. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the west, or the european union, has been involved in bosnia and herzegovina because it wanted to make possible the coexistence of different social groups, religions and ethnic groups. we did not want to accept that in europe of today and tomorrow there would be violent and militant conflicts based on ethnic and religious grounds. dayton was the consequence, and led to the creation of a new state, as was believed, which was and probably is the only way to bring peace to bosnia and herzegovina at this time. a lot of us in this house aren't happy with dayton, but it was, like i said, a chance to end the war. but what we cannot accept is that we are taking a step back from dayton. there are some forces who want to do this and want to re-establish new or old ethnic lines of division in bosnia-herzegovina. first, there were the extreme croat forces, who were no longer supported by zagreb and who wanted to create a new croatian state - at least a part of it - within bosnia, jointly and on their own. there are also the extreme serbian forces, who are still supported at times by belgrade and perhaps also by president kostunica, and who also believe that the time has come to take a kind of revenge and to prevent the restoration of some elements of multiethnic life, such as the mosque where these incidents took place, rather than the laying of the foundation stone. the reasons for this development are undoubtedly that the return of refugees and, consequently, the mixing of the various ethnic groups has not taken place to the extent that the international community, and especially we in this parliament, have called for. the fact that refugees are prevented from returning at various levels has certainly led to hopes that the unilateral ethnic orientation and orientation of the individual states, and in particular the republika srpska, will be preserved. but we can't back down now. we must call on all those responsible in this region, and in particular, of course, in bosnia-herzegovina, to restore at least dayton, which is the minimum we can or should achieve in this period, and to restore multiethnicity to the extent or in the direction that it has been. this requires that croatia also take measures concerning the property regime, but also the local conditions for the return of refugees. but it is also necessary, above all, that the republic of sprska in particular does its part. there is the agreement between the croatian foreign minister and the former prime minister or president of the republic of sprska. the president is no more, but even in his time there was little implementation of this treaty and these conventions. we in this parliament must call on all sides, on all groups in bosnia, to finally do what they have committed themselves to do or what the international community has committed itself to do because we were the ones who helped them to put an end to this terrible war and death. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. apart from the fact that if bosnia-herzegovina is admitted, the whole country will be admitted, i would like to ask you, mr president, the following: i voted for friday in strasbourg, as did mr posselt and a number of others. but this time too, it was rejected. that's all we have for thursday. could you explain why we are voting at 6.30 p.m. when we are probably finishing the debate at 5.10 or 5.15 p.m.? you probably won't be able to change that today. but i would ask you, mr president, to ensure that when we discuss urgencies on thursday, we vote at the end of each debate, as we have done in the past. it does not change our position whether we are for or against friday if we could vote immediately after the urgency. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. freedom of the press is without doubt a foundation of any functioning democracy. i think that this has been very well summed up in the motion for a resolution, also in my capacity as a journalist. but when we contrast this with freedom of information, we must go a step further than just guaranteeing that every journalist can practice his profession without interference. however, the freedom of information of the population is also partly restricted in countries where freedom of the press is guaranteed. this is the case, for example, with the financial entanglements of media owners, but also with a decline in what is known as journalistic responsibility. it is worrying, for example, even if it does not fall directly under the restriction of press freedom, that individual journals have started to define the various departments, including the political ones, as profit centers, and thus also to blame the political editorial offices for the number of advertisements in their sections. it is also an interference with press freedom when, for example, as in austria, a daily newspaper changes its political bias in coverage when it is saved from bankruptcy by a bank that is close to a particular political party. there is another problem, namely the tendency to separate information from commentary. the result is a kind of newsletter journalism, where we are confronted in supposedly independent newspapers almost exclusively with the opinions of journalists, influenced by the owners and their interests. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information is not only available to the public, but also to the media. we have an obligation as the european parliament to ensure that freedom of the press is respected in all countries. perhaps in the future we should respect even more the right of the population to diversity and freedom of expression.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by referring to all that mr posselt has said, and i agree with him completely, in order to avoid repetition. i see the importance of the report's objective, but i am not prepared to join in the general cheering, because i also see a number of inconsistencies. this is the case, for example, with the somewhat confused use of the terms recognition, which is widely used in europe, and enforcement of final judgments. the debate on some definitions seems to me to be more accidental than systematic. it is not clear why, in the case of several judgments which infringe the ne bis in idem principle because they concern the same facts, the judgment most favourable to the convicted person should be enforced. the first judgment which has become final prevents subsequent judgments from having legal effect under the principle of enforceability. i too cannot understand the unfortunately widespread demand for the mutual abolition of criminal liability. a criminal justice system which feels itself bound by the principle of legality, that is to say, the principle nullum crimen sine lege, cannot accept any consequences of non-punishable acts in its sphere of influence. otherwise, this principle would be undermined and convenience would prevail. good night, then, for the rule of law!
- mr president, i have to go. what kind of generosity would that be if it were limited to the major political groups? that would be a power-oriented generosity, which i do not want to imply to you! mr president, if we are to solve the crisis of european integration, it is time to speak out. we are witnessing and participating in a power struggle in europe. it is not a question of the federal state against the federation of states, or of the superstate against subsidiarity. it is about democracy, against the power claim of national executives, against a europe of clandestine government cooperation and de facto government legislation. it is about transforming the europe project from a matter for the administrative elites to a res publica. the nice intergovernmental conference has failed. the eu has not become more democratic, more capable of action or more capable of enlargement. the igc has proved to be an inadequate instrument. the heads of state and government are turning europe into a bazaar of national interests. at half past three in the morning, between calvados and kamin, they exchange fishing quotas for fundamental rights, their agreement to enlargement for agricultural subsidies. they were celebrated in nice not for what they had done for europe but for what they had withheld from europe. instead of fulfilling their contractual mandate to advance europe, they have proved themselves to be advocates of national identity and then wonder about haiders and berlusconi. the people who failed in nice now want to be not only the government and the legislator and the master of the treaties, but also the constitution makers of europe! the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the council and the european parliament. it is time to counter this europe of the princes with another europe, a european democracy and a social europe. this is the hour of parliaments. that is the task of parliaments, and i am glad that this parliament is undertaking to forge an alliance of parliaments for a european democracy! ladies and gentlemen, the state and federal debate is boring me to death! we can safely leave it to the next generation, but not the question of european democracy. this is the challenge, so that one day we can say: vive la république d'europe! long live the european republic! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteurs on not giving in to the temptation, perhaps even the pressure of a larger number of members, to demonize the result of nice in a reflexive way, but to try to make an objective criticism. almost everything has been said about nice. i would like to mention one other point which mr poettering has raised but has not really emphasized. i think that the request to postpone the intergovernmental conference in nice, scheduled for 2004, to 2003 is a mistake. the arguments put forward at the meeting are not convincing. firstly, we have important elections in europe in 2003. secondly, there is a broad consensus that the next igc will be short-lived, regardless of the different ideas about the way things are going. it can therefore be accommodated comfortably after the elections to the european parliament. but above all, the desire for a debate on the future of the union on a broad basis would be most likely to be taken into account if it were an electoral issue. the advance smells of flight from the electorate and will be understood by the electorate as such. i warn you!
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this objective and interesting report. the success of nice may be due to the fact that this paper exists and that it is now up to those responsible to make appropriate progress on the basis of this paper. we are concerned about the following areas: the division of powers between the eu and the member states, which could be at the beginning of a constitutional process; the simplification of the treaties so that they can be communicated to the population and understood by those concerned; the involvement of national parliaments in a future united europe, so that citizens are involved and also more enthusiastic about a united europe; and, of course, the charter of fundamental rights. if my colleague voggenhuber here spoke with such despair about the voting behaviour in italy and austria, he might be reminded that the european democracy he so often invokes means above all respect for the will of the voter.
- mr president, the evaluation of a wide-ranging and not always specifically formulated ten-year programme of eu environmental policy is difficult in itself. what the reporter has made of it makes it even more difficult. i think that what the commission has presented to us was a very good starting point. i regret that the commission officials, who have produced a very good report, have had their good work so altered. i cannot congratulate the rapporteur. in the discussion on the evaluation of the fifth environment action programme in view of the sixth, three main concerns were repeatedly expressed in the outlines, which i now find gratefully: firstly, a lean eu legislation, a voluntary approach to implementation - as far as possible - and a stronger involvement of consumers, whose behaviour we want to influence. the first is that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. we are all agreed on this - the industry is also agreed - but the way to the goal is controversial! in my view, the eu path is often two-tracked, contradictory, difficult to implement and involves bureaucracy and costs that go beyond the ecological purpose. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if we have an enlargement, which i very much hope will be very soon, then there will be twice as many, because in the end, with all these mistakes, the dogs always bite the last one in the chain. it's not the industry, it's the consumers. the implementation of the current eu acquis, which is mentioned in the environment action programme and which commissioner wallström has rightly called for time and again, makes sense, and this is also in the sense of the lean legislation we have repeatedly called for. i'm missing a lot of things in this environmental program. we would have brought it in. the only thing that makes it any better is what the rapporteur has made of it. i feel sorry for the commission officials!
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. many people die on our roads in europe every year. we have a great responsibility as members of the european parliament to promote road safety. we also know that traffic is increasing year by year and, in some cases, is becoming a greater source of danger. the question of the compulsory use of safety belts plays a decisive role in this respect. i am very much in favour of the commission's proposal to improve the safety of drivers and passengers in general. i also agree in principle with the obligation to wear seat belts at all times and on all seats fitted with seat belts, or with the requirement in principle to use seats fitted with seat belts or child restraints. i also see a fundamental duty to use restraint systems for children under 12. i would like to point out, however, that in some respects it is necessary to give the member states some leeway in the national implementation of the directive. i am thinking of the use of the restraint systems for very young children. i am thinking also of medical reasons, and i am thinking of very specific situations, needs such as those of minibuses and coaches, which the rapporteur has already mentioned. any further details would be too much. the harmonization of legislation at european level will create transparency and clarity and improve the different national regulations. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report, which i believe is very balanced, and i can assure you today that my group will support it. i would like to point out, however, that the detailed implementation of the directive will now have to be carried out by the member states, and ultimately the member states will also have responsibility for safety on europe's roads.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i would like to make a few comments on the rules of procedure. i would like to ask that we include a debate on the consequences of the referendum in ireland as a separate item on the agenda. i think the irish referendum offers our house a unique opportunity to shape democracy and to intervene now in the current debate rather than always water down the debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the citizens of europe would not understand us if we were to shrink from this issue now. (applause from the centre)
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. the commission has already done so. i think we're talking about one of the most sensitive issues here today: child sexual exploitation and child pornography, and both are on the rise. it is therefore also necessary that we work together more intensively across borders, that we work much more intensively in a preventive way through information and awareness-raising and that we try to involve society more in this process. of course, it is also important that the criminal law is revised and works across borders, as trafficking and abuse and child pornography also take place across borders. we believe that some measures are needed to do this, namely to increase the penalty, that is to say the prison sentences, from at least eight to at least 10 years, and to raise the age of the victim, at which the offender is liable to a more severe sentence, to 16 years, because i cannot really understand what it means when children are abused with 'particular recklessness'. child abuse is ruthless in every form! there is no such thing as mild child abuse. everything that happens to children in this context is reckless. i also think that the age limit should be raised to at least 16 years, because the damage to children under 10 is just as severe as that to children aged 11, 12 and 13. that is why i am in favour of raising the age to 16. the same is true of the protection of these children, not only of the children but also of the families and witnesses. legal and psychological support are very important. it is also important to give children the opportunity to give their testimony by video, which is not the case in all countries. unfortunately, there is no time to do more. but i thank all those who are working for it!
- mr president, i would like to make a comment on the procedure, namely on the address of the council, which is again conspicuous by its absence when it comes to the discussion and adoption of very important thematic areas, as in the case of the klamt report, which concerns a framework decision on the fight against trafficking in human beings. i therefore took the floor because parliament was asked to give an opinion on this framework decision. there was also a personal assurance to the rapporteur that parliament's opinion would be awaited. it must be waited anyway, under article 39 (1) of the treaty on european union, which states that the council will not act until it has received parliament's opinion. the council has already discussed and decided on this matter on 28 may. the council has reached agreement on all but one of the points. that means that there is already a council decision on this subject, although we have not yet been able to hold the debate and although we have not yet been able to submit a decision to the council as a correction. that means that parliament must - and i want to - strongly protest here, firstly because the council has not kept its promise and secondly - and this has happened repeatedly - because it is not complying with article 39 of the treaty. we, the european people's party, reserve the right to take further steps here, but we expect the council to make a statement and to justify itself in this absolutely unacceptable action and in this disregard not only of the treaty but of the work of parliament! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i should like to express my regret today that the house has not voted in favour of taking into account the needs of small primary production, processing and marketing undertakings in the general principles and requirements in the food sector. the traceability of primary production, i.e. processing and marketing, is extremely important for consumers and farmers, and i can only stress this again and again. i would point out, however, that it is essential to take account of the size of the companies and that smaller companies cannot be treated in the same way as global food companies. i also regret, mr president, that there are no exceptions to these provisions for those farms which use feed from their own production for their animals. i very much welcome the extension of the precautionary principle to include food and feed imported from third countries in the interests of consumer protection.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the establishment of a food authority is a necessary signal to consumers whose confidence in food has been severely shaken in recent times. not only the commission but also each member state must have the legal possibility of calling on this authority individually. this makes sense. the european food authority must act independently of the commission in order to be able to intervene as quickly as possible in the event of a crisis. we have high expectations of this authority and we want independent experts who can provide the scientific basis for policy-makers to make the right decisions and to restore consumer confidence.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. in seattle, we learned that the world is changing. i think we have to accept that certain decisions from the past need to be revised. the european parliament is responsible for monitoring the common commercial policy. we are in the process of co-decision in the single market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that sweden, which is a model of transparency, should be called upon to take a step forward in this area under its present presidency. it is quite simply necessary to ensure an open and transparent procedure in the decision-making process under article 133. we know that in the european union, with enlargement and the euro now upon us, we will clearly become the number one in world trade in this world. in america, it turns out that the cooperation between the government, the president and the congress actually works very well, that the information flows very well. the current cooperation between the council and the commission is very good; mr lamy deserves a compliment. i would like the council to take initiatives at international level with the european parliament, because these issues are of the utmost importance for our future. when we are not just 15 countries but more, we will have more weight, and i believe that linking back to the countries is a basic democratic consideration. if we want to build a global market, it will affect us all. it means that we fight for our successes as equal partners.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank commissioner lamy very much for this initiative. i believe that this is an initiative which once again shows foresight and which is already trying to solve problems which we all see coming. we all know that the only way to succeed in world trade is to offer products and services that are actually bought. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in europe we have 18 million entrepreneurs with less than 250 employees. can you imagine that we would also take appropriate measures for individual small consignments up to a certain value of xx euros, so that trade could develop completely freely on this small scale, without barriers and without too much bureaucracy?
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! i would like to begin by thanking you for clarifying that the sanctions against austria were not imposed by the council or by any european institution. i think this is very important because, of course, this decision of the prime ministers was taken without any legal basis and without consulting the parties concerned. it was therefore a misconduct of a kind that has never been seen in the european union. i would therefore like to know whether you, as president-in-office of the council, believe that this decision on austria was also the cause of the irish vote against it last week.
- madam president! - what is it? not every council initiative to harmonize tax rules is good for the citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in fact, the measures are more likely to be aimed at curbing tax competition within the union. this applies in particular to all measures aimed at the harmonization of tax rates. it is difficult to reach agreement on the level of those countries with lower tax rates. most of the time, the only way to do it is the other way around. this is what is happening in the united states, where the government is more economical and the tax rate is lower, and where the government is forced to collect taxes that are not needed. the current council proposal to amend directive 77/388 is quite different, since the measures envisaged are actually intended to make life easier for taxpayers throughout europe. the amendments aim to reduce the administrative burden on farms and thus increase their competitiveness. that is why we can support these amendments which help to make our tax laws really simple.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the real value of the treaty of nice lies in the fact that it has opened a genuine reform phase of the union. this reform is essential for the community's ability to enlarge. i welcome the fact that a more precise timetable for enlargement will be drawn up in gothenburg; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the irish vote, even though only 33% of the population took part, requires sensitive reaction and analysis. i do not regard it as a democratic piece of work. the result of the referendum would be misinterpreted if it were assumed that the irish voted against enlargement. but you voted on the treaty of nice. the history of the union has been marked by numerous irritations: the danish 'no' to maastricht, the british policy in the first bse crisis, the resignation of the commission and the unjust sanctions against austria. we must analyse the reasons for the irish vote in a differentiated way and ask what is wrong with the european project. it is not just a matter of public debate on reform of the union, but of more democracy and transparency in an increasingly complex integration process. the involvement of national parliaments as the vehicle of european democracy is a key issue.
mr president, when cyprus and malta join the union - not if, but if - the union will have the largest merchant fleet in the world. it has less to do with the fact that these two countries are such great sea powers. but both states were convenient for some owners, if i may use the english term deliberately. a large fleet is an advantage, no question. but it also brings with it a great deal of responsibility. we must therefore ensure that our fleet is safe, that safety is paramount off our own coasts, but elsewhere too the european flag must be or become a quality mark. in my capacity as rapporteur for the parliament's report on 'enlargement and transport', i had many discussions with the leaders of the candidate countries at that time. they all very quickly agreed to incorporate the acquis into their own law. i also pointed out at the time that there are still some things in the pipeline, in particular the erika ii package we are discussing today. it's caused quite a stir. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the supervisory inspector in charge is on leave, i was even told on one occasion. we will need much more than an inspector if we are to prevent further disasters from happening off our coast or off other coastlines by means of serious, timely and thorough checks. we will need a sufficient number of properly trained inspectors, and we will need all of that very quickly. the current member states can make a major contribution to this objective. twinning, the temporary transfer of well-trained professionals from the existing administrative and control structures, has recently proved to be a very effective instrument in the case of the reintegration of the german länder. let's use this model again. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion of equal opportunities is a very good one. there are more than enough fears and apprehensions about enlargement. these fears and concerns should be addressed. we need to do this for the big concerns as well as for the more specialised, individual aspects, such as those we are discussing today. there are many irishmen, i would almost say. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission is supposed to monitor, and we monitor the commission. as an austrian, i have no deep-sea port to offer. we lost our last sea battle a hundred years ago. but i suppose we have some very, very nice places to offer, too, if that's what you want.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. bilingualism and multilingualism are not only a problem in the candidate countries, but also an opportunity within the fifteen. is there really a model of best practice and also a comparison, a kind of benchmark between countries to see where the problems are best solved and which model has worked best so far?
draft opinion of the consultative committee on regional policy, transport and tourism. the commission is not i would like to congratulate mr linkohr on his report, even though - and this is due to the votes - i, as rapporteur for the committee on transport, am not entirely happy that a major factor, namely the use of oil, is being treated somewhat in a paternalistic manner in the transport sector. mr linkohr pointed out the situation when it came to the abrupt and sometimes erratic movements in the price of oil, and also to the fact that a number of countries took measures which were not in line with the rules and principles of the european union on the one hand, but also with what we are discussing today, especially in terms of sustainable development. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i particularly welcome the fact that the president of the commission has made it quite clear today that sustainable development is one of the essential cornerstones of the european union's development, and that this includes a transport policy that is oriented towards it. this includes a price policy which, as mr linkohr has said, prevents erratic fluctuations but which does not follow the attitude, for populist reasons, that the lower the prices in circulation, the better. no, it is quite possible that the pricing system and structure in the transport sector, particularly where oil is used, also correspond to the objectives of transport policy. the commissioner has already said that the objectives of transport policy are to shift traffic from road to rail wherever possible and wherever it makes sense. if we have adopted a railway package, if the commissioner proposes further measures, which we are waiting for, then the whole thing also has the purpose of achieving a shift, particularly in the area of freight, passenger and local transport, as a major contribution to sustainable development. the last point i would like to mention is the structure of settlements. we know that this will not happen overnight, but i think we must urge the individual member states - this is also contained in the linkohr report - to bear in mind that, as they continue to develop their settlements, wherever they are built, wherever homes are built, wherever businesses are built, etc., public transport should also be as efficient and environmentally friendly as possible. this is also important to achieve if we want to give sustainability not only a title but also a content.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. what's the increase from ridiculous? parliamentary debate on the witching hour, just before the witching hour. i apologize for being late, as do other colleagues, but that is a special skill. we look around and we think there's hardly anyone there, and the few who are there, who were there before and spoke, then leave very quickly, like ghosts that appear somewhere for a moment and then disappear again. if this were just a ghost debate, it wouldn't be so bad. but it's about tax money, it's about transparency, it's about democracy, it's about the substance of modern economics and mobility. fortunately, we have a harry potter among us, and this is rolf linkohr tonight, who is a little bit concerned that we are making progress in these areas as well, and who has a watchful, unwavering eye for a foundation that many of us are no longer aware of, a foundation for our present society. the fact that there are only 11 members is a self-deprecating indictment of the strength and powerlessness of this parliament. the debate is nevertheless a central one; what are we dealing with? with three problems, i think. firstly, we are still dealing with democracy, social justice and the ecology of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is the subject of this report. i think that one point in this report deserves our attention, because it is a really important one, namely amendment no 6, which, if it were to be adopted in the plenary, and i very much hope that it would, would turn the council from a general proposal to a clear demand that we finally move forward with tax harmonization. tax harmonization, especially in the energy sector, is an absolute basis for citizens to understand that we are not only socially but also democratically united. these imbalances must be removed, for example, by the fact that a truck manufacturer in my home country of austria finds very different conditions of competition from those of another a few kilometres away in germany or france. the commission is called upon to do this, and above all the council. i hope that this report will also help us to make some progress in this area. without transparency, democracy is not possible, not even in europe. that is why i am very much in favour of not only adopting the report but also making progress in the field of tax harmonization.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. before i go into the directive on minimum standards for the protection of pigs, let me say a few basic things. i personally think it is high time that the debate on animal welfare was brought back to normal. in the debate on animal welfare, the recent bse and foot-and-mouth disease epidemics have led to very exaggerated demands on food quality, which are far from reality. i have rarely been able to hear a serious debate with expert experts. too often, hysteria took over and made headlines. let me be very clear, animals are animals and people are people! we keep animals to use them, and if we want to be species-friendly, then it has to be species-friendly. this means that animals such as chickens, pigs or fish are not being treated as species when we try to apply our human-ethical concepts here. i know very well that agriculture is a difficult sector, especially with the tasks and problems it has, especially for those individuals who are not directly affected by it. it is therefore all the more important that we acquire and develop expert judgment so that everything we decide here can be put into practice and applied. we cannot make policy for the ivory tower, we have failed in our task if we cannot find our policy in the implementation for the people. now for the report. i can wholeheartedly support the compromises reached, because the minimum requirements which are being set here are not a problem at all for austrian agriculture and its farms. economic and environmental aspects must be taken into account in the discussion. the geographical location of the farm also plays a role, as do the structural requirements. the funds must be concentrated on the sector, because there is a great deal of investment to be made in this sector. in conclusion, i believe that vocational training is essential for pig farmers and for the other people who are involved.
mr president, commissioner, dear colleague mr brok, i would like to thank you for your work. i fully agree with mr brok's report and with the words he has found. we have to, we want to give money, and we want to give it quickly. we are happy to do so, but of course certain conditions must be met. one element is certainly that we demand from the majority in today's kosovo that they treat the minority today, that is the serbs, the roma and sinti, the bosnians, etc., in such a way that they really get a chance to develop, to live in this country. this will be a crucial issue, especially in the elections to be held in the autumn. how representative are these elections? i welcome the fact that there are elections, but how representative are they if not everyone in this country or those who were subsequently forced to flee can participate in these elections? secondly, it is very important - and this is also what mr brok has said - that we expect the albanian majority in kosovo to draw a clear line, a clear dividing line between all those small groups - not the albanians in macedonia, but small groups, kla or kla-like organisations - who are doing something in macedonia which is absolutely unnecessary, because macedonia is a democracy - in contrast to the former yugoslavia, where i have a certain understanding that perhaps weapons were also used to defend against terror and oppression. but there is democracy in macedonia, there are democratic possibilities, and the european union in particular will also help the albanian minority, which is a large minority in macedonia, to develop. but we expect the albanian majority in kosovo, with all its sympathy for the legitimate demands of its brothers and sisters in macedonia, to draw a clear line of demarcation between terrorism and the other. thirdly, i believe that, as far as economic issues are concerned, it is important that kosovo itself develops its own economic resources over time. i would also like to mention the mines in trebca. i know that today's mines are not necessarily what a modern economy develops, but i believe that all the possibilities must be found - even if the ownership is not definitively settled - to develop our own resources. i am very glad that commissioner solbes mira is here and i would like to ask him a specific question. the problem is the changeover to the euro. what happens to the de facto currency in kosovo and in some other areas of the balkans, but in particular in kosovo with the dm? i have just read in a recent report that this will cause great difficulties, and i would like to ask you, commissioner: has the commission dealt with this? what statements are there? will the commission take up this matter, and if so, when, so that this crucial question for the development of kosovo can also be resolved to some extent?
mr president, in order to achieve the widest possible consensus and support, i would suggest that we make an oral amendment which replaces amendments nos 2, 3 and 4 and introduces a new paragraph 5a which would read as follows - i hope you will forgive my poor french, i did not know that there was a french-speaking president present -:
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the majority of those involved in the art trade also wish to have a common right of succession. for years, politicians have tried to negotiate a compromise acceptable to all. the council has not really sought harmonization, it has rather built a framework with some clever back doors. the council has admittedly not been very flexible and has not responded very much to the european parliament's proposals, but at least it is an acceptable compromise! i cannot speak for the commission, but there are indications that the commission was not happy with all the council's proposals, and especially not with the transitional periods. but the commission too has played its part in this game, which was less a game of debate and more a game of veto, in order to make this right of follow-up possible. now we have this document, a document that i say, we should say yes with regret, but we should say yes because it is a victory in the end. we have this paper that needs to be improved, but because we have it now, we can also improve it. opponents should be a little more careful with their criticism, because they throw all those who are critical into a pot. there are those who reject the right of succession in principle, and there are those who want to make some very serious criticisms which may be of vital importance to them or to certain actors, for example the smallest art galleries, which are the ones who are actually creating the pool of talent in the first place. you're taking the big risk. they have a lot of problems with the tax differences, with the administration, with the insurance contracts. they are hardly allowed to commission works from visual artists, but usually have to buy them. if these small galleries have to buy and cannot sell after three years - as provided for in this proposal - and if they have to sell below the purchase price after three years, they bear a risk and a double loss, namely in the price and then in the right of sequence. nevertheless, my group will support this proposal. there is still a lot to be done in the area of the law of succession and the environmental aspects of it. in conclusion, i would like to make one more point, which i cannot erase, but i would like to tone it down a little: the so-called market migration is also only an argument of a certain lobby, because there is supply and demand, and there are certain things that are sought in europe and have always been sought in europe and not in the united states, and vice versa. the important thing is that this european decision, which we hope will be adopted by a majority tomorrow, will exert enormous pressure in favour of the representatives who are fighting for this right of observation in switzerland and also in the usa. they're waiting for our yes, and i hope they get it tomorrow.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. my group - and i say this because mr graça moura cannot be here at the moment - will undoubtedly agree with the majority of the conciliation committee's conclusions. nevertheless, there are a number of members of my group, and also in my own country, austria, which at present has no right of reply and has not seen the need to introduce one, who still have reservations. i also promised my french colleague mrs fourtou that i would reiterate some of these concerns today, although i am a firm believer in fair competition in the internal market and i am always in favour of european rules where they see the internal market and our common integration policy as the right one. on 13 december last year i therefore informed the house of the concerns of the artists' platform against copyright and the arts senate, as well as those of the gallery owners, especially young artists, and the auction houses from my country and from our group. i said at the time that the present basis for the decision was unsatisfactory. i do not think that the commission has been able to do so. the rapporteur should also be congratulated on this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the deadline for transposing the directive is four years. member states which do not apply the right of succession at the time of the entry into force of this directive are not obliged to apply the right of succession to the benefit of the legal successor of the author until 1 january 2010 at the latest after the death of the author. in addition, a further deadline is mentioned. this formulation shows how sensitive the issue is and how different compromises had to be made. i would also like to say that the aim of introducing a right of succession is to give artists in the field of visual arts a share in the subsequent commercial success of their works. we must ask ourselves: has this goal been achieved? here, according to scientific research and the results of the mediation committee, many people believe that the result is a redistribution of young, often poorer artists to older, successful artists and, above all, their heirs. in a study i have before me, the concerns which i must point out, because they are not all euphoric today, are very well summed up in five points. firstly, since the art and auction trade can only bear a very small part of the royalty levy and a full rollover to the buyers of artworks is not possible - i say thank god - the royalty could lead to a reduction in the purchase prices of works by young artists. second problem: for the artists who succeed later - and these can only be a few of the total - the right of succession could mean a forced redistribution in later life. thirdly, this is not desirable, because as a young artist it limits your possibilities of consumption. fourthly, the levy could change the competitive situation in the art trade. if it does, there could be a risk of emigration. fifth point: the initial sale takes into account that, in the case of a resale, the right-of-return tax is passed on to the artist, which could have an impact on the pricing. these concerns are shared by many in my country and in the group. that doesn't diminish the result, but i ask you to understand that not everyone is laughing today.
- mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank you, as a member of the committee on research and external trade, for including the competitiveness of the european aviation industry in your negotiations. the sabena disaster in particular shows us that thousands of jobs can be affected in a very short time. finally, the cost situation of airlines is also a decisive factor in ticket prices. the price of tickets is very important for social reasons - but not only for social reasons. the crucial problem in the production of noise is congestion. when we fly from brussels, we often see five, ten or fifteen airmen standing in a row on the runway waiting for the take-off clearance. i believe that tackling congestion in transport in general, but in aviation in particular, must be a priority and that we must look at more efficient systems so that congestion can be reduced accordingly. but the training and development of personnel, not just in the tower and in the planes, is also crucial. if we consider specific training, particularly in terms of noise and the environment, we could achieve a great deal in this area. it is also about infrastructure. we all know the problems with eurocontrol and the difficulties in the efficient allocation of airspace between civil and military aircraft are well known. i think the commission should exert much more pressure so that we can come up with solutions more quickly to tackle congestion while at the same time ensuring greater safety and comfort for passengers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is where we need new approaches in the sixth research framework programme. we know that congestion will be one of the main issues in the coming years. i believe we need smart solutions that help us to ensure the mobility of the population and at the same time to manage the problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already done so. sweden held the presidency of the union for the first time. this is no easy task. as an austrian, i know that. the targets were ambitious. the presidency has focused on a number of priorities under the motto 'less is more'. the european union has made important progress, particularly in the enlargement process. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. i would like to congratulate you on this success. i do not agree with the newspaper commentators on one point. i think it is not serious to sell the establishment of concrete dates for accession as a great success. there are many open questions that remain unresolved. the irish referendum has left the ratification process of the treaty of nice uncertain. the question of whether nice is a conditio sine qua non for enlargement was discussed. but the irish people have sent a clear signal that the debate on the future of the union must no longer be conducted behind closed doors, over the heads of the citizens, but directly with the people. one of the objectives of the gothenburg summit was to develop a strategy for sustainable development. the council's commitment to move transport to rail and to promote the full internalisation of external costs is an important clarification. the community will soon have the opportunity to put these words into action. the forthcoming negotiations in the context of the expiry of the transit agreement with austria would be a good opportunity to do so.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is important and i want to make it public that i advised my group to support the zimmerling report on the right of establishment as it has been presented to us, despite the concerns of my home country, austria, and of other countries, which are understandable and understandable. but i am convinced that we can develop the right of reproduction in europe into an even better paper, that it is necessary for the visual artists in europe, that it is also a sign of the culture and the cultural values that we stand for in this united europe, that we are also sending a signal to the art market, especially in switzerland and the usa. we have a few years to make the necessary improvements, and i think that by joining forces we will be able to weaken some of the arguments or perhaps even eliminate them altogether and work together to ensure legal certainty for the visual artists. i believe strongly in this and i will continue to work for it, not just in this parliamentary term. i am curious to hear from the dean and expert on voting, mr fatuzzo, and what he has to say about this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the objective of the directive on the right of establishment should be to harmonise the common market. this objective was achieved, but with doubtful success. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the matter. the introduction of a new common tax is counterproductive, especially in times of simplification and the need for transparency. it makes trade difficult, indeed one might say it brings it to a standstill, because it is only a matter of time before the art market moves away from europe to the united states or switzerland. in fact, there will be an imbalance in the art market with all the negative consequences. the small galleries and the young artists they support are particularly affected by the new obolus. even established artists, for whom this directive would be a monetary advantage, have spoken out against it. it is absolutely incomprehensible that this directive should impose on those concerned something they do not want. the european parliament has already said yes to this directive and has served europe as a patron of the arts. that's why we voted against it, the liberals.
in writing. - (de) the attitude of austrian artists towards the introduction of a right of succession is one of refusal. the right of succession represents a great economic disadvantage for them, because it will inevitably lead to a fall in the first sale price. the introduction of the resale right will lead to the exile of the european art market to countries such as the united states or switzerland, since there is no such right and the prices of successive resales of artworks are therefore not pushed up. it is mainly the owners of small galleries who are affected, as they will be much less able to withstand this pressure on prices. we don't see why the right of sequence should be imposed as a form of copyright on artists, against their will. for these reasons, the representatives of the freedom party reject the report.
mr president, mr duisenberg, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i should like to begin by thanking mr maat for his report and for including in his report the previous reports, including mine, and for renewing those points which have not yet been fully implemented because they have lost none of their importance. thank you very much. secondly, there is a lot of juggling with numbers. they're all relative. i will mention only one from my own country, where yesterday it was found that 63% think it is right that austria has been part of the economic and monetary union from the beginning, and that 43% think the euro is an advantage and 24% have a neutral attitude, which means that 67% are in favour. but that means we have a lot of work to do. i would like to clarify a few points for the public as well. the euro is not coming, as some posters say, it is already here and it is a success. each country has benefited, price stability has increased, europe's economic independence has been strengthened, exports and tourism have been sustainably promoted by eliminating exchange rate fluctuations, and the reduction of government and budget deficits has been initiated. i call on all member state governments to inform parliaments and the public about the benefits of the euro in the euro area and not to give the impression that something new and unknown is coming. the next point that is important to me is that the euro is a political project, and, excuse me, mr president duisenberg, it is not just the ecb - that speaks for you, you are doing your job well on this issue - and it is not just the banks, but also not the finance ministers. it is a political project and not just a financial product, and i therefore call for greater involvement of education policy, smes and consumers in information policy.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has been very active in this field. the present commission proposal and the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs - and i say this with pride - are, i believe, a very good example of the successful, open-minded, compromise-oriented work of all the groups and experts in this house on a commission proposal. it is also a good example of how seriously we take our work and how we implement our plans, namely also respecting the timetables, and how strong we are in the preparation of decisions, unlike the council. the difference in the treatment of commission proposals and decisions between the european parliament and the council is very clear in this example. i would therefore like to begin by thanking all the coordinators, and in particular mr kuckelkorn, mr hume, mr ettl, mr pronk, mr lulling and many others for their cooperation. why this directive? the directive exists because we are all committed to creating a single financial market, because we need to remove the financial obstacles in the financial services action plan - which this directive is part of - quickly, because we do not have community legislation in the second pillar for the activities under the second pillar, retirement provision. what is the directive about? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have received many suggestions from the committee for improvements. we are convinced that this has been discussed and brought forward at a wide level in relation to the commission's proposal. but first, we must clarify a point, which we wish to make clear by changing the title. this is the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the activities and supervision of institutions providing occupational retirement provision services. it's a financial services directive. it is not a directive which regulates occupational retirement provision as a product and also the mobility of workers with all its consequences. it regulates the activities of tendering companies. this clarification is necessary. in the light of this clarification, we must say that it is a necessary and important first step towards a european regulation for the second pillar and occupational retirement provision. the second pillar is complementary to the first, but it does not replace it. she's not a middleman. it is de facto a social partnership agreement between employers and employees within the framework of the legal provisions. it must therefore strike a balance between financial market liberalisation and social security; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. let me list the major steps to change: firstly, we have emphasized very strongly the principle of a level playing field, i.e. equal access for all providers if they meet the conditions. secondly, we have clearly defined the prudent person principle, we have set a limit for the transition from quantitative investment rules to qualitative ones and we are asking for a report from the commission after three years; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given more flexibility in its decision-making, while ensuring consumer safety. thirdly, we have called for the principle of downstream taxation to be adopted because we need some common rules to prevent distortions of competition and we ask the commission to clearly monitor and make the prohibition of discrimination laid down in the treaty the starting point. we defined the work of the pension forum, we defined biometric risk as an option. it is not the product that is defined, but the commitment to offer. finally, we have clarified the question of the principle of the country of origin and the information of workers, employers and their representatives. we believe that we have succeeded in balancing the financial services directive with social security and that we will achieve a large majority tomorrow. i hope the council will follow us so that we are not blocked from implementing this directive on the basis of the decisions of the european parliament!
mr president, our public pension systems are too expensive and no longer financially viable. the gap between the active and retired population is widening. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the cost of these schemes also varies widely across the union. for example, austria spends 15% of its gdp on pensions, a record figure, as the union average is 11%. the high cost in austria, for example, is partly due to the fact that we soon introduced a separate insurance system for each occupational group. this leads to a series of injustices which are no longer acceptable. but as i said, not only in austria, but all over europe, there is a crisis in pension insurance. the public pension system is no longer financially viable and is also at the expense of the younger generation. a pan-european market for occupational pensions is essential to remedy this. but we must not place an additional burden on our small and mediumsized enterprises in the setting up of this system, this second pillar. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed. the consequences would be catastrophic and would have a particularly negative impact on the european employment situation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the young are particularly affected by pensions, because they are the ones who earn them and then receive them. do you really intend to inform, especially in schools, about what the pension systems of the future will look like and that mobility will of course also be encouraged if these ideas are actually implemented?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all know that it takes a long time to get from an invention to a marketable product in medical technology, usually 10 to 12 years. then the product has to be brought to market, and finally it has to be able to be manufactured by third parties after 20 years. the question is therefore whether, instead of invoking the right to patents and compulsory licences, we should instead provide a development aid fund for these issues and make an international effort to provide a large sum of money so that, with a large purchase, the medicines can be made available at a correspondingly low price. the sale price is, after all, made up of manufacturing and licensing fees. with large quantities to be purchased, the firms would be in a position to offer at low cost. i would like to ask the commission whether it could not take an initiative.
mr president, i am very pleased to hear commissioner lamy say that the next wto negotiations will certainly have to take account of production and labelling procedures. my question to you, commissioner, is whether you are prepared to really go along with this, so that imports from third countries are also subject to the criteria which we consider at european level to be our production base, whether in agriculture or elsewhere. are you prepared to take these steps against resistance for the sake of public health, which is what it's all about, in the wto round?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, mr rapporteur, i would like to thank you very much for your work, for turning almost nothing into something. in politics, we sometimes have to deal with a bunch of crooks. it's not new. in consumer protection, so-called fraudulent packaging is used when it does not contain what is written on it. the council has recently been particularly fond of playing the role of counterfeiter, sometimes in agreement with the commission. to avoid using the harsh word forger, i will say counterfeiter. we are also dealing with the product evaluation of the occupational pension scheme or the second pillar of the pension scheme. the aim is to inform the public that it is a supplementary pension scheme without meeting the necessary quality criteria, which in the view of the committee on employment and social affairs should include pension-related requirements such as the guaranteed payment of pension benefits until the end of the insured person's life, the payment of benefits to surviving relatives or the coverage of risks in the event of disability. in addition to these quality requirements, financial risk, but also collective agreement between the social partners and thus the participation of the insured are not insignificant at the moment. in this context, an additional factor which continues to hamper the free movement of workers, and above all their mobility, is the somewhat uncoordinated tax policy in the european union. in the case of occupational pension schemes in particular, workers who take advantage of the free movement of persons within the eu and live the european idea by moving to another member state may also be losers through different taxation, sometimes double taxation. unfortunately, essential features that constitute a comprehensive second pillar in the pension system have been hardly taken into account. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social security system is not a system of 'second pillar' pensions, but a system of 'second pillar' pensions. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. all pension schemes are designed to give priority to benefit and quality for the end user, whether they are traditional state or levy schemes or supplementary or supplementary pension schemes which are run through the capital market. the council seems to have forgotten this in this context, although it must be admitted that the increase in capital generated by this product is, of course, something useful in general. the fact that some of the quality of the report has been improved is certainly due to the rapporteur's very careful approach to all the main issues. but we should be clear about one thing: public pension systems must be complemented by good company pension systems or private pension funds and schemes, otherwise we could lose social symmetry with increasing life expectancy. our imagination should be sufficient to grasp what this might mean. i would therefore ask the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. the commission has presented two proposals for directives to amend the provisions governing life and non-life insurance undertakings. i should like to comment on both proposals at the same time, since they have many similarities. these two proposals, which form part of the action plan for financial services adopted in lisbon and to be implemented by 2005, strengthen and improve the existing rules on non-life insurance adopted in 1973 and on life insurance adopted in 1979. the solvency margin is an additional capital reserve which insurance companies must create as a buffer against unforeseen events. the general aim of the proposals is to achieve better protection of insurance undertakings through higher equity capital of insurance companies and more efficient state supervision of insurance companies. higher solvency margins or risk cushions not only increase confidence in the ability of insurance companies to perform, but also reduce systemic risks in financial markets in general. efficient insurance undertakings play an important role in perfecting and exploiting the potential opportunities of the internal market. the directives provide a basic framework of mandatory conditions and controls and leave room for national legislators to lay down rules beyond this level of regulation. this is absolutely in line with the principle of subsidiarity and, given the considerable cultural differences in the supervisory laws of the member states, it is also understandable and positive from the consumer's point of view. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. this preventive surveillance is also contained in basel ii. this document was proposed by the bank's basel committee on international settlement for banking supervision. the commission proposal on small mutual insurance groups is approved. although the limit for exemption from these directives has been raised from an annual contribution of eur 500 000 to eur 5 million over the last three years, it is ensured that these schemes do not drive insurance companies out of the market. these mutual societies are often local or regional in nature and may remain so. however, if these insurance companies also want a pan-european concession to operate internationally, a simple notification to the national supervisory authority that they voluntarily submit to the provisions of the solvency directive is sufficient. this is an absolute guarantee of the survival of the associations, and it is up to each association to expand its business or not. the two draft directives are interim measures, mainly technical amendments. the commission will, in a further package of measures 'solvency ii', seek to overhaul the whole of the regulation of this sector in the longer term. i'm sure it'll be hot in there. under these conditions, the present solvency i subsection should therefore be adopted, which is in the interest of the public and of insurance undertakings in particular. the sooner we can put these interim measures into effect, the better. i have therefore tried here as rapporteur to clarify informally the positions of the council and the commission in advance, in the context of the fast track procedure, and to work towards a compromise between the council, the commission and parliament. the reports now before us are therefore already in line with the common position and it would thus be possible to conclude both directives at first reading. i hope that will be possible, depending on your tenacity or your ability to object, commissioner! let me make one final comment on the procedure itself. this is particularly true of fast-track co-decision procedures. this procedure requires flexibility, and this flexibility, and i am not saying this for the first time, was almost non-existent, especially at council level. co-decision means more than just one side having to be flexible. the council has not yet been able to reach a decision on the matter, and the commission has not yet been able to reach a decision on the matter. such an attitude towards the issue of codecision in this sector will only harm the deepening of the european union or integration. we must also think about the functioning of our decision-making processes, or the reflection should be a follow-up to the irish referendum. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a reply to the question.
mr president, this directive is a major step towards the kyoto target and a milestone on the road to a sustainable energy economy and energy policy in the european union. the rapporteur deserves our thanks and congratulations. but with the prospect of resource scarcity, the rising price of oil and gas, and the risk of nuclear power, there is no reason to sit back and gloat. we must make it clear to the member states of the european union that there are economic and social advantages to achieving the objectives set. of course i would have preferred to have binding targets, but we must now do even more persuasive work to give renewable energy a chance on the market, namely a voluntary one. another long-term goal is to have all forms of energy labelled, because the energy consumer has the right to know from which primary energy source his electricity comes.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would also like to join the ranks of those who congratulate mrs rothe on her inclusion of the binding objectives, because the probability of reaching these binding objectives is very high. i believe that it is also necessary to ensure that the cost is shared efficiently and fairly within the european union, so that the promotion of renewable energy is also comparable and follows the same standards. i would ask the commission to do a lot of best practice and benchmarking because it is very important for member states, and especially for new entrants, to know where the best and worst values are. i also believe that small and safe cycles are important for the future of europe and for security of supply, and as we have seen with water cycles, they are actually the best and cleanest way of producing energy. i think that this will open up a lot of new possibilities. if the transmission system operators now ensure that there is no discrimination and that renewable energy is given priority, we can be very satisfied. this directive is of course an intermediate step, but i believe it is a proper intermediate step. i hope that the commission will soon present a general certification model with which we can then continue to work. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the directive is implemented in a way that is consistent with the principles of the treaty.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too join in congratulating the rapporteur. i would like to make a few comments, however. the fact that no binding targets have been reached has been a matter of concern to us all, but we can also take a cue from the various un conventions. i think of rio, where i was able to follow in detail, as a correspondent myself, that something big can grow from something small. the commission's double-mindedness gives us the opportunity to take the initiative and then propose binding objectives. i would like to ask the commissioner present here to do so as a precaution. the successful systems can also be used as a model. spain, germany and austria already have the facilities and the ways to deal with renewable energies that others can take over. the aim is not to make the world heal from the german nature, but simply to save unnecessary additional expenditure, which then leads to excuses that the objectives could not have been achieved. the rapporteur's suggestion that proofs of origin will ensure transparency is in line with my ceterum censeo, which is that the european institutions must be fully transparent for the benefit of all citizens.
mr president, after a rather technical introduction, we should not lose sight of what is at stake. it is often rightly said that europe has no face. if you want to give yourself an address as a publicist and entrepreneur, it's dot.at, dot.dot.com, dot.dot.net, dot.org. now we get a face, we get an address. it is worth something if we put it together and if the commission finds the appropriate way. we become dot.eu. the fact that we are so late has a lot to do with the fact that we have not yet managed to grow together into the unity that we pretend to have already grown together. this europe is gradually developing from the single market, perhaps in a hopeful way, into identity through politics. we know there's a lot going wrong. i think it is a step forward that there is a certain marking associated with dot.eu. i am counting on the commission and all those responsible to ensure that there will be no sloppiness when we get this main domain, that there can be incidents such as those mentioned by the previous speakers. the keyword is "amsterdam dot.nl". i would also like, however, in the course of enlargement and also of the re-regionalisation of europe, that the regions also have the chance to find appropriate additions or priorities. i would not agree with the present report on this point. however, i welcome the rapporteur's reference to the principle of transparency in amendment no 15, which brings me to my ceterum censeo, that the eu institutions must be fully transparent for the benefit of their citizens.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. europe is number one in the world in terms of gross domestic product and i think it is good that we continue to make a little more effort in marketing for europe in the future. i welcome the fact that we want to become the most competitive area in the world, and i believe we still have to work hard to achieve this. the competitors in this world are not sleeping, but they are running good initiatives, so it is important for us to act as efficiently and quickly as possible in this area. we have 18 million businesses in europe, and i think it is a very important marketing advantage for these businesses to be identifiable in a uniform way, immediately and without any problems, all over the world. consumer confidence is the essential basis for business, and therefore the presence of the european union in the global networks with a top label domain is of particular importance. i believe that there is also a need for efficient dispute settlement, which should be as cost-effective as possible, but which should also be neutral and non-discriminatory. speculation or the abusive registration of names should be tackled as quickly and efficiently as possible, because this is a very important basis for the partners involved and can prompt them to act efficiently. the fact that the register is being advertised is also very important because it also ensures optimum supply in the european area, and i wish the commission and in particular mrs flesch all the best. i believe that you have taken an important step in this european union.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. what we need are uniform procedures for allocating frequencies. the aim should be to achieve the greatest possible economic benefit. umts has shown us that there is a need for action. if the allocation of radio spectrum does indeed create a kind of virtual property, would it not make sense to allow licensing in this area, so that new revenues are also possible for the ministers of finance and that equity creation for companies creates a mutual benefit? i think that we should have the courage to think up new theories and to put them into practice. i get a lot of complaints from cb radio operators. mr. slide-out writes to me regularly. the point is quite simply that the use of equipment in europe has not yet found a single market and that we should find approaches in this hardware sector to ensure the single market. article 7 deals with the publication of information. i would like to ask the commissioner what form this information should take in the future. i would like to see the principles of the powers of investigation of the regulatory authorities clarified in future, in accordance with the principles of proportionality and commercial secrecy. i believe that these principles are particularly important for the future and i would be delighted if we could also congratulate mrs niebler on this important report tomorrow, because she has done a really excellent job here.
- mr president, i have to go. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the programme presented today indicates that. i am particularly pleased that the topics relating to the future of europe are given high priority in this programme. i would like to make two comments in this connection. firstly, i think that it is impossible to simply ignore the irish vote and go on to the agenda without damaging the european idea. secondly, i am convinced that the postponement of the intergovernmental conference to 2003 proposed by the european parliament would be seen as an escape from the citizen's vote. the consequence would be another drop in voter turnout. i therefore expressly welcome the fact that the priority report will stick to 2004 - hopefully after the elections. and just to remind you: the belgian presidency in particular should not be surprised to find that, in the context of its ambitious efforts, the austrian citizens have become a little hard of hearing as a result of the sound of sanctions.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! our group will not change its position. the constitution and also the real social conditions in macedonia/fyrom must be adapted to the needs of a modern multiethnic state. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. in the case of macedonia, a democratic state, violence is not necessary, it is unacceptable, it is even harmful, and above all it is harmful to the reputation of the albanian people themselves, whose rights we defend with full conviction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. mr president of the council, this parliament has the right to get answers to some questions. firstly, how could françois léotard be appointed as a representative of the eu who contradicts these principles in his first statements and puts the terrorists on the same level as the government? mr léotard was not informed of the council's common position? secondly, the kla in kosovo has allegedly been disarmed. where did the guns come from? it's not just some kalashnikovs you can buy at the market. in the world, america is, or american circles are interested in arms shipments. thirdly, the terrorists were able to leave macedonia with their weapons. shouldn't we be looking at where these weapons came from? fourthly, how is the planned disarmament to work if the weapons have already been withdrawn from macedonia? is it to be as successful as in kosovo? these are some of the questions, and i must critically note that there is a certain naivety in the way that we are consciously or unconsciously approaching the reality, which is the reality of a small extremist group apparently financed by the albanian diaspora, which was not prepared to finance the university of tetovo, but financed the weapons, in conjunction with some criminal organizations. it is in the best interests of the albanian people and their representatives that these small extremist groups should no longer be able to carry out their trade. the council and the commission must do their part. we are absolutely opposed to violent changes in the states and violent changes in the borders. it is the elected representatives of the governments and the parliament, of the albanian and slavic-macedonian sides, who need our support, our advice, our suggestions. but we must clearly and unequivocally reject the violent groups. if the commissioner meant that we don't want to spend money on weapons, then that's right. but we certainly do not want to spend money on weapons that extremist groups use to throw democracies into turmoil. (applause from the centre)
i understand that because of time, the president-in-office is not answering. for many groups there was serious concern about armaments in the balkans and the non-disarmament there. i hope that, even if the president-in-office of the council cannot answer now, he will take the concerns of all the groups very seriously and bring them before the council of ministers. this is a permanent and not just a local problem.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. thanks for the word count. first of all, i would say that amendment no 118 does not replace amendment no 46 but that both must be voted on. secondly, i would like to table an oral amendment to amendment no 118, if it is approved. if the amendment were to be accepted, i could support amendment no 118. it is as follows: the following paragraph is inserted after the word 'legal personality' in the introductory phrase: if this oral amendment is accepted - it has been agreed with the applicant - then i could vote in favour of the approval.
- madam president! - what is it? we have voted today, at second reading, on the promotion of electricity from renewable sources in the internal electricity market. the commission's white paper has set us a target of 12% of energy consumption to be covered by renewable energy by 2010. to achieve this, we must promote renewable energy generation through various incentives, because we are not close to that target. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i would like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of renewable energy for rural areas. the production of energy, the cultivation of energy crops, offers an alternative source of income for our farmers in europe, which must be exploited. the multifunctionality of rural areas can be enhanced and exploited more. i see in this the great opportunity for agriculture and a healthy rural area in our common europe.
- mr president, commissioners, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by congratulating mr cornillet, the rapporteur, because his report represents progress, progress in terms of structure, because it gives us the opportunity to review annually the extent to which we are actually fulfilling the requirements of the charter of fundamental rights in the european union. but progress has been slowed down, as it has been every year, by various votes and amendments, where once again attempts have been made to include political ideologies in this report which would not have lost anything in the report, political ideologies which perhaps cannot be implemented at home and which also violate the principle of subsidiarity. you don't belong in this. i am against all discrimination and i would like to illustrate this with a few examples: i am against any discrimination against homosexuality, but i am against the attempts of a political nature, which have been repeated in the report, to present homosexual marriage as the absolute norm and to demand equal rights for it as for the marriage between partners of different sexes, which is still quite normal today. that marriage between persons of different sexes, which is the germ cell of society, is the norm, that is also good, dear comrades, one would say in berlin today. i am also against attempts to give all non-eu citizens the same voting rights, whether active or passive, as eu citizens. this would be unique in the world and would also be discriminatory towards union citizens. i am against attempts to make family reunification the only means of immigration by extending the concept of family to a large and unmanageable group. this is unacceptable because it deprives the member states of the right to decide which workers they want to take in and how many they can take in. i'm not sure about the whole family. the examples i have given and other political demands will not be supported by us, but the report by the honourable rapporteur, mr cornillet, will be.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am happy to support mr brok's request for approval of financial aid to yugoslavia, and i also consider it absolutely necessary, in view of the high level of indebtedness of that country, that an above-average level of lost subsidies be given here, above-average to the usual practice. i fully support the commission in this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that has always been the position of this house and of our group. the extradition of milosevic has certainly achieved something, and there is nothing to interpret. this is a positive development. even positive developments can sometimes have a bitter aftertaste. firstly, it was all too clear that milosevic was exchanged for money from the donor conference, not so much for direct aid from the european union. it was not a good picture, there are two parties responsible who demanded it, but also the government in belgrade, which was too hesitant at first. the second interesting thing is that the particular pressure has come from the americans, the americans who still refuse to accept that international courts have jurisdiction even over their own citizens. it is interesting, and the european union should urge the americans to finally recognize the international courts and their jurisdiction over american citizens. thirdly, the debate on the history of the community is not over. there are many, for example, those responsible for the destruction of vukovar, who are still at large. this debate must continue in yugoslavia. fourthly, the hard-won balance in yugoslavia could be put to a severe test or even destroyed. i would like to make a comment on the future of this country. we have all seen many times in the past months and years that there was a mood against yugoslavia as such, but yugoslavia has an important role to play in the construction of the region, and thank god there are again responsible and sensible leaders in this country who can also put this country on the right track. but we must also be patient in helping yugoslavia to fulfil its responsibilities in the region. it is a question of linking three points which are essential to me and my group. firstly, the continuation of the internal debate on what has happened in yugoslavia in recent decades. second, reconciliation with the neighbours. this is where some extradition of war criminals would help. thirdly, and this is my last point, certainly the economic development we must promote. if we succeed in combining these three elements, then in five to ten years we can also look back on a successful history of eu policy in yugoslavia.
- mr president, madam commissioner, i should first like to thank the rapporteur very warmly for his report and congratulate him on it. he had a very delicate subject to discuss. in any case, my group will be very happy to support this report. but, mr sjöstedt, just because we will of course agree with your report, allow me to express a certain unease which has been brought to my attention by those concerned. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the two known mining pond disasters have put the whole of mining and the existing regulations in a light that does not correspond to reality. i was told that recital a, mining gaps have shown the inadequacy of the regulations and monitoring requirements applicable to mining in the current and future eu states. that is not the correct way of putting it. it is true that there are various strict requirements within the eu and, of course, in the candidate countries. the problem is not with the laws but with the implementation of these laws in certain countries, for example in romania. recital d: inadequate management of mining activities and the disposal of mining waste is a global problem. this statement - which is what the people who feel offended here think - is also wrong, because most smes are not global. many large companies operating worldwide, on the contrary, are more likely to be pioneers in strict safety and environmental standards. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the pollution of the sea. but there are also things which are expressly welcomed, for example, paragraph 8, last sentence: 'parliament further considers that the landfill directive does not constitute an appropriate framework for the legal regulation of mining waste and urges the commission to submit a proposal for a separate directive on mining waste.' this is something that can only be fully welcomed and underlined. the european mining industry is, i believe, very much aware of its responsibility and is therefore calling for its own directive on mining waste. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a safe manner. the fact that the landfill directive is not applicable because of the specific nature of the mining sector and would not lead to any improvement in the ecological and economic situation of the mining companies is, i think, well known to all of us. i have taken the liberty, mr rapporteur, of introducing an amendment to paragraph 9. the aim is to extend the seveso 2 directive to cover hazards arising from storage and processing activities in metal mining. i hope you can accept this amendment and i congratulate you again on your report. (applause from the centre)
- madam president! - what is it? i saw some boats landing at parliament this week and i've notified the security services. there were difficulties in communicating, but the telephone lines were so bad that communication was almost impossible. i would ask that the number of the security service, which can be reached at home, be clearly and clearly marked, so that if you want to report an incident, it can also be done quickly and efficiently.
- madam president! - what is it? i would like to say that i am not in favour of the motion, but i would like to make a brief comment: i am fighting for the respect of the major groups. the first vice-president is responsible for representing the chairman of a committee, not a member of his group. i would ask mr corbett to show this minimum respect for the office of vice-president of the committee on constitutional affairs in future! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, mr menrad and mr mayer, and in particular mr gasòliba, mr rothley and mr lehne, who have added special aspects. i am glad that the mayer and menrad reports are being discussed together, because it also shows that we are trying to live in a social market economy and not to play social policy against economic policy, but to put a sign of commonality and to see them as complementary and common factors. what are the conditions under which this european joint stock company is established? globalization has made us aware of the limitlessness of the world. the single market is, i hope, about to be achieved, enlargement is uniting the continent, and economic and monetary union with the euro as the visible expression of a growing europe, as a sign of a growing european identity, as a sign of the will to become a strong european union on the world market, is getting paper money. we agree on the objectives. but the implementation is often halfhearted. keyword legal basis, keyword lack of european taxation, keyword need for discussion on the modernisation of european merger rules. many homework assignments are not being done in the member states with the necessary speed and determination. the powers - the keyword is unanimity - correspond to the realities of power politics, but not to the needs of european politics. i therefore ask the ecofin council to concentrate more on the community's fiscal base, on the necessary fiscal arrangements, and less on proposals which undermine the stability pact and weaken the euro.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. we europeans have only a chance as mediators if we are not only neutral towards both sides but also show the necessary respect for the needs and expectations of all parties to the conflict. the german foreign minister fischer has perhaps shown us here what european mediation could look like, in contrast to the embarrassing comparisons made by the finnish foreign minister between the crimes of the national socialists and israel and the aggressive attacks on israel by the belgian foreign minister. it was also a shock to me to see shops in brussels with signs saying 'we do not carry israeli goods'. perhaps european politicians will one day realize that no one is interested in their personal interpretations of the conflict. our task is to help to calm the conflict, and this will only be possible if the need for independence and freedom of the palestinian people is recognized, but also the need for security of israel and, above all, israel as a democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission's report on the progress of the czech republic states, and i quote: the czech republic continues to meet the political criteria of copenhagen. this statement is remarkable. the commission report does not mention the benes decrees. the commission overlooks the fact that the maintenance of the bénes decrees, which justify the expulsion and murder of tens of thousands of people after the second world war, is in clear contradiction with the accession criteria set by the community. the czech republic's refusal to abolish the eu's own constitution is a disregard for the fundamental values and human rights to which the eu is explicitly committed. the european union is thus sending a signal that is damaging the eu's credibility in terms of fundamental and human rights. as the austrian representative, i would like to say a few words about temelin. temelin has significant safety deficiencies. the commission's safety report on temelin also confirms that austria's concerns about the reactor are justified. the czech republic has not yet implemented the measures it has taken to ensure the safety of the nuclear reactor. this attitude has nothing to do with a partnership. the lever to solve this problem is in brussels. i expect a european decommissioning initiative. commissioner verheugen, you said that temelin was the safest nuclear power station in europe. this is not only unhelpful, but counterproductive in finding a common exit.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say, without being a defender of the commission, that i have also spoken to vice-president kinnock today and the reports are on their way. there was only one technical problem, so no double-talk, just one technical problem.
the rapporteur. i am glad to say that the commission has taken the initiative in this respect. there is no doubt that the european parliament is supporting and evaluating positively and constructively the accession process of malta, this small mediterranean island at the crossroads between the european union and africa. the report is based on the copenhagen criteria, which apply equally to all the applicant countries, and on the specific features of malta, which are due to its insularity and its economic and social structure. the basic political situation in malta has not changed. malta continues to meet the political criteria of copenhagen. its institutions are democratic and function smoothly. there are no particular problems with regard to human rights. the overall situation of economic, social and cultural rights is satisfactory. in the economic field, malta has a functioning market economy and is able to withstand eu competition in the medium term, provided it carries out the structural reforms still to be implemented. malta is on track in this area, both in terms of reducing import duties on finished products by 2003 and in terms of eliminating existing capital controls by the end of 2002. the broad privatisation programme adopted in 1999, including major utilities over the next five years, is also pointing in the right direction. the reduction of the budget deficit from 11.8% of gdp in 1998 to 5% of gdp this year is a positive and significant result, as is the positive development of the economic data. the inflation rate was 2.4% in november 2000, despite the oil price developments, and the unemployment rate fell to 5.3% of the working population, after a slight increase in 1999. however, it must be borne in mind that this positive process must be consolidated by further reductions in structural expenditure. malta's positive development on the path to the eu is also reflected in the state of accession negotiations. with 17 chapters, malta is at the top of the list of candidates who were only able to start negotiations in 2000. this shows that malta has made up for the lost time of the 22 months' break in the negotiations and is therefore in a good position to be among the first round of new accession countries. the basic political situation in malta, namely the different assessment of eu accession by the government on the one hand and the opposition on the other, has not only remained unchanged, but the polarization between the government and the labour opposition has rather become even more acute. as rapporteur, i can only note this with regret. this does not mean, of course, that the european parliament ignores the position of the labour party, which wants to take a swiss approach to malta. however, all possibilities must be used to ensure the continuity of malta's accession process and thus to support a constructive dialogue with all constituent bodies and social strata in malta. the european parliament's particular concerns in relation to malta's accession process naturally include internal security and maritime security. as regards internal security, malta has now set the stage for an effective anti-corruption and anti-money laundering policy which will allow malta to accede to both the council of europe criminal law convention against corruption and to ratify the oecd convention on the fight against bribery of foreign officials in international business, thus addressing a short-term priority of the accession partnership. in the environmental field, too, we support malta's efforts to support the short-term priorities of the accession partnership on water and air pollution and the reduction of landfills, and therefore express our understanding of malta's policy on banning the use of plastic bottles. as rapporteur, i have also shown my understanding of malta's specific concerns regarding the free movement of persons and its fears about an influx of foreign workers into its labour market. the commission's concession on the free movement of persons takes account of this rather psychological fear. malta is not a transformation society. it has repeatedly stated that it wants to be treated like the other candidates for accession. the commission's efforts to open up financial channels to make up for this shortfall are to be welcomed. on the other hand, the maltese authorities must make appropriate preparations to enable the management of structural and regional aid to be decentralised. i just want to take a moment to address the council. the position of malta on the agricultural chapter should also, i hope, be on the table soon. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. five points from the point of view of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. firstly, we are all aware of the historical dimension and the political and moral responsibility of the reunification of europe. it must succeed and will succeed because it is right and it makes sense. secondly, the economic facts are developing positively. economic growth in central and eastern europe remains above the eu average. the macroeconomic situation has improved. eu exports to the candidate countries are increasing, and the candidate countries are already benefiting from the accession negotiation process because it also provides them with guidance for necessary reforms that would have to be carried out even without an eu perspective after 50 years of communist dictatorship. thirdly, the commissioner has cut it: the economic and monetary union, the euro, has not yet been achieved with accession. it is important to point out that once the copenhagen criteria have been met, the maastricht criteria will have to be met without an opt-out clause and this timeframe is likely to take at least another three, four, five or more years. fourthly, money and balance sheets are not everything. the economic data are positive, but they are only a means to an end and not an end in themselves. we have said it today in the middle east debate: means to an end, to create peace, to provide security, to guarantee social stability, to build a democratic community and to safeguard growth and employment. fifthly, there is much to be done: to meet the stability criteria, to control state aid, to eliminate regional disparities, to reform the pension, social and health systems, to speed up privatization and to guarantee the independence of the judiciary and the public administration. we have reached a milestone. we are optimistic about the future.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the enlargement of the european union is certainly the most fascinating and important project we have in mind. i agree with you on this. in this respect, i believe that the future is certain, as you said, the timing may not be entirely certain, but it will happen, and that is good, that is important. but this should not blind us to the fact that there are still some problems to be solved, and that enlargement as such naturally creates problems which we must deal with, which must not be a reason for postponing and cancelling things. one of these areas of concern is certainly the social question, which has already been mentioned by my predecessors, because with the candidate countries for enlargement the gap between rich and poor within the european union is also widening. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the regions of the union. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we have to find solutions here. i am very grateful to the commission and the council for having found a reasonable standard, which is flexible and can be applied as soon as possible, because the objective is integration. integration means living together, not just living side by side, but living together and growing together. this is an important task which we must carry out together, step by step. the second problem i want to touch on is the minority problem. we are all living on a continent of minorities. the protection of minorities is an important task which we have not yet fully fulfilled even in the existing union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i say this because i have also dealt specifically with hungary, especially since the legislation there may be in danger of creating certain privileges for hungarians beyond the hungarian border, in the neighbouring countries of slovakia and romania. i think you should be careful here; protection and solidarity with hungarian minorities yes, but no new discrimination. as regards discrimination, which is my last point, i would like to add that in a number of areas, and this is a great success of our joint work, laws that resulted in discrimination have been abolished, and for example discrimination on grounds of religion, gender, sexual behaviour has already been abolished, also in romania. the fact that this is still in the report, at least according to my information, is already outdated, because a law was passed that abolishes discrimination against homosexuals. so you can see how things are flowing and how our working together is already improving the situation in europe, even before enlargement. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the committee on constitutional affairs has confined itself in its opinion on the country reports to a few points which are of general importance to all the candidate countries and which are consequently included in the chapeau report of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. the committee calls for a more mature scheme for the future representation of the candidate countries in the european parliament than that provided for in the treaty of nice. we call for the correction of the unequal treatment of hungarians and czechs and we consider it necessary to provide for the candidates who will join after the 2004 european elections. the committee on constitutional affairs also has important concerns about the participation of the candidate countries in the so-called post-nice process as soon as possible. a european constitutional reform without the participation of future members is politically untenable. of course, there can be no full participation of the candidates while they are still candidates, but they will be affected and we should therefore value their opinion. the committee also calls for the active involvement of the civilian population in the member states and the candidate countries in the process of reforming our future institutions. the conditions for this will be good, comprehensive and, above all, not just one-sided information. the commission has already received another request. the commissioner verheugen has already raised the issue in the morning debate that the application of community law will be a priority in the ongoing assessment of the european maturity of the candidates. we can only agree with him here. i have mixed feelings about another statement made by commissioner verheugen this morning. commissioner, you have declared the border regions to be the spearhead of the eu enlargement process. in view of the commission's great reluctance to promote border regions, i am afraid that some border regions may see themselves as the tip of the spear in another respect. it's not working. perhaps there is a solution to this problem through constructive cooperation.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking the chairman of our foreign affairs committee, mr elmar brok, for including in the transnational resolution important points from the opinions of the committees consulting us. as co-author of one of these opinions, that of the committee on fundamental freedoms, and of an opinion for the committee on legal affairs and internal market, i am today one of the few representatives of the committees of inquiry who can have a say in this debate. i must therefore also make a few criticisms of our internal parliamentary procedure. that is the timing of this debate. i think it would have been better to wait for the next commission progress reports. secondly, i find it very regrettable that only a few of the foreign affairs committee's national rapporteurs have taken account of the opinions of the committees consulting and that the authors of these opinions have not been granted automatically speaking time in this debate, contrary to the custom in this house. however, i am very pleased that very important points from my committees are included in the transnational opinion. this is the importance of article 13 and the acquis which we have now developed to combat discrimination. i think that this must be taken as seriously in the enlargement negotiations as, for example, the law on the internal market. secondly, i think it is very important to point out that the resolution contains for the first time the demand that we regard the protection of the external borders of the enlarged european union as a community task in future and not as the sole responsibility of the country on the border. i would like to conclude by making a request, particularly as an austrian member of parliament. i think that mr schröder's report on the czech republic is very good and i would ask the house to support it in all its aspects. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i can agree with much of what we have said today, mr president, on behalf of my group. i wonder why this was not made clear in the white paper you presented, unfortunately at a time when we were not able to discuss it directly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. you said, mr president, that parliament is the representative of the people of the union. i did. but when i look at the white paper, i find that phrase hardly, at least not prominently and first, where it belongs. i am not saying this merely to praise ourselves, but to avoid the illusion that some in the ngos have that dialogue with civil society can in some way replace the parliamentary democratic process. no, it cannot replace it, it can, it must, it should supplement it! that is an important aspect. that brings me to my second point. yes, we in our group are in favour of increased consultation of civil society, whatever term is used. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. at least don't tell me how you're going to do it. secondly, you say very little about how this should be done together with parliament. yes, you mentioned that parliament has already started this process, correct. we must also strengthen it. but we must tackle things together, as you have said today, because the citizen experiences the european union and not so much the individual institutions. i would therefore ask you to make suggestions as to how you envisage this dialogue being conducted in a joint, efficient and feasible manner. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we're prepared to talk to you about that. (applause from the centre) thirdly, the delegation of decisions. i agree with you, mr president, that any parliament would be foolish if it wanted to take all the detailed decisions and regulations. what is the situation with the call-back or fall-back position that parliament has always called for? you don't say anything about that in your white paper. are you against it, are you for it? you cannot have the illusion that this parliament can agree to us delegating regulatory tasks and powers without the possibility of taking them back if things go wrong. we have not had a good experience with the lamfalussy report in particular. the commissioner or commissioner - i do not want to be too explicit here - has not supported this process of cooperation with parliament, even in the case of delegation. so we are skeptical and suspicious. the commission's proposal is not to be rejected, but we cannot at present approve of the commission's practice. mr president, in your white paper you mention several times the need to return to the core tasks, to refocus on the core tasks. you don't define that either? core tasks from when? the commission and the european union's core tasks 20 years ago are different from today and will continue to be different in the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i wonder whether this is really the european union's main task. in other areas - we think of the areas of asylum, migration, etc. - new tasks are emerging. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i agree with you, however, and i would like the commission to define what it sees as its core tasks for the future, for the next 10 years. because it's a decision of the moment. we shall discuss this with the council and the commission. the agenda-setting, the definition of political priorities year by year, is not only a task of the council and the commission, but of course also a task of parliament. i have now identified the critical points. we have no time for the other points, but i think you will have more of them if we mention our criticisms, but we also offer to have a dialogue with you in the coming months to reach a common conclusion. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already done so. i would like to thank mr busquin in particular for the initiative, because the european investment bank has an excellent instrument to support research. my question is whether it is possible for the european investment bank to provide indirect support, for example to groups which promote small and mediumsized enterprises, so that the small and mediumsized economy in europe, which generates 60% of gross national product and employs two thirds of the workforce, can also benefit from it. it would be very important here that indirect possibilities are also available.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is certainly always difficult to have to write a report on one's own country, because then one is perhaps too subjective. i'm trying to present things objectively. i must begin by making it clear that when austria negotiated its accession to the european union, it expressed the wish that the content and essence of the transit agreement be incorporated in a protocol and thus be part of the accession and the contractual relationship upon accession to the european union. the transit contract is certainly of particular importance because transit traffic in austria - a unique situation in the european union - not only accounts for a very high proportion of total traffic - up to 80% on some routes - but also, due to the geographical situation and the fact that the country is relatively small, contributes to a relatively high burden on the environment, especially on sensitive areas. it is also a field which has virtually no value added of its own. it is clear that in the long term transit cannot be separated from other modes of transport. that is why this transit system has an expiry date which is relatively soon, namely the end of 2003. the commission does not like this contract. i understand that some people don't like it, but it's not the best thing in terms of traffic. the commission has tried in various ways to torpedo this treaty. on the one hand, she felt that the sanctions mechanism was too strict. i agree with the commission on the substance, and i understand that. that is why i have taken account of what uli stockmann has asked for here, and my point 2 (c) states that we as parliament are of the opinion that a better, more flexible method must be found. the commission then said that the calculation was not working correctly in austria. i can't judge that, that's a matter of fact. we have decided in the committee to ask the commission to ensure that a correct calculation is made, because i do not want to be blamed for incorrect calculations. but then the commission said: we do not like the sanctions mechanism, we do not like the calculation, and if we cannot get away with it, then we are also against the quantitative ceiling. it is clear, however, that the quantitative ceiling for the passage of lorries was part of the contract from the outset! a preliminary assessment by the european court of justice also found that this was an essential element of the transit system. it is also not true, as the commission has claimed, that this is a kind of negative incentive to use environmentally friendly vehicles. of course, every entrepreneur is better off using environmentally friendly vehicles because they have to use fewer eco-points. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. i do not understand why this attack on an existing contractual relationship, which is due to expire in the near future, is being carried out so forcefully. i also do not understand, madam commissioner, why this is happening in a situation where the commission knows that austria will have to expect a serious increase in transit traffic as a result of the next enlargement. i can give you the study of an independent economic institute which found that by 2015 - that is certainly a long time - transit traffic is expected to increase by four to five times. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. i would like to say again that in our view this is not a matter of introducing a new regulation. it is not a question of introducing additional restrictions. it is simply a matter of maintaining an existing contractual relationship - and the principle of trust applies when contracts are concluded. i would like to repeat that, in a sensitive period when enlargement is at stake, it is important not to add fuel to the fire, because we know exactly what this will do. i would of course recommend that the report as it has been adopted in committee - i admit, by a very narrow majority, if one can speak of a majority at all - should be accepted tomorrow. commissioner, i know you won't be able to agree, but i would like to ask you one thing: in the event - which is easy - that parliament decides otherwise and rejects my proposal, could you consider not using force? could you use the precarious and sensitive situation in this country, which is also important for the negotiations with the candidates for enlargement, as an opportunity to seek a long-term solution and not to impose a short-term solution by force? (applause from the centre)
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'common carrier'. the commission is not the vote on the repeal of the 108% clause is about much more than just an environmental issue in austria. the problem is only secondary to the burden of transit in a sensitive alpine region. the first and foremost thing is that there is a valid treaty between austria and the european union. the commission's proposal for a regulation is now seeking to unilaterally abolish this existing treaty. the european parliament is called upon to ensure that this unjust act is legitimized. if we accept this proposal, we are encouraging a breach of the treaty to the detriment of a member state of the union. this can and must lead to a loss of confidence in the contracts concluded and, consequently, in the legal certainty of the european union. in 1994 a large number of people in the alpine region concerned voted in favour of joining the eu, in the belief that they would be faithful to the treaty. if we vote for this unjustified withdrawal of the safeguard clause, we will be encouraging the people's disillusionment with the union and leading them to blockade the streets again. in this context, i urge you to support mr swoboda's report or, given the weather, to leave it in the rain!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. mr swoboda, our rapporteur, and mr kronberger are both austrians, which is of course no coincidence, and both have explained the situation in austria in detail. i think that this is not a problem which is confined to austria. the report and the vote tomorrow are about a decision of enormous importance. i am not trying - and i do not want to - to play the internal market, competition, environment and transport policy against each other. i think there are two points. firstly, i repeat the request of my colleagues: a contract should not be terminated unilaterally in the bush manner. secondly, how seriously are we taking our european environmental and transport policy? how seriously are we going to implement it, and how efficiently are we going to push it forward? so it's not just about reducing nitrogen oxides on the brenner motorway. we need a coherent transport concept for the whole alpine region and an internationalisation of external costs. as long as there is no cost truth, the road will remain cheaper. neither combined transport nor rail can compete here. the whole ecologically sensitive alpine region needs our support in accordance with the alpine convention. the citizens, not only of these sensitive regions, are counting on the european parliament, on the sense of responsibility of all members!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i speak as an austrian, but i also speak as a european. i'll give you three reasons. firstly, the transit contract was part of a promise made by the union to austria. the promise was that the sensitive alpine region would not be overrun by an endless traffic avalanche. the austrians have trusted in the word of europe. 66% of austrians voted for joining the union. if the commission's present proposal is adopted, that promise will be broken. i am speaking as a european, and this is the stuff that will cause a lot of grief if another referendum goes wrong somewhere in europe. secondly, the transit agreement and therefore the 108% clause, the abolition of which is in question, is part of the treaty of accession to the european union. that means the transit contract is a primary right. i ask you a question of conscience: what is the value of a treaty if the european parliament can undermine primary law by voting? this is also a matter of principle, not just austrian but european. thirdly, a question for all of you: what are words on paper worth? i quote from article 6 (new) of the amsterdam treaty: 'the requirements of environmental protection must be taken into account in the formulation and implementation of the community policies referred to in article 3, such as the free movement of goods.' the vote tomorrow is a measure of how seriously this house takes the objective of the article in the amsterdam treaty. or, ladies and gentlemen, will environmental protection and sustainable development be left to mere words? the match tomorrow is between free movement of goods and environmental protection. this is a fundamental european issue. i therefore ask you to approve the report.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in the long run, our ideas are not that different. the commissioner responsible, as far as her future plans are concerned, wants what we all want and need, namely particularly sensitive traffic rules for particularly sensitive areas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the solutions worked out almost ten years ago and the compromises reached at that time for trans-alpine transit have, on the whole, worked. the eco-point system, despite its weaknesses, has led to a significant improvement in the environmentally problematic nitrogen oxide situation, and the numerical ceiling with the 108% rule in question has fulfilled at least some of the safety net functions sought, despite a number of problems. why now and why, given this initial situation, terminate a substantial part of the arrangement early for a short period of time? this is the question people in austria are asking themselves and they cannot find an answer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. i think we would all be doing a disservice to the future of european transport policy if we now put the common long-term objective at risk or even lose sight of it because of relatively minor inconsistencies and disputes. i therefore believe that the position adopted by the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism two months ago, by an admittedly narrow majority, is correct. this position of the committee, instead of causing great emotional and political problems for austria and its citizens, could be a good starting point for new efforts to find mutually acceptable solutions. all against austria: it cannot and must not be. all in the name of a good and forward-looking solution to the european transport problem. that should be our aim and i hope we will have good votes tomorrow to ensure that.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not when you lose, you lose. i have to accept, of course, if that's the decision. but commissioner, you have stressed several times today that you must propose an equivalent solution. i would like to make it quite clear that you have not proposed an equivalent solution. in that respect, you do not comply with the rule of law! (applause from the centre)
mr president, i would like to emphasize that the commissioner quoted quite correctly. the treaty can only be revised if equivalent measures are taken. please, what are these?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a wonderful good evening and welcome to the first european cultural channel! no, kidding aside, what am i supposed to tell you in a minute? i'm trying to take the wind out of the sails of some skeptics. it is not a question of interfering, it is not a question of interfering in national cultural policies, nor is it a question of starting a new wave of harmonization, but rather of taking the sacred word of most politicians on sundays a little further and saying: please, subsidiarity should no longer be used as a veto. the point is that if you are serious about culture being one of the most important modules for the peaceful integration of europe, then action must follow. in so many areas, we try to deal with things together. why should culture do this alone? a common european investment in culture - i prefer that word to subsidies, so it is not just a matter of financial support - would be the time. let me take my time to pay tribute and thank all those colleagues who have been fighting patiently for this for many years, long before i came here, to get this thing going. i want to thank you for every millimeter, and i will continue to fight for every millimeter!
mr president, i was able to take part in the work of echelon as a representative of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, which is a very welcome change, and i should like to focus on some legal and institutional aspects. the rapporteur deserves our congratulations because we have before us today a report which is exceptional both in its methodology and in its content. i would also like to mention the extraordinary response that this report has already received far beyond the european union. i was able to discuss this with prominent members of the us senate only recently. firstly, they were well aware of the report - very unusual for a report of the european parliament - and secondly, they not only did not question its findings but also explicitly confirmed, for example, the name or code name 'echelon'. this is a big difference from a situation that existed just a few months and years ago, when our efforts to clarify the echelon matter were met with a great deal of deafening response even within the european union itself. the dismissive and ignorant answers to questions we have received from former and present commissioners such as bangemann and bolkestein, or from the council of ministers, fill thick volumes in our private libraries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am therefore also confident that the commission will help us to take the concrete steps we propose in our draft report, in particular the legal steps to improve the protection of european citizens and businesses, the concrete proposal for an additional protocol to the european convention on human rights, which specifies article 8, the need to conclude an agreement with the united states, and much more. member states should be urged to refrain from illegal activities should they occur, to exercise greater democratic control over their intelligence services and to take more seriously the legal protection of other eu citizens, not just their own. (applause from the centre)
madam president, the report describes very vividly the dangers of old and new terrorism, the threat it poses, but also the impotence of the traditional institutions in europe in the face of these threats. if i may be permitted to disagree with you on just one point, the threat of terrorism has nothing to do with a democratic society - although this is often the target of terrorism - but is a much wider threat to every person, whatever the political conditions in which he lives. that is why it is so difficult, and perhaps not so important, to define the concept of terrorism more precisely, but rather, as the report proposes, to start from a definition of the terrorist act which describes the threat to individuals and groups. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the declaration in article 29 of the eu treaty that terrorism is a form of crime must also be binding on all eu member states whose political representatives, depending on their political views, justify acts of violence inside or outside the eu. i remember that in discussions on the middle east conflict some colleagues suddenly found some sympathy for terrorist activities on one side or the other, even though they were merely death squads and attacks on the civilian population. the fight against terrorist activities requires not only the necessary organizational resources and the cooperation of the responsible institutions but also the political will. threatening an innocent person is never justified.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if we succeed in adopting the recommendations to the council with a large majority here in the european parliament, we will not only have sent a signal, but we will have taken decisive steps against a terrorism which is inhuman, destructive of human beings and hostile to democracy, such as is taking place in spain in particular, but unfortunately also in other european countries. the member states of the european union should use this package of measures proposed by mr watson, which ranges from approximation of legislation on legal aid, the european arrest warrant and compensation for victims, not only against the forms of terrorism known to us, but also against the new forms of terrorism, as we have seen at the last summits and as we should fear in the event of future similar events. the debate on these new forms of terrorism has gone wrong. there was no discussion about the safety of citizens who were innocently exposed to violence, there was no discussion about protecting property from destruction by violent and violent activists, there was no discussion about the policemen who were seriously injured, nor about compensating the victims, nor about international police cooperation. there was also too little discussion about the background of the supportive environment, the sources of funding, the political drivers of these acts of violence. it was a small talk. the terrorism that is threatening to re-emerge here shows that there is a danger of developing an international, globalised terrorism which does not really lead this debate on globalisation that should be held, but which is merely used as a vehicle for terror against the government, against the state, that is, against our democratic conditions. i therefore expect that we will deal with the terrorism we have known so far with all our strength, but also that we will deal with these new forms of terrorism with all our strength in the interests of the citizens, the security and stability of our countries, of the european union, and that we will remember the many who have already fallen victim to this terrorism. i ask you all to give your full support to this package of measures, which has been prepared with such excellence, not only in the interests of spain but also in the interests of europe, of stability, of the security of the people! (applause from the centre)
in writing. - (de) we, the undersigned, members of the european parliament from the övp delegation in the epp, are today unanimously voting against the commission's proposal to suspend provisionally and without any alternative measure the application of the so-called 108% clause on the numerical limitation of transit transport, as provided for at the time in protocol no 9 on the ecopoints system applicable to heavy goods vehicles transiting through austria. this commission plan is contrary to the letter and spirit of the regulations negotiated in the past. however, we remain committed to this objective and, by voting on paragraph 2 (a) to (c) of the legislative resolution, we have contributed to the fact that, in the next steps in the search for targeted and sustainable solutions to the transport problems of the so-called sensitive regions - and therefore austria and the alpine area - a consensus will be reached between all the european institutions, the commission, the council and the european parliament.
in writing. - (de) the delegation of the freedom party approved the enlargement report on the czech republic. i would like to clarify once again our position on paragraphs 42 to 44 of the report. the melk process, introduced between austria and the czech republic, has so far not produced the expected results. the objectives pursued were not achieved. satisfactory results will only be possible if the temelin question is raised, beyond the bilateral level, at european level. this is why it is necessary to take a european closure initiative, which sets out the timetable and funding possibilities for a final solution to the temelin question with the involvement of the commission and the member states.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the denial of democracy and a social dimension in european integration creates conflict. what is our answer? the european parliament has been waiting all summer for this first session of the european parliament. in genoa they have come to know a state and a europe which have deeply traumatised them. this trauma grows larger every day that we don't respond appropriately. what is the answer of this parliament? mr poettering congratulated mr berlusconi on his first day. the christian democrats and the right wing of this house have rejected the resolution and have made it clear that they will also reject a committee of inquiry. they need to be clear about what they identify with. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of this disease, including the introduction of a new drug policy, the introduction of a new drug policy, the introduction of a new drug policy, the introduction of a new drug policy, the introduction of a new drug policy, the introduction of a new drug policy, the introduction of a new drug policy, the introduction of a new drug policy, the introduction of a new drug policy, the introduction of a new drug policy, the introduction of a new drug policy, the introduction of a new drug policy, the introduction of a new drug policy, the introduction of a new drug policy, the introduction of a new drug policy, the introduction of a new drug policy, the introduction of a new drug policy, the introduction of a new drug policy, the introduction of a new drug policy, the introduction of a new drug policy, the introduction of a new drug policy, the introduction of new drugs policy, the introduction of new drugs policy, the introduction of new drugs policy, the introduction of new drugs policy, the introduction of new drugs policy, the new drugs policy, the new drugs policy, the new drugs policy, the new drugs policy, the new drugs, the new drugs, the new drugs, the new drugs, the new drugs, the new drugs, etc. i was in genoa for a week. i visited the prisons. i have spoken to the authorities and i have spent ten hours recording the reports of people who have been systematically tortured and mistreated for some thirty hours. you're trying to sweep this under the table! the christian democrats have left it to the italian right to debate the matter here. one of them had the nerve to say there was no evidence. ladies and gentlemen, if you agree to an investigative report, we will provide you with the evidence in case files for hundreds of cases of torture, abuse, assault and police excesses. it is not just the italian police who are responsible for this, because these young people have been waiting all over europe for this first meeting, confident that the guardians of fundamental rights are sitting in this house and that this house will not be silent and will not make common cause with this law-laden government in italy. allow me a bitter word as an austrian. what would have happened if such an unprecedented summit had been held in austria a year ago? one dead, 500 injured, 470 arrested and taken to prison, of whom 90% have now been released for lack of evidence, because the police have arbitrarily arrested them up to 50 km around genoa and accused them of tampering with evidence. this has a european dimension and this parliament is faced with the question ... (the president cut the speaker off)
counsel. - once again, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must distinguish between the answers i give as president of the council, which cannot exceed the council's powers - this must be clear - and those i might be called upon to give as a member of the belgian government, for that matter. firstly, it is tradition, even more than tradition, it is i believe the duty of any member of the government not to comment on judicial instructions that are in progress. secondly, ladies and gentlemen, when i presented the presidency's position on the g8 this afternoon and discussed the issues of ensuring the smooth running of both these meetings and the demonstrations outside, i said and reiterated that the belgian government's attention and firm determination was to reconcile the right to demonstrate with the maintenance of public order and the prevention of violence such as we have seen taking place both in gothenburg and in italy. we are doing everything in our power to achieve this result. i hope that everyone will be willing to make a personal contribution by using all the possibilities available.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i listened to your remarks with interest, but i would like to refer back to my question, question 6: what consequences should be drawn now, not in terms of police action, but in terms of organization and content, for such eu summits? i would like to know in particular whether you are also considering reducing the size of both the participants and the agenda, as you did at the g8 summits. if in future the council summits are to be held only in belgium, has a separate venue been considered? is there any consideration of this and if so, what are its features?
mr president, madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. you know the belgian one hundred franc note, which is equivalent to about two euros. in greece there is the thousand drachma note, which is only 0.5 cents. i mean, we are actually used to having a very paper-heavy currency, so my question is: do you think it is possible that we will also get one- or two-euro notes, after the five-euro note is currently the smallest denomination? in the southern countries in particular, paper money is much more popular than coins.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we're talking about email, we're talking about spamming, we're talking about all sorts of things. i think we should distinguish, in principle, three areas, namely from business to business, from business to customer and from customer to customer. then we should also think about the principles. i do not think that each technical form of communication necessarily requires its own solution. we all know the principle of the letterbox, which you can put a sticker on. we've all learned to use the phone, the cell phone, texting, e-mail. i think we are really being asked to think about the principle by which we want to handle this technology, this information supply, this advertising that is possible here in the future. of course, we must also take account of the value of these standards. i know people who say, i want to get as much information as possible in all sorts of areas. i want to decide for myself what i'm going to throw away or not. there are others who say i only want the information i personally requested. we also know this as pay-as-you-go debt. i think we should have a serious discussion on this point too. with cyber war and cyber crime, we should focus on three things: we should increase research and development in this area, particularly in ispra near milan. i believe that there is a lot to be done here, including in the area of the security foundations in the commission and in parliament. we should think about what training and further training we can offer in this area, for example in technical colleges, in university chairs. i think that activities are necessary here. we need to think about what kind of security infrastructure should be offered in the future in the hardware and software sector. i would like to conclude by saying that the separation of powers is also important. the four-eyes principle should be applied by law enforcement agencies, courts and operators in particular, to ensure that these systems cannot be abused.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for presenting and now presenting his very good report, which takes account of the commission's proposals and the complementary measures of the committee. thank you very much. we all know that the competition rules date back to 1957 and regulation no 17 to 1962, and that since then the framework has changed. on the one hand, we are faced with globalisation, on the other hand, the european union of six is becoming an eu of 25 in the future, and i personally think it is good that the centralised system, whereby the application of articles 81 and 82 was entrusted exclusively to the commission, is being transformed into a decentralised system. this decentralised system must not lead to a renationalisation of competition policy. this is also de facto prevented by putting european law before national law, and i expect that the present proposal will create fair competition and a level playing field, legal certainty for all companies, a uniform application of competition policy, simplification of procedures based on the principle of the one-stop-shop system, coordination of national competition authorities, which i consider to be independent, and close interaction between national authorities and courts with the commission, as well as a clear division of responsibilities between national authorities and courts in the application of european competition and antitrust law, and that the commission will continue to be the guardian of the treaties and thus have more time for the real problems, namely merger and cartel control. congratulations on having the courage to start something new! i would like to see this reinforced in other areas as well.
- mr president, as a democrat, i must of course take note of decisions, even if i don't like them. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the matter. after having already discussed the legal basis of this decision and having raised objections to the legal basis, to which we have not received a reply from the commission, this house decided yesterday to approve the commission's legislative proposal and then adopted a resolution rejecting the commission's proposal. that is what is said in paragraph 11 of the minutes. i now ask for clarification under rule 148 (3) that the decision taken by parliament yesterday be referred to the committee on constitutional affairs for two reasons: first, we need to clarify which of the two decisions is really applicable in this case. secondly, we need to clarify in the rules of procedure what is to be done in such cases for the future. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be involved in the matter. i believe that a correction should be made in principle if the committee on constitutional affairs so decides. i therefore refer my objection to rule 148 (3). i would ask the committee on constitutional affairs to clarify the situation and to lay down in the rules of procedure the procedure to be followed in future cases.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to congratulate the ombudsman very warmly on the work he and his staff did in 2000 and to illustrate this congratulation and this assessment, i would like to give you some figures which show that the ombudsman has become a european institution that is no longer able to think outside the box. in 1995, there were only 298 complaints, in 2000, the year to which my report refers, there were 1732. there were, of course, a lot of cases which ultimately fell outside the competence of the european ombudsman. however, the excellent networking of the european ombudsman, which was to be further developed, led to the referral of the relevant cases and complaints to the appropriate bodies. the ombudsman is there for the citizens, and sometimes there is confusion of powers. the ombudsman has already addressed much of what is in my report. the increasing reduction in processing times is very welcome; the ombudsman is an example of what good administrative practice should look like at european level. 83% of the complaints concerned the commission. i do not blame the commission for this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. what is interesting to me, however, is the fact that the complaints are ultimately focused on. this is 28% lack of or refusal of information or transparency and 24% avoidable delays. so together, that's over half the complaints that focus on those two areas. that is the point, commissioner, on which we are dealing with good governance. these are the areas where zero euro could improve european administration! i think it is very remarkable, and it must be said very clearly in a parliament, that the commission has failed to consult the expert at european level, the european ombudsman, on the issue of the white paper on good governance. i ask you, commissioner, how serious are you about improving administration at european level? we do not need white papers, we have an ombudsman who receives complaints from our fellow citizens every year. we must not delay and put off reforms and white papers and studies and who knows what else, but we need a different administration. this is very clear from this report. i have taken the liberty of dealing with individual cases in the annex to this report. commissioner, this is a submarine. you know the importance of the submarines to the last commission and what has come out of it. the fact that it takes almost a dozen interventions by the european ombudsman for such a submarine to finally receive a certificate of work from the commission says something about the new commission. if it was not possible for this commission to admit that submarines existed until the year 2000, who are you going to tell that this commission is prepared to take transparency and - i say this as a socialist - the protection of workers' rights in europe seriously? in such cases, which require critical attention, i would really like to ask our ombudsman to carry out a more stringent follow-up, to make a little criticism, otherwise it will only be a matter of praise, and i will not be believed. mr södermann, i would also ask you, as i wrote in the report, to submit a special report on the question of access to documents or data. i can only thank you once more for your work. i would like to include in this thanks to you your staff. i believe that it has become a very central building block for the further development of this european union, and i hope that you will continue to work as you have done so far. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. it may seem like a struggle for a small paragraph somewhere in the great treaty of the european union. but i think what we're dealing with is a very fundamental question, more than just a cultural contrast. it is clear once again that the world has not yet succeeded in bringing the principles of the enlightenment, as they have found access to american legal practice through the american constitution and the freedom of information act, here to europe, because the enlightenment has unfortunately stopped before the french administrative tradition. this is how you experience the different speeches. it is a bitter thing to see that the european union is now back where it was on 17 december 1992 with the draft for the ombudsman. but at least we're here, and i think we can win this time. if there is so much complaint about citizens having a problem with the eu institutions, it is essentially because there is still silence and secrecy. what is now proposed in the garrett report, which i think can only be supported, is only the first step. first, the ombudsman should have real access to all documents, and then the citizens themselves. we need to reverse the burden of proof here. i would even ask the ombudsman to tell us in future which documents he is not getting under the rules on confidentiality, and that by reversing the burden of proof we will be able to live in a democracy and, if possible, have access to all documents and also to public meetings of the council. because i firmly believe that there can be no democracy without transparency. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i do not want to delay the votes for too long. i objected to the minutes this morning under rule 148 (3). the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. parliament has not decided on this. i was just wondering what happens to my objection now. secondly, i would like to point out the following: we have taken the decision yesterday to accept the commission's proposal in connection with my report. we then decided in a legislative resolution to reject the commission's proposal. that was changed by the services in the minutes to 'approve the commission proposal'. but paragraph 4 still contains a sentence which contradicts the first decision, because it still says: the ceiling should be maintained, which we rejected at the beginning. in view of these contradictions, which are also contained in the present draft minutes, i have asked the committee on constitutional affairs to consider amending the rules of procedure in general so that it is clear what happens when such contradictions arise. i just wanted to point out that my objection to the minutes was not decided, contrary to rule 148 (3). i assume that the minutes will not be approved at this point and will be approved at a later date.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank mr ebner very warmly for his own-initiative report. it is a report which i can wholeheartedly support. given that, as mr ebner has already mentioned, about 30% of the eu's land is mountainous and in some member states, such as austria, the figure is as high as 50%, i welcome and support this owninitiative report. the importance of mountain ecosystems is a cultural heritage. the conservation and sustainable management of resources is of great importance to many regions of europe. the protection of the mountain areas, forests, water, ecological balance and biodiversity must be addressed in a european overall approach. a large number of mountains cross borders. many problems can be tackled better by working together across borders. i would like to stress in this context the multifunctional role of agriculture and forestry in mountain areas, which are also of the utmost importance in an enlarged union. both the people who live in the mountains and the tourists who come to the mountains every year to relax and relax appreciate this unique natural and cultural landscape. we must therefore create the right incentives so that people are willing to live and work there. the ecological and socioeconomic consequences of migration and depopulation must be prevented. sustainable farming by the farmers not only provides high quality food, but also represents a great service to all people. the united nations rightly declared 2002 the year of the mountain. i think it is important that europe now takes a stand and that the commission presents a communication as soon as possible, which also sets out a really clear definition, taking into account criteria such as height, slope, shortened vegetation, in order to really address the different problems throughout europe, and also proposes the corresponding concepts for strategies and support mechanisms. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i know that we have more important things to do today, but i would nevertheless like to draw your attention to the fact that on 6 september i raised objections to the minutes of the previous day and also asked that the committee on the rules of procedure be given a vote which was subsequently amended to clarify these questions in general, not just this specific case. i raised an objection again at noon and pointed it out, but i have not received a reply until today, and i think that a member has the right to receive an answer. i would ask you first of all: do you also think that a member has the right to be given an answer in the event of objections? secondly, when can i expect such a response?
mr president, this terrorist attack in the united states unfortunately affects us all, and not just because hundreds of europeans are likely to be among the dead. only 30 austrians are still missing. solidarity and cooperation in the response to this terrorist attack should be understood as an unconditional offer from europeans, and european partners should refrain from making any conditions. spain, a member of the eu, has certainly made a mark here, as has france; both countries quickly sent politicians to the united states. i would appeal to the austrian political parties to abandon the so-called neutrality altogether, because there can be no neutrality between terrorists and innocent victims. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east, and the european council has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. and those of you who offer wise sayings of military restraint and pacifist fantasies, i would like to invite you to new york to speak at the school where my children go to, to those children who lost their fathers or mothers or both in this attack!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union is still more vulnerable than the united states in all cases and will remain so unless cooperation between the member states in combating terrorism is optimized, both in the legal and operational fields. we have europol as an institution with competence also in the fight against terrorism, but europol is powerless unless all the member states comply with the convention and provide in a timely manner the comprehensive information necessary for analysis and subsequent assistance to the member states. europol is toothless when it lacks sufficient staff and currently only 12 europol staff are investigating terrorism in europe. europol is also toothless if the necessary technology is not provided. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. i would therefore like to remind the member states to comply with the europol convention, in particular article 4, and to introduce a mechanism to oblige the member states to provide the information. secondly, we must provide a budget large enough to enable a situation centre to be set up with an appropriate number of analysts to investigate terrorism. thirdly, in the fight against terrorism we must set up joint investigation teams, working together between europol analysts and representatives from the member states. we welcome the accelerated initiative by commissioner vitorino with the two framework decisions as a new legal basis which we urgently need to combat terrorism effectively. europe is in great need. europe is called upon to take action and to speak out more than ever before against terrorism. that's the order of the day!
the commission has already done so. the cohesion fund was set up to prepare the union's structurally weak countries for economic and monetary union. the cohesion countries have made a strong recovery in recent years and all of them are participating in emu. i therefore find that this objective of the cohesion fund has been achieved. nevertheless, agenda 2000 decided to continue the cohesion fund. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. with the enlargement to the east, the union's cohesion policy as it is currently structured can no longer be continued. we all know that the eastern enlargement is not something that can be had at zero cost, and we should be honest about that. i also believe that there is a lot wrong with the union's cohesion policy in terms of efficiency, administrative burden and the vulnerability of this policy to fraud. what is needed is a fundamental debate on the strengths and weaknesses of this policy, and thus on a reform of this cohesion policy. i know this is a difficult debate, because this is about property. but there is also a fundamental question here, namely, what does solidarity mean in the union?
the commission has already done so. i am very pleased that this own-initiative report has been drawn up. any of us who have read the book "the desert flower" by waris dirie will be forever shocked and affected. i am thinking today of the 130 million women and girls who have been subjected to female genital mutilation, and every year two million more. i also think of the many girls who lose their lives in this cruel way. i would therefore like to say at the outset that i strongly support a common position by the eu and its member states to abolish these procedures which are harmful to women's sexual and reproductive health. it will be necessary for the commission and the council to take account of these aspects of female genital mutilation in a common immigration and asylum policy. this is also true of refugee policy. i would like to point out - and i am aware of this - that asylum is granted here mainly when political protection is required by the state. genital mutilation is a gray area, and it is usually performed by private individuals. this makes it all the more difficult to combat this practice. we all need to do a lot of persuasion, information and education in the population, and a change in society must take place. i consider genital mutilation to be a violation of human rights, which i will not accept by anyone or anything. we must raise this issue in the public sphere and raise awareness among the people of the eu and the developing world to prevent this terrible mutilation for future generations of women. we must also ensure - and this has been mentioned by some of my predecessors - that this practice is also stopped in our member states, as i know there is a very large grey area here. i therefore ask that we really work together to prevent this practice.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the proposal which has come from the council represents an opportunity for refugees to be granted refugee status under the geneva convention, according to uniform criteria which apply throughout the union. this council proposal guarantees swift and secure procedures for genuine refugees - that is, about 10% of all those who apply for asylum - and it also guarantees swift rejection. that's about 90 percent of people who have applied for reasons other than actual reasons for fleeing, and that's better than waiting years and then having to face a negative decision. this proposal also guarantees an end to asylum shopping. but we need complementary measures. the dublin convention, eurodac, the rules for safe third countries and safe countries of origin. we, the european people's party, therefore support this proposal from the council. i would also like to make it clear on behalf of the epp that the right of asylum cannot be used politically to encourage immigration for any number of reasons, through the amendments and proposals which have been tabled here. this is a real-life investigation. we must use the instruments we now have as europe to provide for immigration, asylum or temporary assistance when refugees come from war zones. we must not impose unrealistic measures. it is necessary to guarantee in hinkunft that the right to asylum remains reserved for those who are politically persecuted and is not extended to groups that some here want politically, which is not in any way in line with the actual situation under the geneva convention. the aim must be to ensure that we can provide optimal and rapid assistance to genuine refugees and follow-up measures for their integration, but also to make it clear to everyone else that there will be new instruments for immigration to the european union, including for economic reasons.
i have to say, madam president, as a member of parliament, i feel represented above all by the president of this house, and i would therefore like to put a very specific question to you in connection with what mr enrique barón crespo said. the statement made by the italian prime minister has been criticized by many. it has been criticized - and this may surprise you - by mr haider, who felt that it was too much xenophobia. madam president, you have always been a strong supporter of dialogue with islam and you have taken concrete steps. your policy is contrary to what mr berlusconi has said. given that you have found very clear words in other situations - which were not always easy for me to defend at home, but i have defended them because i have always appreciated your clear language - i would find it important that in this context, madam president, you also find very clear and unambiguous words. that's what i'm asking you to do. perhaps i missed those words, perhaps i didn't hear them or read them. i ask you to state very clearly the position of this parliament on these statements. this is a parliament which has always been in favour of dialogue, which has always been in the process of dialogue. our whole existence as a parliament is linked to the dialogue of religions, to the dialogue of cultures, and i think that you, as president of parliament, should say that very clearly and unequivocally on this occasion. (applause from the socialist group)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as in the first reading and as in the discussions and votes in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, my group supports the rapporteur in his line. the most controversial points, namely the environmental noise at airports and also at military airports, are not on the table in this reading. the common position falls short of the more specific wording of the commission proposal, but far short of the requirements which parliament places on european noise abatement policy. for example, the common position has deleted all the fixed dates for when noise maps must be drawn up and approved. the same applies to action plans. my group therefore considers it urgent to adopt and accept all the amendments which reinstate these specific dates. another point is information. amendment no 22 states that member states must ensure that the noise maps and action plans are published on the internet no later than two months after approval. this is very important to us. i believe that we can have general debates on how to bring europe closer to the citizens if we do not shy away from putting information policy into practice when we make very concrete policy proposals. the key question, i think, is - as my two previous speakers have said - whether we will succeed in calling for subsidiary directives. i think it is an advance that there are harmonized noise measurement methods and common noise indices. but this can only be the beginning. what do we tell people when we point out the problem but fail to take concrete steps to solve it? i think that a time limit is necessary here. we cannot wait forever for the next steps to be taken in this area. that is why my group, together with the greens, has signed the motion to submit these subsidiary directives within three years.
- madam president, mr president of the commission, mr president! thank you very much for your report today. from time to time, we draw closer together and share a common viewpoint. but it 's not yet time . there's one major point where i think we're different. firstly, it is clear that you have today committed yourself to parliamentary democracy in a form which naturally has important consequences for all our work, and in particular for the role of so-called civil society. this is another somewhat nebulous term, as is governance, but governance is used where parliamentary democracies do not exist or can hardly exist, as in the context of global governance. the civil society - and i think you have made this clear - we must insist on it, it has an advisory, a supporting and a helping role, but at the heart of democracy as we understand it is the european parliament and, of course, the national parliaments. they are, as you said, the expression of the will of the people, and we shall insist on that. the main point, where there are still differences, is the question of alternative forms of regulation. we are not so arrogant as to believe that only parliament can regulate, that only parliament can create appropriate regulations, even in detail. the question of what the framework is, what the details are, what the political direction is, what the technical implementation is - that is a very delicate question! i must therefore insist that we as parliament should always be consulted on this matter and that it should not be the commission that decides on it, but that it should be a joint decision, a kind of interinstitutional agreement between the council, parliament and the commission. this is particularly true of the callback position which we have also dealt with today. to put it very clearly, we need both. we need a call back from parliament on alternative forms of regulation and we need a reform of comitology. we can make friends with what is indicated in the white paper, namely a reform of the comitology, but that is not enough. this is a necessary but not sufficient condition for the decisionmaking process at parliamentary level to become more democratic. i hope you have understood correctly that you, mr president, will not put forward anything in laeken without first discussing it with this parliament and obtaining its opinion. you said it in general, that's good; but i can tell by your nods that you mean it, and that's a big improvement over last time. i would like to thank you very much for that. in conclusion, and to make one thing clear, we do not want to interfere with the commission's executive powers as a parliament. but what we reject most profoundly and thoroughly are attempts by the commission - there are such attempts - to interfere in the legislative powers, to appropriate some of the legislative powers. that is what is stated in certain provisions and phrases in the white paper, and we must say no to that. the executive is the commission's, but the legislative is the parliament's and the council's, and we want to insist on that!
- madam president! - what is it? the commission is not prepared to accept this. almost all the speakers here have asked - and you yourself have asked - why the eu's image is not what you expect it to be and why people are losing confidence in it. i am actually surprised that there is always a tone of resentment and misunderstanding, as if it were unfair, and the responses to this phenomenon also have a very paternalistic tinge. it is about explaining things a little better to people, it is about presenting our policy to people better. unlike mr swoboda, i do not think we have really come any closer on this issue. it's a very vague concept, this good governance, and what you promise is not really clear to the people. they promise transparency and openness and consultation, but, mr president of the commission, that is not what is at issue. the great misunderstanding - i would almost call it a historical misunderstanding - is that this commission has no concept of european democracy. it has no concept or notion of democracy in the supranational sphere. all these paternalistic ideas that you are developing here overlook the fact that you do not have the courage - for years - to point out the democratic shortcomings of this european union with the necessary clarity and sharpness, that you also recognize that there must be a surrender of power by the commission if a european democracy is to emerge, and that you must also join this parliament in going to the barricades on much more essential issues, for example, as regards the preparation of a constitutional process and its essential content. no, a real struggle with dissatisfaction would be to address the emergency of legitimacy. we still rule the people with regulations because we don't have the courage to say that we already make laws. we call them regulations because the democratic legitimacy of these laws is very fragile, because the separation of powers has not been achieved, because the public nature of the legislation has not been achieved, because the binding of the administration to the laws has not been achieved, and instead excessive discretionary powers have arisen which cannot be brought into line with democratic principles, because in many respects - let us take the comitology - we have an irregular administration and no regular, without official statutes, without clear loyalties, with very unclear manipulable appointment methods for officials in these areas. mr president, you will not be able to bring the question of good technocracy into the democratic discourse. just as there is no good dictatorship, there is no good technocracy. they will have to ask themselves the question of european democracy and the commission's position in this process.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the debate on the european commission's white paper on european governance comes at a good time and a bad time. unfavourable because any debate on the internal structure and functioning of the european union and the legitimacy of the european union is currently overshadowed by the need to protect european citizens from international terrorism and violence, so that relevant issues are being pushed into the background. but it is also good for the same reason: the european union now has the opportunity to meet the basic needs of the people for security within the eu, for legitimacy and, at the same time, for the ability to act outside the eu. transparent, open and verifiable decision-making can therefore contribute to the awareness of the european citizen and to the understanding of the european added value. that is the added value of your white paper, mr prodi. in this context, the proposals in the commission's white paper to promote systematic dialogue at regional and local level, to promote a more active role for the committee of the regions and to submit an annual report on the application of the amsterdam protocol on subsidiarity and proportionality from 2002 are particularly welcome. subsidiarity and the community method are not mutually exclusive. the division of tasks between the commission, the council and the european parliament must be clear, as must the balance between states, regions and the eu in terms of its institutional triangle. the idea that the european parliament and national parliaments should play a central role in the public debate on the future of europe is obvious. i am therefore surprised that the commission does not address the call for a convention in its white paper, as called for in the report by jo leinen and méndez de vigo. an open convention, which sets out the basis for decision-making in the council, with the participation of the commission as well as national and european parliamentarians, as well as member states and candidate countries, the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee as observers, is an appropriate and necessary forum for citizenship and transparency, and it must complement and support internal reforms.
- mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i think that, in line with what mrs stenzel has said, we can never have such a debate too late or too early. i think that the events of the last few weeks have brought more seriousness to politics and that citizens are making more demands on politicians. this is an opportunity to contribute to a renaissance of politics, and also to a serious renaissance of cooperation between the governments, the responsible bodies and the representatives of the people, namely the parliaments. we should see this debate that way. but if you write in the very beginning of your document that the citizens are feeling more distrust, more disinterest, more powerlessness, i agree with you, but you write in the second paragraph that this problem is recognized by the national parliaments and governments, but it is particularly acute for the european union. i see a problem here, in this very wording. we pretend, parliament and the commission, that we are the national governments and parliaments on the one hand and the european union on the other. this is precisely the contradiction that citizens - member states here, european institutions there - feel. we must finally make it clear that the european union is all of us! there is hardly any european decision without the participation of the national governments, but there are many european decisions without the participation of the european parliament. the question of codecision creates transparency, openness and dialogue and is therefore the starting point for a clear separation of powers and allocation of tasks. you write about leadership. i would ask the commission to take more initiatives which are not based on a minimum consensus with the council but on european needs. you write about cooperation with the regions, but in the proposal of the belgian presidency for the convention, the committee of the regions is not a full member of the convention. but we need it. we are talking about more information, but our action is limited to giving money to the member states for their information work, and the member states in turn do not inform their parliaments sufficiently about their decisions in the council and therefore exclude the citizens from european decisions. i would also like to ask for proposals on sanctions for the misuse of eu funds, because this leads to citizens' distrust of the institutions. europe must stand on top of what is within - from the european institutions down to the smallest community. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. let me start by saying that it is very positive that you are taking part in this debate as home secretary and not as a minister for europe. it has been noted that you understand something about the matter and are interested in actually making progress here. if this is done together with the commission and parliament, then we can expect real progress. the european union is now clearly serious about, and for the first time, making a real attempt to systematize migration policy, by clearly recognising that we have three groups of migrants for whom we need different measures and legal arrangements, and that there are cross-cutting issues. first, the three groups. we have economic migrants, and my report deals with them, that is, economic migrants who come to the member states according to the possibilities and needs of the member states. we have the asylum seekers, that is, those who are recognised as refugees under the geneva convention. i am strongly in favour of not relaxing or departing from this geneva convention in any way, either by extending or by softening the grounds for recognition. what we need are fast and secure decisions for refugees and minimum european standards in procedures. the third group is made up of war refugees, that is, refugees who come to us temporarily and need another form of help. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. so we have a complex system. my report deals exclusively with economic immigration and was adopted by six votes to none, which means that there was a broad consensus. i would like to thank you very much for the very constructive, positive cooperation with the various political groups in this house, which has made it possible to create this broad basis for a reformulation of economic immigration into the european union. the aim is to manage labour immigration in a controlled manner and to maintain stability in the social, economic and political spheres of the european union. but it is also about the fact that in the face of september 11th, we need to be more vigilant when it comes to hospitality, to aid, to the freedoms of the union, so that these are not abused by individual elements against the security of european citizens or the global world as a whole. we must also be clear, as i said at the beginning of my report, that we cannot make up for demographic deficits with immigration alone, but that the only good and sensible approach will of course be to strengthen education policy and improve family policy. it must also be clear that we have to put the integration of third-country nationals living legally here ahead of new immigration. what are the main points of my report? it is clear that the european union can only carry out certain tasks in relation to immigration and that a large part of this must remain in the hands of the member states. it must remain for member states to determine, according to their needs and possibilities, which and how many workers will be granted a residence and work permit for the member state. it is also clear that the conditions for integration, such as existing work, such as appropriate housing, must be taken into account in order for integration to take place. it is also important for us in the home affairs committee that we have expectations of immigrants, namely the willingness to integrate and the recognition of the community of values. conversely, it must also be the duty of the member states to provide adequate integration assistance. at union level, we must define the conditions for the entry and residence of these migrants, establish a coherent system for issuing visas, regulate the mobility of third-country nationals between member states and introduce measures to combat smuggling and illegal activities, as well as cooperation and information campaigns in and with the countries of origin. the committee welcomed in principle all the commission's proposals on labour immigration. i hope that the broad base we have found in the committee will also hold up in the plenary during the vote. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i should like to do something which i rarely do for time reasons, to congratulate mr pirker on his balanced report, even though i do not think he is in the chamber at the moment. the social integration of economic migrants in the member states is, he stressed, an essential necessity to avoid social tensions. the increased contact between migrants and natives may also help to identify so-called 'sleepers' and thus contribute to the fight against terrorism. i also believe that it is important in all the measures proposed to leave it to the member states to fine-tune the entry and residence of third-country nationals according to the needs of their own labour markets and demographic trends, because above all these questions can only be answered on the ground. it must also be important in future to take account of the enlargement that is coming in the planning of immigration policy. the rapporteur has taken all this into account. i wish his report every success - we support it anyway.
- mr president, i have to go. madam vice president! thank you for your initiative. the citizens want to see visible bridges in the enlargement. the slovak government wants a bridge to connect the two airports of vienna and bratislava to a large airport, which will be better connected by a transrapid link. this could be the first part of the route you mentioned between paris and vienna. i think it would be a very important initiative to go through here to budapest. but we also have the hub of navigation on the danube, and ultimately this would be a three-node system. do you think that funding for such hubs would also be possible through this programme?
- mr president, madam commissioner, mr president of the council! i think it is very positive that this conference took place in durban, that there were broad discussions, that a resolution was drawn up, that a conclusion was reached. what i sometimes miss in this debate is that too little is done to look to the future, to think about concrete measures to prevent racism from happening, so that it may not happen again. i would like to ask the european union to set a good example, and i would like to point out two areas where we could do this, because it is topical today: asylum and immigration policy. if we succeed in what we are trying to do, namely to implement a uniform asylum policy with minimum standards, where decisions are made safely and quickly, then we will no longer have the situation we have today, with ghettos where asylum seekers have to wait for years, accept illegal work, and exclusion takes place. quick decision leads to quick assistance and quick integration of recognized refugees and prevents this kind of exclusion that is happening now. that would be prevention against racism! i also hope that there will be progress on immigration policy. if the member states, to the best of their ability and provided that there is work and housing and educational opportunities, take in thirdcountry nationals and offer them integration assistance, then this is again a measure against exclusion, against discrimination and for integration, and i believe that we should take such concrete measures in order to be able to be really successful in preventing racism and discrimination. it is an opportunity for our european union! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, the european union has a special responsibility in combating racism and racial discrimination. the action programme adopted in durban on 8 september is an important message and a contribution to raising awareness in the fight against racism and xenophobia. it is to be welcomed that this conference was finally able to agree on a joint declaration. despite the massive efforts of many ngos and some states, not all of them, to turn the conference into a one-sided forum of condemnation against israel and to use the issue of slavery and colonialism as a pretext for compensation payments, it is a success that such extreme positions were avoided in the final document and that it was achieved. however, it is necessary to ask and reflect on whether the generous support to ngos, which i consider to be the right thing to do in principle, has always been channelled through the european union in the amount of eur 3.7 million, all the more so since agitators' arguments such as that zionism is the same as racism are very much part of the political vocabulary of some countries, such as syria. three days after the durban conference, the greatest terrorist attack against the civilized world has been carried out. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of specialised agencies to combat terrorism. but let us remember that human rights, the fight against racial discrimination and xenophobia are indivisible and have global significance. no one is immune to this, as the ethnic conflicts in the balkans and the tragic recent events in northern ireland show. the durban action plan is an important document for any country, but also for the european union as a whole, which has a great responsibility in this context, especially in the context of the united nations. i hope that the eu's role will become more visible here too!
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the first thing we are discussing here with regard to this directive is the question of principles: do we want the principle of harmonization or the principle of mutual recognition in the european union in the future, or the third option - where do we need the one and where do we need the other? we have only achieved a small success with this directive on the ec type-approval procedure, because of course in addition to the directive which is now being drawn up, national type-approval is still in force. we are all in favour of this and i would like to thank mr miller very much for his efforts. this is not the case, of course, with national type-approval procedures, which are now the prevailing and will continue to be the prevailing procedure. the success has been very modest, and that is why we are abstaining tomorrow, because we do not think that this is going to go far enough, because we would have liked to have had a general regulation for all buses in this area. i must also say that the commission's proposal was very, very good in terms of content, technical and engineering, but it was absolutely unacceptable from a logistical point of view. we have had 160 pages of detailed proposals from the commission tabled at first reading, our members have drawn up 110 amendments to them, and i think that this house, and ultimately the european level, is overburdened with this level of detail. we have even now - and this is the position which will be decided tomorrow - standardised the curvature of the rear wall of the bus to a maximum of 150 mm. this is a truly sensational achievement, in addition to the european unity cucumber!
- madam president, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! competition is what drives business, as we have seen in the automobile industry over the last 100 years. the fact that there were at least three strong production centers, the united states, europe and asia, did the cause and the business of all very, very well. the airbus is another good example of what can be achieved by exposing oneself to international competition, by not being satisfied from the outset that someone else is producing a good product that one can buy or even use for free, as in the case of gps. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, it's not bad that there's gps. of course, it's not bad, maybe even good, that in many cases it's available to users for free. but it is not good that there is essentially only one american system. the russian glonass does not seem to fall into the same category. we europeans have no real access rights of our own. the examples that have been given in the past have shown that in one or another case we suddenly lack navigation. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the commission's proposals. we need both, we need access and we need technological development. we cannot talk about a society of knowledge and learning and then not take the next logical step. we also need the many applications in the transport sector. i think that needs no further explanation. admittedly, there are also some vermutes on the subject of galileo. the financing issues are still not really resolved. the industry is still sitting behind the bush waiting for the public hands, and the public hands are invoking maastricht criteria, empty pockets and so on. i hope that sooner or later there will be a real public-private partnership on this issue. a final word on the delicate issue of dual use or civilian use only. i do not understand the blindness of some of the amendments. the world is not just good. september 11th showed this with all its cruelty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you both never lost your bearings on this subject.
- madam president! - what is it? on september 11th, the world changed, at least the world we knew. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we know that 11 percent of the electricity consumed - between 10 and 15 percent in other countries - in private households and public sectors - if you add that - contributes to the operation of power plants that are completely unnecessary, because you would have very different options in standby. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted. if we are thinking of the possibility of the first bombers flying towards afghanistan at this moment and of what a possible counter-attack might look like, we can see that even something as unspectacular as this regulation could bring us greater security here in europe, greater security also - if we think of the consequences of 11 september - in relation to the expected increase in oil prices. i therefore welcome the work done by eryl mcnally from this point of view. the second aspect which should also be taken into account is that we could create a stimulus to the economy which is given special consideration by the commission in the amendment to which my predecessor has already referred - that we should find a way not only to identify the good devices but also to remove the bad ones from the market as quickly as possible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. why is innovation so important in the european union? we all see that we have some problems in the economy at the moment. if we want the economy to improve again, we must take initiatives to increase employment, to reduce unemployment and to ensure that we can continue to live in prosperity in the future. i think you have to be able to judge that objectively. that is why we should use the method of benchmarking. i am very grateful to the commissioner for putting the innovation indicator very much in the spotlight here, because it gives a very good picture of the performance of the various countries. and of course the best practice method: to see where in the neighbouring countries, in the europe of the fifteen, work is done better than in one's own country. i've always found that in school, you can learn from the best in the class. we should not only remain in the house of europe, but also, and especially, look at the countries which are applying to join, to see what they are doing better than we are. the technical universities in particular have a wealth of knowledge and a great deal of innovative potential, but of course they also have a wealth of knowledge in america, japan, india and many other countries from which we could benefit. it is about innovation not only in the economic sphere, but also in the social, cultural and, above all, political sphere. we would like to see publicly funded research adjusted so that in future it is more market-oriented or, perhaps better put, more citizen-oriented. where are the services or products that the citizen wants and needs in the future? this market research is very important for us in the future, so that we can see what we should focus on in innovation policy. but innovation also means taking risks. we must therefore ensure that the necessary risk capital is also available. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we all know that basel ii may bring about a further restriction here too, particularly on smaller companies. i would like to make a correction here, but we have 18 million small and mediumsized enterprises in europe with less than 250 employees. we must pay particular attention to them, because they ultimately generate 80% of the tax revenue and employ two thirds of the workforce. innovation must start in the small units. we need subjective innovation, which means combining known techniques, rebuilding, rethinking where they can be used and where they can be improved. one of the key points, however, is lifelong continuing vocational training. the training measures in particular are becoming increasingly important, and we should therefore also focus on how best to impart knowledge. by e-learning, as the general term is, but i believe much more with e-entertainment. learning should be fun, learning should be interesting, learning should be curious, but learning should also be an adventure. in future, we should provide experiential content that focuses primarily on european content, by putting our european values, our european knowledge at the centre of the internet and in education and learning programmes, and by being prepared to enter into international competition. we also need new systems in schools. we need new methods of quality management for teachers and students. iso 9000 has already become a matter of course in the workplace. i would imagine that with these new processing techniques, there would be a lot of progress in schools. but we also need easier access to finance in companies. we need founders and the mentality to start businesses, and we need a smoother transition in the companies during the generational change. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the common agricultural policy. all three phases should be of concern in the future.
- madam president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. my compatriot paul rübig has again written a report with remarkable diligence and, by now, with a frighteningly long commitment, which contains almost everything that is good and right. you may be allowing me to do this because i'm questioning some of it. it was about: why is innovation so important in the european union? the rapporteur has given a broad answer to that. of course, you could also ask him, "what innovation?" what innovation is most needed at the moment? but the military technology to find osama bin laden quickly. is it the one we mean? is it the innovation in surveillance that we can track the sleepers in the future? or is it not necessary to define innovation accordingly? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. how do we get there? wouldn't it be an innovation to finally know how much is being spent on innovation? do you know? i have tried to raise funds for future investment in a large country, the federal republic of germany. we know what is spent on administration, we know what is invested in transfers, but when it comes to investments in the future, we do not know. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the question is, what kind of future? where are we going? and isn't the post-9/11 era an ideal time to question some of the things that were simply technology-obsessed and instead do research in the area of social innovation? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. questions for a good report. but again, congratulations to you, paul. (applause from the centre)
- madam president! - what is it? i have to inform you that a group of students i had invited this week - that is, tomorrow - has cancelled their visit. but i also heard that it's not just my group that's affected, but that this week, about 50% of the groups that were invited have canceled their visit. the victims or parents are afraid that the security measures in the building are not sufficient and that the children would be in danger when visiting parliament. i therefore ask you to inform the public fully that the security measures are sufficient. if this is not possible, consideration should also be given to the extent to which visits are not suspended generally. i would like to ask the commissioner to make a statement on the situation in the community, and i would like to ask him to make a statement on the situation in the community.
- mr president, mr commissioner, distinguished representatives of the council! i hope that the terrorist violence of 11 september has awakened the council, that is to say the ministers of the interior and justice, as well as the heads of state and government, to the realization that national resentment and animosity are misplaced in the fight against international terrorism. i regard all the decisions as positive. but we must expect the implementation to start soon. i also expect the union to finally realise the possibilities it already has and would have, that the member states finally fulfil their duty and supply the necessary information to the europol file in the hague and that the conventions against terrorism finally come into force. i also expect that europol will be equipped with the necessary staff, the necessary technology and that europol will be able to finally carry out a european investigation into terrorist networks and to make a joint investigation team a reality quickly. i expect the summit to launch new actions, such as intensive cooperation between europol and the services in the united states, the networking of the europol files, from olaf to schengen, to use them against terrorism, the creation of eurojust, as president poettering has just said, in close cooperation with europol, the extension of europol to the first pillar, the conferral of investigative powers on europol and the abandonment of the intergovernmental level in favour of the european level in narrowly defined areas of organised crime. in other words, by means of this cooperation in the field of security policy, europe has a very great opportunity to bring the added value of the european union closer to its citizens. we should seize this opportunity now and quickly!
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. european legislation should focus on fundamental issues and not be bogged down in pointless details. this is what commission president prodi wrote in a guest commentary in the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung on 27 july this year. i hear the message, but i don't have the faith. the miller report proves otherwise. it defines the obvious, for example, what a floor is, what is behind and in front, corridors must be designed to fit two coaxial cylinders. the whole thing is absurd, but - and i quote romano prodi - the citizens of europe will rightly ask themselves whether we are not dealing with more important matters. i therefore took part in this short vote on mr miller with the greatest displeasure. in some areas, the imagination of regulation is almost inexhaustible. but in the case of really sensitive legal issues, there is a lack of real political will. we are not going to bring the people closer to europe in any case!
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we have discussed this subject at great length today. i am beginning to feel that the debate is proving more and more clearly how right and important it was that the epp/ed group took the initiative in this request. we have 89 days until the euro notes and coins become a reality, and we are living alongside this challenge in uncertain times. at the same time, there are reactions in some governments - the names of individuals from governments who have not fully fulfilled their homework within the meaning of the stability and growth pact have been mentioned - to turning the wheels of the stability and growth pact. it is therefore important, especially in these uncertain times and 89 days before the euro, to convey clarity and reassurance to the market, but also to consumers. the stability and growth pact is not being shaken in europe. it is necessary to counteract the feeling that a weakening of the stability and growth pact could be used to counter the recession. it's simply not true that inflation can create jobs. it is not true that the stability and growth pact did not leave enough room for manoeuvre in difficult times. the member states with the most room for manoeuvre are those which have done most of their homework. so all i can say is, don't light the fire! uncertainty in an uncertain time is irresponsible, and the stability pact is the prerequisite for the stability of the euro.
- mr president, i have to go. madam president, you have dealt in particular with the question of public health. i would like to know how you see the division of powers between the un and the world health organization. what are your priorities here?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i should like to say a few words about both reports, but also about the rapporteur. i would never suggest to other members, regardless of their political group affiliation, that they are not guided by factual political reasons and justifications in their decisions and voting behaviour. there may be different ratios of majorities, but in the work of the economic and monetary committee there is - since i have been following it - a very objective, very oriented towards the objectives of the common economic and monetary policy climate between the groups, so that i cannot agree with the assumption that has been made here and would also like to reject it. i agree with you, however, that we must speak with one voice in the euro area, as in the field of security and foreign policy in europe, both externally and internally. after all - and this brings me to both reports - competition is increasingly global. the euro will be introduced in 89 days. it's already the second largest currency in the world. the coins and notes show the importance of this single european currency on the world market. it is a very important aspect and we must keep a very clear and strict eye on europe's external influence on the world market. this global competition, of course, requires not only the internal market and economic and monetary union but also the necessary coordination within the eurozone and within the european union. what's the matter? on the one hand, it is about coordination, so that the eurozone can have a strong internal market and make europe more competitive. on the other hand, i would ask you to understand that it is also a question of preserving freedom as the basis for competition within this agreed framework between the member states. we are not all convinced that coordination is a panacea in itself, because of course we also have to talk about where coordination starts. what mechanisms does coordination use and where are the limits to coordination? is the coordination restrictive of the market or is it supportive of the market? we must have this debate, and decisions cannot be taken under the guise of coordination. we therefore say yes to a strengthening of european debates in national parliaments, yes to coordination of the statistical office of the european communities and to a stronger networking with the national statistical institutes, yes to the mutual exchange of information in order to be able to fulfil the common tasks. but of course no to increasing bureaucracy, to new bodies, to additional administrative burdens under the guise of coordination. we need more efficiency and professionalism of the existing in the common interest. this does not necessarily mean that freedom and freedom of choice in the member states are being curtailed. we say no to advance information on tax collection or the use of tax revenue because we believe that there is no legal basis for this either. i have only highlighted these two aspects, which we have to discuss further. we will agree to the report, but not all the details are clear, what exactly we mean by this and what mechanisms are necessary. i would like to say one more thing to mrs berès: it is important that you have linked public finances to the reduction of inflation and thus to the assessment of the financial markets. we need to restructure public finances to provide more investment capital, and i therefore appeal to all those mentioned in the report to do their homework properly and not just to put in cosmetic measures!
- mr president, i too would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his report. my colleague mr skinner has already indicated that our group can withdraw most of the amendments if we can achieve clarity on a point which is particularly important to us and which also concerns consumer protection - and here the rapporteur has already indicated his agreement. i would also like to accept that members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, who have a special responsibility for financial services in particular, have a slightly different focus than some members of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. as a lawyer and a judge of the european court of justice, i often look at the eu treaties. maybe we shouldn't do this so much anymore. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. we all know that these regulations are causing a great deal of problems today. mr harbour has therefore also tabled a proposal on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market to amend the treaty. we shall be able to do so, if we are lucky, in 2006 at the latest. but until then, we have to figure out how to deal with this problem. i think we have found a very well balanced approach in the e-commerce directive. i was the shadow rapporteur for my group at the time and i am convinced that we have found a very well balanced solution based on a mixture of harmonization, the principle of the country of origin and individual exceptions, which we will probably have to pursue in other areas as well. i don't believe in the miracle weapon, the single patented recipe. we are now finally getting the council's common position on the distance selling of financial services. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we are more comfortable with pragmatic legislation than with debating principles in the dry dock.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to go. i would like to take this opportunity to reassure commissioner bolkestein. we have already announced in the two speeches on the chicken report that most of our amendments have already been withdrawn. we both stressed that. i believe that there are two amendments which remain. the commission will be able to live with this very well, and i hope the rapporteur will too. the amendments will be voted on tomorrow. but now for my own report. we know that in this house the agenda is changed very often. we're often more or less happy about it. this time it really makes sense - my report was moved so that the debate on the humanitarian situation in afghanistan could be held yesterday. this is even more important than the further refinements we want to achieve in the internal market. it allows us to have a kind of common debate today. the financial services sector, services in general and the report by mr radwan, which follows the debate, are very well matched. we are all agreed that services in general, as well as financial and information services, deserve our very special attention. they are now rightly called the key sector of the european economy. two thirds of europe's workforce is already in the service sector. it is above all the dynamism and the innovative power that make this sector so important for us to achieve the lisbon objective. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's approach of removing all barriers in a first phase, listing all the obstacles perceived by service providers and then proposing appropriate means in a second phase is certainly to be supported. but we shouldn't waste any time. there is now the means of infringement proceedings. in many cases, perhaps better information by public authorities, chambers and similar institutions about the current legal situation could help to remove one or other unjustified obstacle. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the call for the acceleration of certain legislative measures should be addressed primarily to the council. i have already mentioned that we are finally getting a common position on the distance selling of financial services. the council deliberations have taken a very long time. i hope that we can make some amends in parliament and get on with our work very quickly. the council has also been discussing for a long time the two directives on the situation of third-country nationals in the provision of services - workers on the one hand and self-employed persons on the other - where the introduction of a service card can make an important contribution to the achievement of freedom to provide services. i also regret that the commission itself no longer lists these measures as priority measures in this communication. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we shouldn't rule out an instrument. we will need further harmonization. we shall certainly be able to use the principle of the country of origin on the basis of harmonized, coordinated and largely approximated legal systems in our member states. in some remaining areas, article 50 of the ec treaty is also likely to continue to apply. i have a problem, however, with the automatic characterization of harmonization as over-regulation and with the use of the principle of the country of origin as a kind of miracle weapon, a patented recipe that will solve all problems at once. i'm afraid that's not the case. we must go through this arduous process of finding the appropriate instrument for each problem. i would like to point out once again that the e-commerce directive - as important as the country of origin principle is, and i fully agree with the content of this directive - does not apply the regulatory principle alone. the amendments tabled for tomorrow follow two principles: to maintain the freedom of choice of legal instruments, not to confine ourselves to a single instrument and not to make sectoral changes. this is also in line with the commission's intention to present a cross-sectoral document.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank the rapporteur and congratulate him on his report, and thank him for his cooperative work. the completion of the internal market in financial services, which provides a high level of consumer protection, is a priority for the community. the signing of a contract for a home loan is often the most important and largest financial commitment a consumer makes in his working life. it is therefore welcome that a voluntary agreement between banking and consumer associations on pre-contractual information obligations has been concluded at european level. the extension of the code and the register of mortgage lenders maintained by the commission to internet offers is also to be welcomed. in this context, and with a view to improving the comparability of consumer information, a narrow definition of a common annual percentage rate of charge for housing loans should be included in the standardised european information sheet, which should be established in a uniform manner throughout the community and be based on the consumer directive. this sheet shall be designed to contain all the data necessary to allow the credit to be recalculated. this is primarily the case for the method of forward and backward interest settlement. this is one of the most important consumer policy approaches in this sector. it is also desirable that parliament should be involved in the future in the negotiation of voluntary agreements, so that absolute transparency can be ensured in the drafting of the code. i hope that this example of a voluntary agreement between market participants and consumer associations will prove to be a success and can be applied to other areas of financial services. this can make a significant contribution to the rapid implementation of the internal market for financial services. however, since the consumer side has relatively few resources at its disposal, concrete action must follow in the event of non-compliance with the voluntary agreement. otherwise, it is to be feared that the instrument of voluntary agreement - a good instrument in itself - will not prove to be effective and that, in the end, only those who do not cause problems will adhere to this agreement. that alone would be too little and would not serve the cause.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think what has now characterized all the speeches in this debate is the conviction that investment in health is very sensible and an important way to achieve sustainable development and poverty reduction, both objectives of european development policy. it has been proven that those countries with a high level of health and with a lot of resources in this area have better development, also better economic development. some of us have said -- and i certainly emphasize this political demand -- that we need to convince the governments in these countries to spend more on this area of health care and education. it would be more than cynical not to point out that the structural adjustment programmes which these countries have to undertake in order to obtain loans and funds from the international financial institutions have just called for them to save in the areas of public welfare, health and education. one point which is very important to me is the inclusion of women in the development of programmes for contraception, but also in the development of reproductive health measures. women - and this is nothing new - are particularly vulnerable to poverty. but the rates of hiv/aids infection in southern africa also show that women are far more affected than men. i would like to conclude, and this is one of the hot topics, by saying something about the khanbhai report on the trips agreement. i believe that the european union must continue to help developing countries to take advantage of the opportunities already available under the trips agreement. of course, this is in the terms of the trips agreement, but it has not always been accepted by the pharmaceutical industry, as the case of south africa has shown. i also think that the call in paragraph 41 of the khanbhai report for a reduction in the term of protection of patents is necessary. i believe that when we talk about poverty reduction, we must also show concrete steps towards reforming the wto. otherwise we lose credibility. it is time, as several speakers before me have said, to take concrete steps. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the single economic and monetary union will be completed on 1 january 2002. the obligation and need for each member state to consolidate its public finances in a sustainable manner remains unavoidable. this is not only the commission report, but also the rapporteur herself. i agree with that 100%. i therefore welcome the fact that the report proposes to extend the current requirements of the stability and growth pact by setting new individual targets for each country. the consolidation of public budgets is a must for any government to create the necessary room for manoeuvre. as the representative of austria, i know what i'm talking about. despite all the difficulties and a huge debt mountain, the new government insists that the ambitious goal of achieving zero deficit must be maintained.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to add - although our assessment of the ccp may differ a little - that what is important now is to preserve peace. the peace that is still precarious in macedonia is because perhaps the confidence in the common solution, in the common state, in the common society has not yet been fully established. this is not surprising, because it takes more time than sitting at a negotiating table and negotiating. but it seems to me that when we look at the framework agreement, it is very important that the first priority be the non-use of force. this is a democracy, it doesn't need violence to change things. in a democracy it must be possible to talk about change, to negotiate and then to change legislation accordingly. the second is the integrity of the country. we do not need new frontiers, new states, which are drawn laboriously along ethnic lines, but which can never be drawn precisely. we just need to look at the capital skopje, how impossible it is. i never understood that, even if it was just a short-term thing, that both sides were talking about it, maybe bringing about a partition of the country. thirdly, it is a multiethnic state. many countries are multinational, but it is a multiethnic state with a significant albanian minority. i am sure that they cannot be treated as a minority of five or six per cent. she must have a stronger position. she's got a stronger position. we also think it is right that these minority rights should be extended in a way that goes beyond the normal. i think that a good compromise has been found. we'll be in skopje in the next few days. we will also insist that the necessary steps be taken. we cannot understand and accept this constant delay and threats that we will not vote, or that we may resort to violence again. in this sense, i hope that - as we can already speak today with a little more satisfaction about macedonia - this hesitation will have really given way to great satisfaction and acceptance in a month or two.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. anyone who visited uzbekistan during the soviet era was impressed by the magnificent islamic monuments, the markets that were full, especially in relation to what else was happening in the soviet union in the markets, and the cheerful mood. we are therefore all the more concerned that today, after the collapse of the soviet union, we find not a country in prosperity, in a state of recovery, but a country in a politically unpleasant situation, but one marked above all by hunger and environmental disasters. the intensive farming of cotton has certainly contributed to this environmental disaster. in addition, uzbekistan - as my predecessor has already mentioned - is in a situation where we have to fear the worst for the next weeks and months, also in connection with developments in afghanistan. the european union is called upon to help the whole region. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i am sure that commissioner nielson, who is the man to be in this debate today, is already thinking and preparing with his staff what to do now, but especially what to do in the event of further catastrophic situations, such as the flood of refugees from afghanistan. we are not called to preach only big sermons. it is not a question of a clash between civilizations, it is not a question of fighting islam, but of helping in very concrete ways in the coming weeks and months and showing the population that we really want to express our solidarity and our willingness to help, not just with words. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter is a major factor in the fact that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but political systems like the dictatorship in burma can only survive if there are enough states and private companies to keep the system alive through economic contacts. if you want to change the political system, you have to apply the corresponding economic pressure. the double standard of demanding democracy while at the same time trading intensively with that country should be ended. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we've just received word that a russian transport plane is docked over the black sea. it's not clear if it was an explosion or an erroneous firing by the ukrainian army. i think that before this vote begins, we should remember for a moment - whatever the cause of this tragic accident - those who died in this tragic accident.
mr president, i would just like to say that we will abstain on paragraphs 5 and 6 because my group believes that we should not be hasty in making a statement at a time when we expect a legislative proposal in a few days' time. we ask for your understanding that we abstain on paragraphs 5 and 6.
- mr president, i have to go. i am very grateful to the commission for its very rapid response to a matter of great concern to the people of europe at the moment, with today's statement. i also welcome the commission's explicit reference to all areas of particular risk, including in particular industrial plants and nuclear power stations, as called for in the european parliament's resolution on the events of 11 september, following our austrian initiative. we know that some nuclear power stations in europe have been equipped to withstand the impact of at least smaller aircraft. does the commission have an overview of which nuclear power stations are not covered by this directive and what is being done at european level to increase safeguards, at least for these nuclear power stations, but also for all the others? we know that no nuclear power plant is completely safe and that some are not up to date in other safety-related aspects. it would be all the more surprising if there were actually a letter from commissioner verheugen confirming the safety of the temelin nuclear power station. since this statement would contradict all the findings of international experts on temelin, i cannot believe that this declaration of safety was actually made by mr verheugen. i therefore ask the commission to forward this letter to the czech and austrian governments to the european parliament. we have been very active on this issue and i think parliament has earned it, even if the commission takes the opposite view.
- mr president, i have to go. the large number of currency crises and the negative consequences for the world economy as a whole which they have caused require joint action. some believe that a tax on global financial transactions could prevent future financial crises. i am personally pleased that this view is not shared by many in the economic and monetary committee. the introduction of the tobacco tax will not, in my view, prevent financial crises. capital should go where it is most useful, that is, it should be invested in new markets, developing countries and so on. this is supposed to produce growth. if we now make capital movements expensive, restrict and regulate them, we will only be countering them. the introduction would only make sense if it could be carried out internationally without any gaps. this does not seem possible, so that this tax only creates additional burdens, bureaucracy, etc., and cannot achieve the real objective of limiting financial crises.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. it's been said before. i have four areas i'd like to cut short. firstly, we want to make the international monetary system more stable, because financial stability is, among other things, a public good, an economic prerequisite for growth and employment, and social justice, that is to say, a moral obligation. secondly, we are not just calling for a reform of the imf, we are calling for a moral obligation on the part of the public authorities to strike the optimum balance between the free play of markets and the need to regulate them in accordance with the basic principle of the eco-social market economy, and to ensure a balance between the public and private sectors in public rescues in the event of crises. we call on the member states to pursue economic policies geared to growth and employment and we call for debt relief linked to appropriate economic policy conditions. third, we start with ourselves. the euro is a currency of stability, even in the light of the world. the response of the fed and the ecb after 9/11 was a stability response to the crisis. the stability and growth pact is a european response. the commission and the european parliament have voted in favour of the tobin tax, and the liège decisions include measures to correct globalisation. fourthly, we oppose measures which would slow down economic growth and create uncertainty for all market players by ideologically motivated attempts to tighten the stability pact or to introduce the tobin tax alone. i therefore also regret that the socialist group's amendment no 10 reinterprets the correct decision of liège by inserting the tobin tax. if you can eliminate this misinterpretation, we'll meet in liège.
- mr president, i have to go. we all want to see a higher level of employment, that is, full employment. but how? there are considerable differences in the way we want to achieve this. many of them are simply advocating that we take additional measures for the workers. but that alone cannot be effective. we must certainly take measures on the part of both the employer and the employee. but this also means that we must work together to ensure that the economic conditions for our small and medium-sized enterprises are improved in a sustainable way. their businesses employ two thirds of all european workers. their performance needs to be improved, including by facilitating access to additional and cheaper funding and by significantly reducing the tax burden.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the budget again allocated substantial funds to the planned enlargement. we must not forget the 23 border regions which are particularly - and negatively - affected by the accession of these countries. as a member of parliament for one of these regions, carinthia, i am disappointed. i regret that the commission, the council and the committee on budgets do not give these regions sufficient support by providing sufficient funds in the budget. it is a dangerous game played with the feelings of the people when funds are cut for these regions. it is not excluded that the population of these regions, with the predominant disadvantages which are also to be feared, will oppose enlargement and thus jeopardise the overall project.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank mr costa neves very warmly for his understanding, because he has really dealt with these matters that are being discussed here with great care and interest. i am the deputy chairman of the slovak delegation, and we were in slovakia last week. the programme included a visit to the green border with ukraine near kosice. we found that a very large number of refugees, especially from afghanistan, are crossing the border, probably not only for peaceful purposes, but it is estimated that 10 to 30 percent may also be planning other activities, such as military or terrorist activities. i would therefore urge the commission and the council to do everything possible to ensure the security of the external borders, in particular to use the pre-accession aid framework immediately to provide the necessary equipment, particularly at the borders of the applicant countries with non-eu countries. this is about simple equipment, like night vision devices and vehicles, so that these borders could be better guarded from now on. secondly, we in the committee have dealt very intensively with the problems of phare aid and the toth case. the committee decided on both sides, the slovak and the european, that the funds should not be put into the reserve. in slovakia the necessary consequences have been drawn. the deputy prime minister responsible has resigned, which means the political consequences have been drawn. the responsible officer and director have also resigned a new one has been appointed and in addition, the parliament has now in recent days passed a new law on financial control and internal audit. so we shall certainly take these funds out of reserve until the second reading.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would first like to pay a compliment to my colleague mrs rühle. it seems to have had the right instinct in the spring to postpone this discharge for the european development fund. the committee on budgetary control had not received any concrete information on the follow-up to the fraud cases which were discovered during 1999. we now know with certainty what we had only been able to suspect until now, namely that the commission, and also the olaf fraud prevention office, can only make very small mistakes. for example, in the case of côte d'ivoire, fraud in the health sector was uncovered in 1998/99. medical equipment, such as disposable syringes and baby scales, had been charged for many years at multiples of their actual value. the damage was estimated at some eur 27.4 million. when the case became known, the newly appointed commission said that this money must of course be repaid. we now know that the money has not been returned to the european development fund. the reason according to the commission : it was not legally possible to recover the funds! i do not want to go into details here, but it is clear how difficult it is to take corrective action once the funds have been transferred. in addition, olaf does not have the same control powers in the acp states as it does in the member states of the union, not to mention the fact that it simply lacks the staff to launch a comprehensive anti-fraud campaign from brussels. it is therefore crucial that we exert pressure to improve the protection of public funds in general in the recipient countries. countries that fail to protect their own taxpayers' money from fraud, corruption and waste will also be unable to protect eu funds effectively. for the commission, however, this also means that it strengthens its presence in the beneficiary countries - here i agree with the rapporteur in the committee - not only by a greater number of officials in the delegation, but also by giving the delegation more authority on the ground. it should not be possible to circumvent this delegation on the ground by concluding agreements directly with brussels. i would like to congratulate mrs rühle on this report, and we shall be happy to approve it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was a little surprised by the commissioner's announcement that we had gotten the money back from the ivory coast. i would be very grateful to the commissioner, with or without a framework agreement, if he could tell me - also in writing - where the accounts are so that we can understand them.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! the decision of the ghent council to provide emergency humanitarian aid of eur 320 million is to be extremely welcomed. the same applies to european solidarity in the fight against international terrorism. the next step is to bring about a rapid cessation of hostilities, especially to protect the afghan people. the world is still reeling from the attacks in new york and washington. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. first, the full investigation of the background to these crimes and the publication of the results. otherwise, there is a danger that the attacks will be the subject of a legend which could poison the minds of many people. this would be a lasting victory for terrorism. secondly, an important prerequisite for the future reconstruction of afghanistan is the knowledge of what has happened in that country over the last 25 years. since we know relatively little about this period, i propose that we set up a group in this parliament to study this region and to produce a comprehensive documentation of the last three decades in this country. we are not going to be able to do that, and i am not going to be able to do that.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! the informal summit in ghent brought two positive aspects, namely agreement in principle on a convention to prepare a constitutional treaty and the final technical guidelines for the euro. in other circumstances, not overshadowed by terrorism, this would have been a reason to look positively to the future of europe. but we are faced with a situation in which we are asking ourselves whether the european union's integration power with the euro has already been exhausted. a common currency, a common foreign and defence policy would give the union the credibility and the identity that we so often lack. but it is precisely in the field of foreign and security policy that the summit in ghent has brought us back to the facts. bilateralism, if you will, the undeclared enhanced cooperation, only exposed the weaknesses which still limit the european union's effectiveness externally. if we look at the international analyses after the meeting in ghent, the shock of the terrorist attacks on the united states has revealed the factionalism within the european union. this is not only a reaction to the behaviour of the united states, which prefers to negotiate and act directly with governments, but it is also the consequence of the inherent military weakness of european security and defence policy, where there is a great gap between aspiration and reality. it is no secret that there are doubts as to whether the european rapid response force of 60 000 men will be formed by the scheduled date of 2003. the european union needs a boost in energy, not only to make its citizens more attached to it, but above all to fulfil its responsibilities in europe itself and as a partner of the united states. the enlargement process must be seen in this light, as must the post-nice order, with the participation of a convention which should not be arbitrary but, as the european parliament recommends, should develop a coherent basis for decision-making on a constitutional treaty. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. we need more, not less, international cooperation, as has been called for. we need legal certainty and predictability of the framework conditions, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. the aim must be to achieve increased prosperity for citizens through world trade. but we must not forget that europe has 18 million small businesses, which ultimately employ two thirds of the workforce. this means that wages are paid primarily by small and mediumsized enterprises. 60% of gdp and - important to us politicians - 80% of taxes come from small businesses. the wto should therefore also remember that we are not only involving and integrating the ilo in this process and thinking about how we can shape it better, but in particular putting social dialogue and the social partners at the centre. the everything but arms initiative should not have the clause 'everything but small and medium sized enterprises', but rather 'everything for small and medium sized enterprises'. the economy is at the heart of this discussion, and we should not forget that in the whole wto debate. trips for short. we should think in particular of compulsory licences and, above all, of development aid, of tenders and of ensuring that the states also receive medicines of the necessary quality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the wto rules are applied in a fair and transparent manner. i would like to ask you how these companies are getting their rights back. how can they be harmed by an international agreement which is not in accordance with the law of the country concerned? the last point: we must bring more transparency and closer ties to the people in these areas. i therefore welcome the fact that president neyts will be working to ensure that the european parliament and the parliaments of the world will lead to more transparency and, i believe, ultimately to more prosperity in the world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report by mr brok, as always very carefully drafted, comes at the right time, at a time when we need a guideline for the common foreign and security policy. for us, the most important thing is that we should not be - and i say this deliberately - subject to the dictates of a board of directors, which determines policy, not even the appearance of it. the common position also - and i support mr brok - is that the functions of a high commissioner must be combined with those of the commissioner responsible. the common position also means that we will have a european union rapid reaction force as soon as possible. the european policy must be european by clearly defining european objectives, and this means that we are in solidarity with the united states of america, but also insist that solidarity is not a one-way street. if i have to read, at this very moment, that the united states of america continues to reject the international criminal court, and that there are even discussions in congress about whether those who cooperate with the court should be sanctioned, then that is not what i mean by developing a policy of solidarity between the european union and the united states. solidarity with the united states must also mean that we draw the attention of the united states to the need to pursue a common policy in a world community. the third and final point: if we conclude this anti-terrorist alliance, which we must conclude, which we should conclude, we will often find ourselves in contradiction, in conflict between strategic considerations on the one hand and human rights considerations on the other. we must not be mistaken about this: anyone who wants to have an alliance - and i want to have this - with the soviet union, with russia, with china, with the islamic states, will find themselves in this contradiction again and again. we should only be clear about the fact that we must also state clearly and clearly to our own people that this contradiction exists. we must pursue both goals. we must never renounce the medium and long-term promotion of human rights, in all the strategic alliances we have to make, because whoever supports the shahs of today will get the ayatollah khomeini of tomorrow. this can happen if we are not careful and at the same time put the question of human rights at the centre of our foreign policy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to congratulate mr lamassoure on his report. it's a very good report. some people think it's too soft. i do not think he is too soft, he only speaks a language that leaves the dialogue with turkey open, and we want to enter into that dialogue. but there are some hard points that we must discuss with turkey, certainly still, particularly on the question of human rights. it has been mentioned that people are in prison who should not be there, most notably leyla zana. turkey could and should bring about a release directly, particularly on the basis of decisions of the european courts of justice. there is also a lot to be done on the question of kurdish rights. it is clear that the language as now made possible by constitutional amendments should be used in the public media as soon as possible. the lifting of the state of emergency in the provinces where it is still in force could be relatively rapid. the constitutional amendments that turkey has made are positive steps. we certainly want to take note of that. but now it is first of all a question of eliminating the additional conditions that are still attached to it - for example, the death penalty - and of course it is a question of implementing the constitutional amendments. it is turkey's great task to do this in the near future. i would like to return to a thought i had when i had the honour of writing a report for this parliament, namely to draw up a kind of road map or timetable, and that is why we will also be proposing tomorrow that turkey itself should present next year a timetable of how it intends to meet the political criteria of copenhagen. the fulfilment of this political criterion is the precondition for our being able to negotiate with turkey. that is the whole point of the exercise we are undertaking here with this report. i would also like to mention two points which remain very important for the european union's relations with turkey. on the one hand, this helps to shape an active and efficient foreign security policy. we know that in this case this would also require the use of nato resources, and that is what turkey is blocking. turkey must know that this is to its own detriment. the last problem is the cyprus problem. i would like to make it quite clear again that a solution to the cyprus problem is important, firstly, for the turkish population in cyprus, and secondly, certainly also for the greek population in cyprus, for the whole of europe and for turkey itself. turkey just hasn't seen it yet. i'll say what i've always said: turkey's path to the european union is through cyprus. helping to resolve the cyprus problem is not a prerequisite for our accepting cyprus into the european union, but it would provide turkey with a prerequisite for us to enter into serious discussions on turkey's membership of the european union.
mr president, i would like to table an oral amendment, in agreement with the rapporteur. i have only the english text with me now. it should read: "insists on the immediate abolition of the death penalty"... instead of "reiterates its call for the immediate abolition of the death penalty"...
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have the following proposal to find a compromise, which is being put forward in cooperation with and with the agreement of the rapporteur. it should read: 'urges turkey to propose in the coming year a precise timetable ...', so we would add: 'in the coming year'.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to expressly welcome the commission's proposal to reform the market organization for sheepmeat and goatmeat. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would also like to thank our rapporteur very warmly for his work. i think that one of the most important points is the reorganization of the premiums. the introduction of a flat-rate premium is a great step forward. but i would stress that the amount proposed by the commission is far too low. this premium must also be an incentive for sheep and goat farmers, and it is just 30 euros and not less. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the premium is not exceeded. because there is no way to justify a differentiation. i also think that the additional premium of 9 euros for ewe and goat mother is justified, particularly in the difficult conditions in the less-favoured areas. the trend in beef and sheepmeat prices is generally parallel, which does not justify any difference in the way the two sectors are treated in the formulation of premiums. on the contrary, in austria, as in many other european countries, there is a shortage of sheepmeat. if we do not create reasonable conditions and guarantees for the existence of this sector, we will push sheep and goat farmers into other sectors, such as beef, or they will stop production altogether. such a policy would be unwise. in conclusion, i would say that sheep and goat farming should be encouraged not only in those areas where there is no alternative but also in those where sheep and goat farming is a traditional production. i therefore hope, mr president, that the commission and the council will follow these sensible proposals from the committee on agriculture and rural development.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the opening of the mont blanc tunnel is a european event, a joyous european event, just as the accident in the st. gotthard tunnel is a tragic, sad european event. traffic knows no bounds. it makes no difference whether you are a member of the european union or not. we need transport that links the regions of europe, but also transport that respects the environment. i support the commission's approach, which also sees the question of tunnel safety in the overall context of transport policy, but also of environmental policy. the commissioner mentioned, for example, the transport protocol to the alpine convention. i wonder only - the council is not here - where are the ministers who signed it? because it's about time that governments started doing something about it. secondly, the commissioner has spoken of moving from road to rail wherever possible and sensible. here too, a number of european governments - including the austrian government - are lax in their implementation. the plans are good. but you also have to provide the appropriate financial resources to make the necessary arrangements. i also know that in many countries the railway would have the capacity to transport even more goods than are currently transported by rail. the white paper which has been mentioned and which the vice-president of the commission has presented is a very positive and important step in the restructuring of transport policy. this is very much supported by our group and i hope that the proposed amendment to the eurovignette regulation and the road costs directive will be tabled in good time so that we can discuss the new version of the eurovignette very soon. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have discussed this very often and very much, and here we could really start a rapid procedure. it is certainly true that it is not only a question of the overall transport policy, but also of the level of safety. we welcome the commission's intention to impose safety standards in this area. because we all suffer when we drive in unsafe tunnels. a number of things were mentioned. i would like to add this: the question of working time regulation, particularly for truck drivers, is also an important aspect, as is control, because the best regulation we adopt is useless if these things are not controlled. the individual countries are called upon to do so again. it is clear to me and my group that this is not a matter of playing one against the other. france, italy, germany, austria, but also all the other eu countries have a right to free movement of goods. but the people of the alpine regions also have a right to a healthy environment. if the next year is declared the year of the mountains by the un, some may laugh, and some may laugh. but in reality it is high time, particularly in the alps and the pyrenees, that special attention was paid to the environmental situation. i should like to say that i am sorry, mr president, and i apologize to the commissioner. i am being rude and i am about to leave the chamber because i want to go to romania for the parliament. but we are nevertheless committed to these principles of a truly environmentally friendly transport policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the tragic accidents of recent times have once again reminded us all that we have a lot of catching up to do, especially in road transport, especially in terms of the development of the infrastructure for combined transport. i do not want to prolong the debate unnecessarily, but i would like to ask a very open question: where will traffic go if the montblanc tunnel, the st. gotthardt tunnel and the st. bernhardt tunnel are closed? i am very much afraid - and so are the people of austria and the entire alpine region - that this traffic will then cross the brenner and that we will have major problems in this very sensitive region of the alps, not only in north and south tyrol but also in trentino. i therefore urge that this issue be tackled in a really forward-looking way, because it is not just a matter of road safety, but also a matter of the living space of many people.
- mr president, i have to go. what is transparency? the transparency would be guaranteed, it could and should be argued, if all interested eu citizens were granted access to as many documents of the european institutions as possible and if the public nature of council meetings were also guaranteed. this is the basic idea behind the european transparency initiative, which was launched by a number of parliamentarians and public figures throughout europe and which is only just beginning to take effect on the basis of the current regulation 1049/2001 and the corresponding amendments which we are now making here in parliament. how much transparency do we want? there are still differences of opinion. i personally would like the european transparency formula to be a mixture of the american and the swedish formula, i.e. unlimited access to almost everything, including no register, and the possibility of really controlling and constantly reviewing our activities in parliament, but also, and especially, where the really important decisions are taken, i.e. in the council. unfortunately, there is not yet a majority in this parliament. it is also possible to argue that the european public, in its diversity, is not yet ready. of course, it can be argued that if an italian or an austrian citizen writes a letter to one of the eu institutions, which is then immediately included in a public register, this is something that he did not expect and he would behave differently, whereas for a swede this would be a matter of course. i think we must continue along this path, especially now, when it is a question of defining european values, also in the light of current events in the world. transparency is a key part of that. what we have now is a step in that direction. the decision-making process in the committee on constitutional affairs has already been mentioned. i would like to see amendment no 15 from the green group substantially more clearly justified than it has been so far. i personally would have no problem with submitting the documents required for budgetary control or with what is required at the end. but if it's against itself, it's not. on amendment no 17, my colleague mr cashman has already said the same thing. amendment no 14 is also fully supported by our group. that's an improvement. the abolition of the limitation to 'permanent' committees in the first section of amendment no 15 is also welcome. we must all be aware that without transparency there can be no democracy. until then, we have a good chunk of work to do.
- mr president, i have to go. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report. it is a clear indication of how much the success of a product - in this case, a film - depends on marketing and advertising. if american manufacturers allocate 30% of their budget to marketing, it is not surprising that european products are in direct competition for customers, when they themselves spend only 3 to 6% of their budget on marketing. the european film producers must therefore simply do more to market their products themselves. we have the right to demand that of them as taxpayers. it would even be conceivable to make government subsidies for follow-up projects dependent on the filmmakers' efforts to reach their audiences. but more subsidies alone cannot be the answer. too much money has been spent in the past on movies that never reached their audiences. austria allocates more than 30 million euros a year to film promotion. taking into account the number of spectators, each cinema ticket for an austrian film was subsidised by more than eur 1 000. that can't be the goal of a government-sponsored film.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i too would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for this initiative, as all my colleagues have done, and also the committee on culture, which has given such strong support to my colleague's initiative. as you may know, the annual meeting of european cinema began here in strasbourg last weekend and is still going on today and tomorrow. tomorrow, the final panel will be held on our premises. there was a lot of discussion, a lot of problems to be solved: what is the problem, why is there no european single market? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we have a european single market, but we don't have the acceptance that this commodity film can really circulate. it's not gonna work. we still have a national logic in film funding. the same is true of the success of a film: if it has not been a success at the domestic box office, it will not be successful internationally. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it would be wrong to ask the production team to go in with more risk. there are no independent producers. we must first of all promote this market economically, we must promote this market economically so that it can be created. one of the demands that the committee on culture has made on many occasions would be appropriate here again. we must try to make economic aid, whether it comes from large or small enterprises, tax deductible. we will support this report not just out of sentiment but out of conviction.
- mr president, i have to go. mr maat, your report is an important instrument for thinking globally and acting more locally in agricultural and environmental policy. the report is fully worthy of support, as it does not compromise on the welfare of animals and once again emphatically highlights the long-known shortcomings. the report is particularly awaited since the vote in the plenary, which abolished the budget for the export refund regulation. the fact that this point has been agreed naturally gives hope that the whole of the maat report will be adopted, especially since it has made the mistakes of the past in the transport policy of animals particularly obvious. i would like to point out a few things, but time is short. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the same should apply to sanctions against member states. we all know the problems, and the european public is rightly sharply critical of the european institutions and the 15 governments. this report is also particularly important in the light of enlargement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. money is not everything, but the way you handle money is how you tell whether a policy is successful or not. that is a quote from the former president of the court of auditors, bernhard friedmann, and if that quote is taken as the benchmark for this year's report, then one has to ask how successful the union's policy is de facto. this report summarises what we already know from many others: the financial and management management of the use of funds continue to require reform. in some areas, the abuses are so dramatic that one can assume that financial error has a system. the commission's attitude of attributing the irregularities and shortcomings discovered mainly to the member states is unacceptable. of course, the member states must not shirk their responsibilities either. if there are irregularities or fraud in the member states, the commission must take action. the recovery rate, i.e. the financial reimbursement of the funds lost, is not satisfactory. it is not acceptable that member states should undermine the fight against fraud by lax controls and then delay the recovery of funds. the commission has the ultimate political responsibility for the creation of the eu budget and is therefore also responsible for the efficiency of its allocation and control. the commission's replies to last year's report show, among other things, that new systems are being introduced which will make it easier to monitor the efficiency of national vat collection. however, given that there have also been significant shortcomings in this area, the question arises as to the success of these control mechanisms. i thank the court of auditors for its successful work of information and i call on the commission to continue to take action to reform the structures so that mismanagement and financial error are a thing of the past.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission's budgetary authority has been given a number of powers, but it is not the commission's responsibility to make the necessary adjustments. i object to the fact that we are slowly beginning to declare the abnormality here to be the normality. we might be able to do that here, but we certainly can't do that outside this room. if this declaration of reliability is weak in the proceedings, i expect the court to make a statement to that effect. the commission's budget is a very important instrument for the development of the community. secondly, commissioner, i am very grateful to you for having drawn the link between today's debate by the commission on the progress reports on enlargement and the court of auditors' report. the court of auditors tells us that we actually had to experience a zero-spending policy in 2000 with the new pre-accession instruments. this means that we have actually - and the commission is talking about the fact that the first candidate countries should be in the union in 2004 - spent 20% of the period in the financial area. this will of course mean making additional efforts in the coming years to implement the pre-accession instruments accordingly. thirdly, a comment on olaf. i was surprised, mr president karlsson, that your report more or less takes the view that parliament has affected the independence of olaf by introducing a reserve in the establishment of olaf. we were forced to do so after the commission, as you know, simply transferred all uclaf staff to olaf and the case seemed to have been closed for them, and especially after we had to learn from the olaf monitoring committee, which you so highly regarded, that the independence of this office is indeed in danger. we now have a new problem, after we have had discussions with the commission - and i thank mrs schreyer specifically for that. i would say, mrs schreyer, that the commission should also take action. at the moment, one of the key positions in the new olaf is being blocked by the new berlusconi government. i would be very grateful if we could work together on this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the hot-button issue in this text is, of course, the balance between legally recognised confidentiality obligations on the one hand and the wording of reporting obligations to combat money laundering. the money laundering directive imposes a number of obligations on credit and financial institutions which have led to money launderers simply moving to other sectors, and the directive's scope is to be extended to a number of other professions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information is not disclosed to third parties. mr rothley is right that the text is a violation of the principle of nemo tenetur se ipsum accusare. but that is precisely the compromise we think is still viable, and we believe that the balance between professional secrecy on the one hand and the interests of law enforcement on the other hand is acceptably settled, which is why we will agree.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rapporteur deserves our congratulations and our thanks. we have succeeded in preventing the council and commission from attacking the fundamental rights and the right of defence of the european citizens. it is not acceptable that lawyers, solicitors, tax advisers and notaries simply become prosecutors. it is also clear that the fight to uphold the rights of the defence is not over. the directive still needs to be implemented at national level and we must continue to work to ensure that it is not interpreted narrowly and that citizens' fundamental rights and rights of defence are not curtailed. but i can also assure you that i will work with the relevant austrian government departments to ensure that this does not happen.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by raising a point of criticism because, although the rapporteur has explained to us in committee the urgency of the procedure, and i understand that, i believe that there should not be such 'hush' procedures in principle, because they could also become 'pfusch' procedures. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i fully agree with the content of the report, because harmonization of community law standards, also in relation to smes, is an essential necessity for increasing legal certainty in crossborder contracts, especially in the context of future enlargement of the union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but i also believe - and mr maccormick has also mentioned this - that the limits to the approximation of civil and commercial law are drawn by the growing traditions of the legal systems of the member states and that disregard for these traditions would inevitably achieve the opposite of what we must strive for. i think that the problems have been sufficiently resolved and that it is possible to achieve this objective, and we will agree to that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in a world of change and growing, indeed increasingly fierce, global competition, services of general interest are one of the essential foundations of the european social model. citizens, as well as businesses, now require the widespread availability of such a wide range of high quality services at affordable prices. the provision of public services is understood as activities carried out in the general interest and therefore linked by the public authorities to specific public service obligations or facilities. such services make a significant contribution to improving the quality of life of citizens and are therefore an essential part of social, human and geographical cohesion in the european union. the principle of subsidiarity clarifies the responsibilities of regional and national design. the treaty of amsterdam and the charter of fundamental rights have enshrined the importance of the common good for europe. it was therefore important for me, as president of the austrian aid foundation, to clarify my position with the major social and health organizations, the red cross, caritas, the aid organization, the sports federations, the fire brigades, the municipalities and cities. it was also important to me to see that the specific rural area is involved, that the enlargement candidates are involved and that the importance of the non-profit organisation for the provision of services is clearly expressed. today's report contributes to a more humane everyday life.
in writing. -the shortcomings of the present agricultural policy are obvious. the present system only encourages the transport of animals. in some ways, this trade is really absurd. spain, for example, imports sheep for slaughter from the united kingdom, even though it also exports sheep for slaughter in greece. the aim must be to put an end to the encouragement of the transport of live animals. in the long run, the promotion of this practice by european funds is not justifiable. the only way to put an end to the transport of live animals over long distances is to regionalise agricultural policy. the slogan must be to produce within a given market for a given market. in addition, the risk of spreading animal diseases could be effectively controlled in this way.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european transport policy is not a real page in the annals of the european union. too little, too late, not really consistent, are just some of the attributes with which the european union's policies have been characterized and criticized. the present commission is trying to counter this with a very determined approach. the draft regulation on local public transport is part of the package of texts which, although late, are intended to correct some of the mistakes of the past. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the internal market philosophy to the transport sector. controlled competition, not full liberalization and certainly not privatization at any cost was the order of the day. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let us be clear: consensus on all points concerning the quality of transport for consumers, consensus also where high safety, social and environmental standards are required. but all this can and should be demanded and implemented with the terms of the tender. we do not need the continuation of real and quasi-monopoles. a final word on the subject of subsidiarity. the autonomy of the municipalities is not served by declaring local public transport a res extra commertium, according to the motto that everyone should do what and how he pleases. unfortunately, this is not in the interests of the citizens, because it is they who ultimately have to pay for all this twice, as consumers and as taxpayers. therefore, controlled competition and high standards also for local public transport!
madam president, i have three brief questions. the first question, mr verheugen, is whether you have announced that there will be additional funds or an additional programme for the modernisation and adaptation of administrative activities. i wonder if this is now the financial resources that are being withdrawn from other programmes for these countries that are being anticipated? maybe you could define that a little bit more. secondly, commissioner, the court of auditors report we have discussed today criticises the commission for not having set criteria for its programmes to upgrade nuclear installations, i.e. to increase reactor safety. are you prepared to consider that the commission does not draw up criteria, that is to say, general criteria, but only criteria for the review of measures to increase reactor safety, which are taken with the support of commission funds? the third question, the cyprus-turkey question, has already been briefly dealt with here. the turkish prime minister has recently made statements, which may be new, but in the form that in the event of this case it would mean the annexation of the northern part of cyprus. is there an official, clear and unambiguous answer from the commission?
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the safety of nuclear installations is a european problem and above all an environmental issue. finally, security is also a european added value. could you imagine encouraging the creation of a green paper on reactor safety or nuclear power plants, so that in the future this can be assessed as objectively as possible?
the commission has already done so. the green paper on the security of energy supply is generally to be welcomed. it deals with an acute problem directly linked to the largely unpredictable nature of world politics. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the reasons are well known. a study commissioned by the european parliament has just been completed, which concludes that the la hague and sellafield reprocessing plants will emit as much radioactivity in seven decades as was released in the chernobyl accident. the final storage is also not solved. nuclear fusion is not the answer. it is therefore more sensible to invest in safe renewable energy sources than in nuclear fusion, which can produce results in 100 years at best.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the water supply is not affected by the pollution of the environment. by 2010, at the latest, member states shall ensure that water-pricing policies provide appropriate incentives for users to use water resources efficiently, taking into account the social, environmental and economic impacts of cost recovery and the geographical and climatic characteristics of the region concerned. i have therefore tried to make it clear in my report that the use of our water resources must be maintained in the long term, i.e. also for future generations, that the best practices for maintaining water quality and providing the population with clean drinking water should be applied, but that new ways may also be explored. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's energy policy. the introduction of business management instruments, the involvement of private companies, but also a carefully carried out optimisation of the operational structures in the field of water services should be possible. i personally say very clearly no to the liberalization of water supply and waste water, but i say yes to the fact that each country can use its water as its people wish. i am in favour of solidarity in the use of water within europe, but no member state should be forced to make its water available free of charge to another member state under this title. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's really beautiful to repeat things that are important and right over and over again. it is also very difficult to say anything against things that are right and important, especially when they have long been part of legislation, of a directive, namely the water framework directive. but the question is whether such an approach is sensible. but since this is not a matter of legislation and we are only here to draw up guidelines, i would say that is all. i am sorry to hear that. it is the one which condemns a particular member state, so to speak, for a project which is really a purely national project, where the corresponding environmental impact assessment has not yet been carried out and where, if european union funds are to be given, the laws of the european union must of course be observed. i would be very happy not to set an ugly precedent here if this amendment were not to be accepted. i think the commission document is very good. i also think it is good that, unlike in many member states, parliament is also entitled to be consulted when implementing a law. i hope that the commission and the council will see in parliament's opinion a support for their efforts. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to make four points. first, the insurance business is a trust business. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it must therefore be said today that the absolute majority of all sellers, of all intermediaries, work correctly, otherwise the insurance industry would not flourish and justify the trust of customers. secondly, i would like to begin by thanking all the people who work here. thirdly, there are already in many countries strict advisory and information obligations, which are also imposed on intermediaries by the insurance act and the banking act. insurance and credit institutions are subject to prudential and reporting requirements and to clear creditworthiness rules. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. in addition to what has already been said, in motions for resolutions 57, 58, 59 my colleagues and i tabled three further amendments, in which we want, firstly, to leave it to the member states to decide whether they exempt insurance intermediaries for industrial risks from the requirements of the directive, secondly, to make the conclusion of the contract the end of the conciliation procedure, as is customary, and thirdly, to make a clearer distinction between main and secondary insurance intermediaries.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i welcome in principle the commission's proposal for a sixth research programme, particularly the pan-european coordination and the emphasis on basic research. two things worry me. firstly, in defining the basic ethical principles, the minds of this house are divided between the absolute prohibition of embryonic stem cell research on the one hand and its authorization on the other. the decision as to where to draw the line between a mere mass of cells and a human life will probably be one for each individual to make. this is a far-reaching decision of conscience. i would point out, however, that in some member states, including austria, embryonic stem cell research is prohibited. it is not acceptable that eu funds are used to fund research in one member state that is prohibited in another. secondly, the euratom programme provides for research funding of 1.2 billion. more than two thirds of this is spent on nuclear research. security matters are only a secondary concern. i believe that more research into non-nuclear energy sources is essential. i miss that approach.
- mr president, i have to go. since the terrorist attacks of 11 september at the latest, we have to be aware that global crises have global consequences and that the european union can no longer afford to be eurocentric. this does not mean that we are putting the enlargement of the eu and the stabilisation of the balkans into perspective, it just means that the rio process must not suffer the same fate as the barcelona process or the mediterranean policy. it should not take a terrorist attack to pay due attention to relations with these peripheral regions of europe and the latin american region, which are historically and demographically linked to europeans. the report by mr salafranca, drawn up on the initiative of the european parliament, comes just in time for the rio successor summit in madrid in may next year. we need a strategy and a reassessment of our latin american policy at all levels to combat poverty on this continent, to consolidate democracy, to combat organized crime and drug trafficking and, ultimately, to safeguard our economic interests. the conclusion of the free trade agreement with mexico has had a positive impact on the presence of the european economy in that country, to the mutual benefit of both parties. the free trade agreement with chile will hopefully be signed in madrid in may. unfortunately, the negotiations with mercosur have stalled, and it is to be hoped that the commission and the european parliament will do everything possible to remove the obstacles in this respect with regard to argentina and brazil. free trade is not a one-way street and more or less hidden protectionism should be a thing of the past. we must also increase our knowledge of the latin american region. the establishment of a centre for european and latin american studies would be welcome. what latin america needs, however, is not just free trade agreements but strategies to strengthen a climate favourable to investment, which can only be achieved with political stability and an end to capital flight. not every dollar that's been earned should be transferred to miami right away.
mr president, given the large number of votes that remain, i urge that we start voting early enough tomorrow, otherwise we will not be able to do all this! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i voted against the report because the partial results of the vote are incompatible with my personal view of ethics and morality. i also find it incomprehensible that there are only marginal approaches to research in agriculture and forestry, when it is essential to set the necessary research priorities for the future of agriculture and forestry in this area!
- mr president, i see the expiry of the euratom treaty as an opportunity for europe to say goodbye to the use of nuclear energy. the vote on the euratom programme today, however, decided to continue funding nuclear energy research. amendment no 12 states that research to safeguard existing reactors should be supported, with particular attention to the reactors of the enlargement countries and the reactors of the future generation. so, the safeguarding of future nuclear power plants. research must be directed towards non-nuclear energy sources, especially renewable energy sources, in order to contribute to the gradual phase-out of nuclear energy in europe. that is why we have rejected not only amendment no 12 but the whole euratom programme in today's vote.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is the tragedy of history that the very country which has refused to introduce really effective controls on the question of the use of biological and toxin weapons has become the first victim of cruel assassinations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe, however, that this sign of isolationism, of unilateralism, which is still very strong in america, must be taken up by the european union and in particular by the council, in order to persuade the united states, not only in this case but also in the matter of the international criminal court, to speak with very intense force in favour of international agreements - and effective international agreements - and to monitor these agreements. it is grotesque that even in these days a law is being debated in congress which actually vehemently opposes the establishment of the international criminal court, a criminal court which would also be dealing with such crimes, especially when they are supported and carried out by states. the second important point - and i would like to address the commission in particular on this point - is whether we in europe are equipped to defend ourselves against such attacks, or to reduce their impact to a minimum, to the extent humanly possible. it has been mentioned: the united states has a corresponding agency in atlanta - a disease control center. does the commission think that europe should also think about this? i know that if there is a problem, you ask for an additional eu agency, which then brings with it new problems of control and supervision. i think that in the case of such developments there are quite a few arguments for such an agency. i believe that the commission must do more in terms of security against such terrorist attacks, whether biological or nuclear. this is not a task which we can leave to the individual member states. we should also have to establish certain safety standards in these areas, particularly in view of this terrorism, at european level. i also believe that the commission must consider, together with the council, how we can achieve a certain minimum level of exposure, protection and prevention in the plants, plants and laboratories which handle such dangerous products, especially genetically modified products, as we are doing here, without encroaching too much on the privacy of the workers. so, someone working in such facilities must also agree to some control in this regard. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council has not yet adopted a decision on the budget. the cardiff process is crucial for sustainable development. the european parliament, and in particular the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, has already done a very good job of preparing for this, and i believe that transparency and, of course, dialogue are a matter of course in this house. we also hold hearings here very often and try to optimise the dialogue with the ngos as much as possible. my question goes in that direction. we have just concluded the wto negotiations. how do you see the possibilities of coordinating the cardiff process in consultation with the wto organizations?
- the proposal for a regulation (com (87) 560 final - doc. i would like to begin by thanking you for your persistence and consistency, which has already done a lot in this matter. in 47 days, the euro coins and notes will be available to all citizens of the euro area as a common currency, as what i believe is the european union's largest project of identity and integration. the euro area will become the home market of the single market. we are all called upon to do everything possible to remove the obstacles to the financial home market, not only in the context of crossborder payments. the disparity in costs between domestic and crossborder remittances in the domestic market is contrary to our objectives. a commission study has shown that, although there has been a steady reduction in the costs incurred since 1993, citizens still have to pay between €100 and €24 at some banks for an eu-wide international transfer. that is why this commission proposal and the report are necessary. i would like to say, however, that my group would be very happy if there were genuine self-regulation of the banks, which is sustainable, comprehensive and credible. the current proposals, although they provide for such self-regulation, are not sufficient in our view. that is why we are putting this report here. if there is a credible and sustainable self-regulation, we could imagine being against the regulation at the next reading, and it would enable the commission not to implement its proposal for a regulation. but we're waiting for the banks. you have a chance. we must go down this road because all the measures taken so far have been inadequate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the banks obviously played with the issue for years and eventually lost, so that now a coercive regulation was necessary. it is not acceptable that transfers of, say, €100 are charged 18 euro bank pesos, often twice - once at the receiver and once at the sender. the reason why this is not possible is that the financial institutions have long had the technical means to transfer money, to pay cheques and cards quickly and cheaply. we must also ensure - and this has been mentioned on several occasions - that the reduction in external charges does not in turn lead to an increase in domestic charges. if this is the case, then the internal charges will have to be regulated by regulation. we should also make this clear. the fact that the deadline has been pushed back by two months is a drop in the bucket. i am sorry to say that i cannot agree with the rapporteur on this point. banks have always been able to raise interest rates and expenses overnight. they will also be able to reduce their expenditure to a normal level within a period of one and a half months. i hope that the requests in this respect will not be supported by a majority.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i am extremely sorry that i now have to recommend to my group that it reject my own report in the final vote, because i really do not think, like my group, that it is fair that a national problem is being brought into the european parliament here! (applause from the centre)
- madam president! - what is it? i understand from the announcement that the next report is the bouwman report. does this mean that there will be no debate on the wto?
- mr president, i very much welcome the presentation of the commission's green paper on a strategy for the security of energy supplies. i am deeply sorry to say that renewable energy sources continue to receive too little attention. the kyoto target will only be achieved if we give priority to this energy. i am therefore very disappointed by the vote on the chichester report, as it still favours nuclear energy.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. as we remember, we had a debate scheduled for strasbourg last week to celebrate the opening of the mont blanc tunnel. in fact, we had to discuss the tragic incident in the gotthard tunnel here at the time. if we continue to talk and talk and do nothing, we must expect more accidents in these sensitive and sensitive areas, especially in the alps. but that is unacceptable from my point of view, from my understanding of politics. we must therefore do everything we can to put into practice what the commission has rightly included in its white paper. i have no doubt that there is a need for concrete safety measures in the tunnels. i have no doubt that there is also a need for stricter controls, especially on working hours. i hope that we will soon be able to conclude the conciliation procedure and, above all, to implement and monitor the corresponding measures at european level in the field of working time. but the basic problem is surely that too much traffic is moving over the alps on the road and on heavy trucks. it is not at all a question of how this is wrongly and demagogically assumed to hinder economic cohesion and cohesion, but it is simply a question of ensuring that this cohesion, that these economic relations, that trade is conducted in a way that is firstly environmentally friendly and secondly that minimizes the risk of accidents. we can never avoid them completely, but we can minimise them and thereby give the railways in particular a great chance. i myself have written a report on the opening up of international freight routes and i am in favour of rail being involved in competition. at the same time, however, i am also in favour of the transport policy - and i repeat this to conclude - as proposed and laid down in the white paper, being implemented quickly, and very quickly indeed, in order to avoid accidents like the gotthard as soon as possible.
- mr president, i have to go. we are appalled by the large number of victims of this flood disaster and i believe it is the duty of the european union, the individual member states and the commission to do all that can be done now to help the people affected and to help them overcome this difficult situation. although algeria is farther south than the regions in which we are located, we know that winter can be cold and very rainy. so help is absolutely necessary and all that can be done to alleviate suffering must be done, and unconditionally. that does not mean that we do not, despite this terrible disaster, and despite our help, have hope that algeria will find a way to strengthen the dialogue that is needed, the dialogue between those who want peace and freedom in that country. the sacrifices made in algeria, not only during the war against the colonial masters but also in recent years and months, are horrendous. the acts are horrendous, and it is high time that the government and the president of this country find a way out of the crisis. there were many hopes for bouteflika's election as president, but there were also many disappointments in the last few months, disappointment that more is said and less is done, disappointment that ex-catedra is spoken, to the people and not to the population. the tragic events in kabylie - a commission in algeria has itself investigated them and, above all, has revealed their causes - should be an occasion to change the dialogue and the political situation in algeria. in connection with the unrest in kabylie, which then spread throughout the country or to large parts of the country, it was not that some chaos and some people controlled from abroad started these things, but the algerian commission itself has found that the misconduct of the security forces was the main reason. the tragic events of the past few days should therefore also be seen as an opportunity for algeria to try to pursue a different policy, a policy which also means offering the population more opportunities, more opportunities, more economic and social opportunities. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think it is a beautiful coincidence that this week, a few metres from the plenary, we can see an exhibition organized by bernd posselt, with the great title 'the band of understanding'. it shows hands, helping hands, connecting hands, empowering hands, and this exhibition is dedicated to disabled people, including the work of disabled people. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have given their time, patience, strength, love and sacrifice to people who need their help. these are families of disabled people, but there are many more. we should not leave them alone in the year of the disabled either. secondly, i am happy about the year of the disabled 2003, and this is the time to celebrate it, because it also shows me that the stability and growth pact and an aggressive policy on the disabled are not only not contradictory but also not mutually exclusive, if we take seriously the european social model, respect for the dignity of every person and the human rights to which we are committed. but we still have a lot of work to do. we need more equality in action. this includes the actual implementation of all the provisions of the constitution. we should move from principle to practice. secondly, we need a wider integration. integration must not end at the school door, but must also involve working life and social life. thirdly, we need the right to support for a self-determined life. disabled people must be able to decide for themselves how they want to live. fourthly, we must change the image we have of handicapped people working in the craft industry. here the pc, the internet, the integration of new media could be very helpful. with this in mind, we look forward to the year of the disabled, because we hope that it will sharpen our vision and enable us to take further action to eliminate the injustices and barriers that exist in our society. (applause from the centre)
madam president, in my short time i do not want to repeat what our excellent rapporteurs are saying here, nor do i want to deal with the strategy of the council and the member states, which have been working for months to make this convention as weak and unsuccessful as possible. i would like to address the commission in this historic situation, before perhaps one of the most important summits in preparation for a historic intergovernmental conference. i would remind you, mr president of the commission, that the commission's vision and design were at the origin of all the major european integration projects, that the commission was the spirit of the rector and the visionary of almost every major stage. i would remind you of the single european act, the delors 1 package, maastricht with the delors 2 pact, the report on economic and monetary union, the white paper on completing the internal market, the white paper on growth, competition and employment, the vision of the social dialogue and a social chapter in the treaty, the white papers on environmental policy and the role of parliament, all the major drafts of the commission, which was the pioneer in the run-up to the intergovernmental conferences. today you talk about the triangle of institutions. yes, there will be a power struggle between the council and parliament, but where the commission is, i see only a black hole! mr president, where is the commission's white paper on european democracy? where is your draft european constitution? where is your white paper on a system of checks and balances in this supernational space, on the method of the convention, on civil, fundamental and human rights in europe? you have not presented any of this, and what you are doing today, the marginal remarks, are not enough. i would like to make one point: if you do not even give this convention the right to elect its own president, you are denouncing him in front of the whole of europe! this is just one of your many errors that you have spread instead of a vision!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the future of the european union. i also agree with you that you want an extended agenda in relation to declaration 23, but that the convention should give it to itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it is rather obvious that different options can be put to the council which can also take account of the different points of view. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i would like to warn you once again against postponing the intergovernmental conference scheduled to take place in nice in 2004 because i am firmly convinced that the public would regard this as an attempt to escape their vote. if, as has been said everywhere today, we really want to have an open debate close to the citizens, nothing is more appropriate than the next european elections and the inclusion of the issues.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission! i know you're in a hurry, and you have to go. i would like to thank you very much for keeping your promise to the members of parliament that you would not bring anything to laeken that has already been decided and for insisting so strongly on the existence of an interinstitutional working party. this cooperation with parliament is very exemplary and i would like to thank you very much for it. but i would also like to thank the rapporteurs, mr leinen, mr méndez de vigo and mrs kaufmann, for putting so well at the centre of their very good reports the importance of making the decisionmaking structures in europe more democratic and efficient and that there should be no contradiction, as has perhaps sometimes been the case here and there. we must sacrifice elements of democracy for efficiency. what we are concerned with, and this applies to both the convention and the legislation, is that we, as directly elected parliamentarians, are convinced that we can do everything, which is completely wrong, but that we should have control over the decision-making process. mr president, there may still be some minor differences. we want this right of withdrawal, the call back position, only for cases where a delegated decision-making structure is not capable of making decisions or makes wrong decisions, namely wrong in the sense of against the will of the legislator. it would be better and always good if others decided as we have done in our policy decisions and our political orientation. i hope, firstly, that the council is now ready to set up this interinstitutional working party soon, and secondly, that on the basis of the mandelkern report, the kaufmann report and the commission's conclusions, we may be able to conclude the agreement as early as june next year, or at least the council may agree in june next year that these three institutions have found a way of developing the future of europe and of shaping it democratically and efficiently.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it is tragic that it took an event like the dramatic terrorist attacks in new york and washington to shake europe and the european council in particular. but i am glad that it has now come to this and so quickly that in a very short time a package has been put together, a package against terrorism. it ranges from money laundering to freezing accounts to the measures we are discussing today. i am glad that terrorism is finally defined and prosecuted as a criminal offence for all 15 member states, rather than for 6 member states as before. i am glad that the european arrest warrant will come, i hope. i hope that national animosities will not again lead to the return of this european arrest warrant, which we so badly need. i would ask you to simply refer to the proposal of parliament. i think we have a good position here. i am glad that we are going to have eurojust and that we have taken a step in the right direction by extending the powers of the european union to combat terrorism. i am pleased that there will be joint investigation teams at europol. this is all very positive, because we are showing the citizens what added value the european union can bring. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. the member states must therefore be required - finally, and with consequences if they do not - to provide information to europol, to ensure optimal coordination between eurojust and europol, and to ensure appropriate parliamentary scrutiny and monitoring. parliament has made excellent proposals here and i congratulate the rapporteur and the whole team of shadow rapporteurs. i hope that this excellent work will also receive full support tomorrow.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not if you look at the fraud figures, the figures on the irregularities affecting the european budget in the year 2000, you will see above all a huge increase in the number of irregularities detected. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but i would like to ask the commissioner to take a decision on the matter. now, of course, there is some debate about whether the information has improved or whether there has been more fraud or whether there has been more irregularity. i'd say it's probably going to be a mix. the commissioner may have a slightly different opinion on this, but we cannot go so far as to say that once we have detected 100% of irregularities, we have had the best anti-fraud measures, because then we have no budget at all! in this situation - and perhaps the commissioner responsible was also a member of parliament in a previous life - the question is: what would happen in a company if the management of the company presented such figures in one year? we are constantly being told that we are one of the best administrations in the world. we're working on it! i think that something different would happen than what the commission is suggesting here as an action plan. i think we should think about this - and that was the point of my report - where this journey might go. mrs theato has already mentioned one possibility, and it is an important one. we're not going to get around that if we want to change anything. we must tackle the question of a european public prosecutor, and we must do so without any excuses for amending the treaty. we have the contractual options. the fact that you, mrs schreyer, are opposed to this is your business, but we cannot continue to stand idly by in front of our taxpayers and say: 'there is nothing to be done! we don't have a commission for that. we have a commission to act on, mrs schreyer, and i would remind you of that! we must also give greater weight to the question of protecting the financial interests of the union in the enlargement countries. there have been and are proposals here too that we should at some point have our new anti-fraud unit take on an advisory role - we already know that. it is not the candidate countries, as we have seen in the case of slovakia, that are to blame, but the commission's inability to tackle the enlargement problem properly, so that our fellow citizens can get the idea that this enlargement is so prepared - also in financial terms - that they can say yes. the commission has a great responsibility here. i think that if you have to put forward and implement figures like that, commissioner, then i would actually be inclined to think that you have to take every opportunity that you have to improve things. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i hope that the council will take them up. it concerns a question i am still asking here. mrs schreyer, the director of the operational department of the anti-fraud office, olaf, is mr alberto perduca. his qualifications as a prosecutor, his experience in fighting the mafia, but also his international experience make him the ideal man for this job. unfortunately, the new italian government has been blocking his appointment for months now. perhaps you can tell us, mrs schreyer, what the commission has done so far in this matter. in this case, would not the president of the commission have to intervene personally? has this perhaps - i hope - already happened?
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs very warmly for their work. i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course. but we must not let that lead us to say that everything has worked out, that the matter is settled, that we can go on a little and things will be fine. i also think that the step proposed by the commission is the right one and justified. but, commissioner, we have already discussed this, and if this is indeed the case, and i believe that there are serious differences between the work of the agency and that of the delegations, and in between there are, as it were, the decentralised delegations, then general conclusions must be drawn from this, not because there are good people in one case and bad people in the other. it is certainly also due to the structure of the decision-making processes. in that sense, you will certainly not be able to give us an answer today. but i would also ask you to use all the imagination you have, commissioner, and certainly that of many of your staff, to restructure the work and the policy of the commission in the balkans. i believe that the agency, which is not only an agency for reconstruction but also an agency for development, should play a greater role overall. i admit that this can be done in conjunction with the delegations, which are also given additional tasks in the sense of decentralization. but i do think that we should propose early next spring, at the beginning of next year, what the commission's aid, support and development structure in the balkans should look like for the next ten years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
does the commissioner agree that early next year is before the end of march?
in writing. - the members of the freedom party cannot accept amendment no 34 because the direct reference to the charter of fundamental rights, which has no legal value yet, is not legally tenable in our opinion. as for the 'european arrest warrant', we prefer a positive list to the negative list in the report because in this way the principle of legality remains the unchanged basis of criminal law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the green group's voice in the chorus of praise must not be lost either for all those who have worked so hard and for so long here that we can get closer by millimetres and module by module. i agree with all those who have spoken before me, and particularly with you, mr minister, that we should see all this in the light of e-europe and the single market. i appreciate your efforts, not only personally but also on behalf of my group, and i know that many things can sometimes be resolved in the corridor, over coffee or in other informal ways, for example, with an exquisite meal. excuse me, but i have a little stomach ache. not because i've been spending so much time with lobbyists of one side or the other at exquisite dinners lately, but because the food is either too rich or too meager, depending on your point of view. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them, but i am not sure that the commission will be able to accept them. i would like to make one point because i have had an excellent exchange of information and cooperation with mr harbour in the area of universal service throughout. i would like to make one point in the context of universal services, namely, the disabled consumer. we don't give presents here. we live in a society which takes action for reasons of solidarity and also for economic reasons. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the information society is fully integrated and that the disabled are able to access it. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the information society is fully integrated and that the disabled are able to access it. i just wanted to take this out to show you all that i trust time. but that's not gonna cure my stomachache. i think that with this stomach ache i would very much like to agree to this compromise because i am as much in favour of this single market as you are, and i would prefer it to have been installed and established yesterday and not in the near future. but i too agree with the crucial points, the key points already mentioned by my colleagues, which in my view do not really represent a solution in the compromise: interoperability, digital television, the obligation to broadcast, article 6 of the framework directive. with this bountiful or somewhat meager diet, i think a millimeter or two further. i'd like to hear what you have to say, and then, even though it's hard on my stomach, we'd like to say yes.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. this package is actually one of the key points of the presidency of the council, and i would like to congratulate you on the dedicated approach. we need meaningful compromises, and we need them quickly. this market is very fast-moving, and that is why we need decision-making procedures which are fast and which bring a binding decision and, above all, more legal certainty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would just like to remind you that we currently have 80 cases pending in austria alone, of which only two have been decided by the supreme court. this can't be the way to the future. the aim of the directive on authorization is, in my view, to ensure that harmonization is very positive, but at the same time that the right of way must also be guaranteed. it must be possible for the authorities to help you enforce these rights if you pay for it. the open interface is of particular importance in the access directive. the independence of the alternative operators, and in particular of the interface, should not be underestimated in future. it is particularly important for small and mediumsized enterprises that they continue to develop dynamically in the future. in the case of universal service, we need clear definitions of the universal service provisions, in particular as regards what the operator has to finance and what is financed by the state; and if there is state funding, the question arises whether a public tender should be organised. i believe that these steps towards liberalization - from the single market to the home market - are of particular importance to the citizen. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to the question of the future of the community.
- the proposal for a regulation (com (89) 6 final) on the common organization of the market in bananas; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this case, a number of questions arise. can the commission give an estimate of the extent to which the market will now change - not just towards more competition? what effects can be expected on the workplace? can you already assess whether the digital divide will actually be reduced on the basis of the package that is to be adopted? wouldn't what's happening now be an ideal case for actually practicing transparency, both on the cost side and on the consumer side? we are now seeing that the new directives will lead to a flood of confusing information about telecommunications charges, and transparency should be at least as important in business as in politics.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur and the european parliament's conciliation committee. this persistence has finally led to a demonstrable result. after almost two years of negotiations with the commission and the council under the conciliation procedure, a compromise was finally reached on the rules on the labelling of compound feedingstuffs. i think that the house can vote on this directive tomorrow with great confidence. i believe that this directive is proof that in future the european parliament must also have a right of codecision on agricultural matters. the key points were, as we all know, the open declaration, the positive list and an evaluation report. the main concern of the ep was to establish precise labelling rules which provide for mandatory information on the products of origin, both in quantitative and qualitative terms. the council, which did not initially share this view, was finally able to reach a compromise. the commission has now decided that the basic products must be declared in percentage by weight with a margin and that the farmers must also be given the exact percentages if they so request. it is only by defining the basic products that consumers can have more confidence in farmers' products in the future, and we know how much we farmers need the respect and confidence of consumers. the positive list, which must be submitted by the end of 2002, should allow this. i would also like to make a positive point that future amendments to the directive will require the involvement of the european parliament.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! we are faced with two dilemmas. the first dilemma we face is that you have rightly, to be fair, mr president of the commission, put forward a political programme. but the proof of the political programme would have to be the legislative programme with which to implement the political objectives. that's what's missing. secondly, you have not really addressed in your programme the fact that we have achieved very little in the 2001 programme. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. thirdly, this year alone parliament has rejected or substantially amended some of the commission's proposals. how will you deal with these demands made by this parliament? the vice-president could tell you a lot about this, and in particular in the area of the environment and transport there are very few suggestions and indications as to how to implement the so-called sustainability. we all know that there are a number of problems with implementation. in a paper you also refer to implementation problems. but the commission also has problems with implementation. the commission's decisions, the commitments it makes and the disbursement of funds often take not months but sometimes years. it is therefore important that the commission should also consider how it can improve its own implementation, but certainly also how governments can improve the implementation of their legislative ideas or the legislative ideas of the european union. this brings me to the dilemma of the laeken paper, which i personally and most of us probably have. the paper is good. the targets are good. but, mr president of the commission, why are you so ambivalent, why so hesitant, why not so clear? there is a sentence in it that says that the commission considers it appropriate to examine the possibility of giving the union a text of principles. why not say clearly that we are in favour of giving a basic text, whether we call it a constitution or a charter or something else? the language is a symbol of the commission's failure to express clearly what it stands for. i think that's particularly important at this point, we're going to have a convention. but this convention will be mainly supported by parliamentarians from the individual member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if the council - and this is addressed to the president of the council - then considers making a former prime minister or, as it now seems, a former president president of the convention, and not a former president of the commission, then i fear that from the outset this convention will be in some way tainted by the fact that the majority is not oriented towards the community method, that the majority may not be so much interested in strengthening the commission and this parliament. at a time like this, in a situation like this, mr president of the commission, i think that the commission document which you adopted at the beginning of december should speak a clearer language. you said that in part in your speech today. the commission believes that the community level must be strengthened, that parliament must be strengthened as the central legislative body of the european union. and so we're faced with this dilemma that we can prove you right. it would be unfair to dismiss what you said today. but we are faced with the dilemma that in a delicate political situation we want a commission and a president of the commission who says even more strongly, even more clearly, even more unambiguously what is important, namely that the european union as a whole must be strengthened and that the community method is the method by which we give europe its future. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the negotiations with the council were not easy again. the important thing is that we were able to agree on the question of modernising the fishing fleet and on additional funds for the border regions of the member states. the role of the commission, and also of some members, has not always been clear to us. it is not possible, however, to provide large amounts of aid to the applicant countries and not to provide additional funds to the border regions of the member states. unfortunately, the economic situation in these regions is often not much better than in the candidate countries. the poor economic situation in the border regions of the member states is likely to worsen further as the new countries join the union, because of differences in the level of assistance almost all receive objective 1 assistance the border regions of the acceding countries will be greatly favoured. the border regions of the applicant countries already have in some cases better transport infrastructure than those of the border regions of the member states. i would like to mention the example of laibach airport in slovenia, which is more modern and much better equipped than klagenfurt airport in southern austria. after accession, it will be difficult or almost impossible to support smes in the border regions of the member states for the reasons mentioned above. but we must also be clear that the citizens of this region will hardly be able to support the accession of the new countries under these circumstances.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european parliament/slovak parliament joint committee recently carried out a border clearance in slovakia. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not excluded from the european union's borders. i would therefore ask the commission whether it is possible to use satellite monitoring or automated systems in this area, for example, so that statistical data can be collected and, on the other hand, the refugees can be better protected in the future by taking greater steps to deal with them. what programmes are actually available for these countries?
commission. - mr martin's question is essentially about the problems of access for non-governmental organizations to the doha conference in qatar. first, a little history: any world trade organization country has the right to be a candidate for the organization of a ministerial conference. it just so happens that qatar has offered to host the fourth ministerial conference. it just so happens that qatar was the only candidate to host this conference. let us remember, to understand this, that this decision had to be taken a few months after the seattle conference, which perhaps explains why there were not as many candidates as some might have wished. so doha was the only candidate city. it's a fairly small town. nevertheless, i believe that the authorities have made a significant effort, which was widely emphasized by all the participants in the ministerial conference, to be able to properly welcome the delegates and provide the necessary logistical support. it is true that several delegations had to limit the number of participants because of the limited number of hotel rooms. i did. i am not convinced that it is a bad thing to restrict the number of participants in such conferences. in any case, i am sure that the taxpayer is there, and as far as the european union delegation is concerned, we were satisfied with the organisation of the conference. in fact, 20 members of this house were part of the european delegation and i believe they were satisfied with that. it is also true that the logistical aspects were not facilitated by the events of 11 september and that many security measures were added to the controls normally applied to such events. that's right, and it hasn't made anyone's life any easier. we had, i recall, and i said it in this house some time ago, asked and obtained from the qatari authorities a level of access for non-governmental organizations equal to that in seattle. this was the case, even though security constraints caused difficulties for everyone. finally, it should be noted that, again for security reasons, a large number of potential participants, whether government delegations, parliamentary delegations or non-governmental delegations, have refrained from travelling to doha on their own initiative. as for the opportunity for the ngos present to get their message across, i think it was real. the organizations that were there were able to contact their national delegations, they were able to influence the outcome of the conference and we ourselves, at the commission level, have largely encouraged transparency vis-à-vis these non-governmental organizations. the rapid opening of documents, the holding of open meetings, etc., everything that has to do with transparency has, i believe, been greatly improved in two years by the wto secretariats, supported, promoted, and even sometimes initiated by the european union. the wto director-general also held a number of contacts in the country, in accordance with the commitment he had made at the july conference in geneva. i am happy to support the idea of a code of conduct which could govern relations between the wto and non-governmental organizations. as regards our own delegation, i told you that it was made up of a number of members of parliament, a number of collaborators of franz fischler and myself, plus some fifteen representatives of civil society who bravely went to doha and all of them fulfilled the mission they had set themselves. we worked with them on the ground in doha. if any of them wish to speak, i see no objection to that. i myself had many in-depth discussions with these representatives on the ground, as well as with representatives of other european civil society organisations who were not part of our delegation in the strict sense. in conclusion, if i compare doha to seattle, i think there was better participation, more transparency, more lively reflection, and the ability of the organizations present to get their message across was real. this has undoubtedly had an effect on the outcome of the doha conference. i told you about it this morning. i think that, generally speaking, there is progress in the way civil society is getting its voice heard on multilateral trade policy. that was true between seattle and doha, it was true in doha and i have no doubt it will be even more true after doha.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not want to rephrase the question, but i would like to ask a supplementary question. commissioner, if this is all true, as you have said, that doha was actually better than seattle, how do you explain the numerous complaints from ngos that they were not given the opportunity in advance, that they were not given the appropriate visas, that they were prevented from taking an active part by bureaucratic obstacles or by references to the low number of hotel beds? secondly, you have now presented the narrow field of vision as it was for the european delegation and as our delegation was represented there. but that was not my question, it was more about the possibility of civil society as a whole being represented there. i would like to say that there is a considerable difference between this and a country where there is freedom of demonstration and the right to express oneself. but if you don't see it that way, i'd like you to confirm that again.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to congratulate you on the success of the negotiations in doha. i think the european delegation - and i was there - has put the negotiations very well. we have a good chance of winning this round, too. the doha hosts have also been excellent. i think that was a good premise. but what mr hans-peter martin is talking about is dialogue with ngos. i think there is one point on which i would like to ask again about the parliamentary assembly. i do not think it is possible that this discussion is held in the same place every few years. do you not think it would be more useful if the members of parliament from the various countries could sit down together on a permanent basis and work together in detail on this subject, which is so important for the future?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. without using such polite language, the outcome of doha cannot be so nicely described as not to acknowledge the absence of any social component in world trade, at least from the point of view of the committee on employment and social affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but now for my main criticism. the eu, which is usually happy to talk about the social dimension as part of our european philosophy, has only succeeded in having the question of core labour standards as human rights at work put on the back burner at the 96th singapore conference, i.e. put on hold. where are we with our social responsibility? perhaps one more remark that is not uninteresting. i welcome the fact that china is now involved and hopefully other countries will join, but i doubt that it will make it easier to achieve basic human rights standards for work. so the chance approach has passed safely. i warn you not to take conflict prevention lightly. globalization without reasonable accompaniment is fueling further demonstrations and social conflicts. seattle is not over, as my colleague mann mentioned earlier today. it is coming back to life, and we should not be suppressing this here in these sheltered rooms of the european parliament. commissioner lamy, what are your plans for the future to ensure that core labour standards are not only demanded by the toothless ilo, but that you can help us to get out of the wto and get back to work and make a difference here?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i'd like to thank team fischler, lamy and neyts very much for putting together a new round. i think the main thing is that we talk to each other, that we do not seek conflict, mr ettl. i believe that this boost to growth is of enormous importance for europe, and in particular for employment in europe. but not just for europe: in developing countries in particular, millions of people will be able to get out of poverty - a breakthrough for the poor in developing countries too. i believe that this is particularly important for europe, which is the largest exporter of goods and services and the largest investor in this world. many issues concerning developing countries, the environment, social matters and animal welfare were discussed, and i believe that there is an effort to reach a consensus here as well. but we should not forget that the wto should also be concerned with creating a fair framework for investment, competition and market access. we must remove administrative barriers to trade, we must take reciprocity into account when opening up markets, we need tariff ceilings and we need relief for small and mediumsized enterprises and small consignments. if trade works, democracy works, and prosperity is created. i also believe that the actual actors, the economic actors, should be involved more closely in the negotiations, and i believe that we should involve eurocommerce, eurochambres, ueapme and the sme union in order to have them discuss these issues. for big corporations, the wto is really not the central issue anymore. mcdonald's is in every city in the world. i would like to ask one group to explain how they intend to deal with the secrecy of the discussions between the commission and parliament in the future. i think we need a solution here to ensure that we can continue to cooperate honestly and well in the future.
- mr president, i have to go. as a matter of urgency, i would like to note that the case of mr. dr. ganzert, a lawyer from wels, has been dismissed. he is currently being held by the nicaraguan authorities without reason and has been trying to leave for three weeks, but i would like to thank the president for writing a letter to the nicaraguan authorities asking for his release.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to use the many reports before us to make some basic remarks, as commissioner vitorino has done. if we look back at the past year, we can clearly see that we have made progress on homeland security in ways that have rarely been seen before, including before 9/11. we have defined the political guidelines in the field of immigration and asylum policy, we have drawn up detailed rules, we have introduced measures against illegal immigration and prepared intensive judicial cooperation in these areas, and after long discussions we have even implemented a money laundering directive. progress has been made, it has been difficult, but we have made progress. this is due in particular to the good cooperation between parliament and the commission which has led to this progress. i would like to thank you very much, commissioner vitorino. after the attacks on new york and washington on september 11, there has been further, almost dramatic, progress. it seems that the ministers of the member states - the ministers of justice as well as the ministers of the interior - have finally woken up. the consequence was that the anti-terrorism package, with the joint investigation teams set up at europol, was narrowed down to the european arrest warrant, where i expressly congratulate president berlusconi and president verhofstadt for reaching an agreement which finally made it possible to implement the european arrest warrant. the package of measures extends to the freezing of money and other assets of suspected organisations, as this can cut off the lifeline of terrorism and criminal organisations. but there have also been new considerations that indirectly lead to greater security, such as the recent discussions we have had here, in which we are calling for a visa to be kept as a separate document with a clear identity, just like a residence permit. this is an added security, an added value, which we are achieving here through this discussion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to take this opportunity to point out what has been less positive. that is usually the working situation in this house. cooperation with the council is lacking. documents are increasingly being submitted late or not at all, leading to phantom debates in parliament and in committees. the council shines in important committee meetings, but also in plenary, often by absence. the example is monday, when we met specifically in the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs to have important debates on the european arrest warrant, on cooperation with the united states, and on an exchange of letters between president bush and president prodi. the council was conspicuous by its absence, and there was no written information for discussion. this is unacceptable, to say the least, as far as the situation of cooperation is concerned. if you look at the timetables, you also know that they lead to impossible work situations. we're getting more and more last-minute documents. it can't be. we want to make rapid progress, but it must be accompanied by quality. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very grateful to the rapporteur, mr paasilinna, for putting the question to the commission, because it clarifies a few things. i also thank commissioner liikanen for his public statement. i would like to add that those of us who have been dealing with these reports - there have been several, the whole package in the last few weeks - have been under enormous pressure, that a lot of misunderstandings have occurred because we have not always been able to inform each other in time of the changes that have taken place. i would point out that these misunderstandings led the greens to want to include the content of the compromise amendments on my behalf, but i did not sign anything for the greens. but i'm back here now. but given the time constraints, i am in agreement and will not withdraw anything. i have only signed two specific amendments, i have not signed the others. it is obvious because i have expressed myself in this way, and i have been understood in this way. this is not a reproach i want to make to individuals, but just another fact i want to point out, which happens when we are under such time pressure, because we wanted to finally go public with this document towards the end of the year. i don't want to have to work on such a delicate problem again in the future. this is really not okay!
mr president, we are probably addressing the question or the comment to the wrong person, but you represent the whole council here with us. i feel that the question of western sahara, to which i have devoted more than 50% of my political life, is really a mourning. it is clear how the conflict is to be resolved. there was the un peace plan in the early 1990s. it is also clear which european countries have very strong geopolitical interests in not following this un peace plan. i must of course take note of the answer when it says that we must follow what is happening in the un. i believe, however, that in the spirit of a common foreign and security policy, the european union and the member states must take a coordinated approach in line with the un peace plan. events have turned upside down since the visit of king mohammed vi. the western sahara was also visited by the french president, jacques chirac, who, contrary to all international law, said that western sahara was the southern provinces of morocco, as we are discussing in the council of the european union.
mr president, mr neyts, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in some of the countries which are preparing to join the union, corruption is a major issue. we are currently negotiating accession with these countries. the funds from privatisation have often disappeared from these countries in dubious ways. do you think it is possible to clarify these points in the context of the accession negotiations or at least to apply clear provisions in this area?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs, especially mrs van den burg, but also mrs kauppi, very warmly for their cooperation on this report and also for their cooperation with me on the report on crossborder occupational retirement provision. the report on taxation today is a supplement and a continuation of the report for which the codecision procedure was already completed in july of this year. we all agree that we must achieve greater tax coordination on the question of occupational retirement provision, but not just on this one. we are proposing the downstream taxation, the iet system, because it is already a reality in the vast majority of member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in amendment no 1 mrs kauppi has urged the council to make rapid progress on the proposal for a directive on the activities of occupational pension schemes, which will ensure the mutual recognition of occupational pension schemes and will make a significant contribution to actions for effective tax coordination. it is sad that this amendment should be tabled because the ecofin council, like the european council in lisbon, feira, stockholm and wherever it meets, sets priorities and has not yet gone beyond sending a questionnaire. i therefore ask the council: what is the reason why it stresses the urgency but fails to act on it? what are the problems in the council with the commission proposal from october last year? what is the council's position on the van den burg report and the european parliament's decision of july? what are the specific requirements which the council is having problems with? we want answers because we want to continue negotiations so that we can finally implement the objectives of the financial services action plan and the demands of the european parliament for the benefit of citizens and businesses in the sense of the common objectives that have been expressed so often.
- mr president, i have to go. this is going to happen faster than anyone thought. i would first like to apologize to mrs villiers. i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question, and i hope that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. a lot has been said. i would just like to add a few things. firstly, the speakers on this and the previous agenda have a great goal. we will do our utmost to ensure that the financial services action plan is adopted and implemented in a timely manner, with high quality and on schedule. this directive is now part of the action plan for financial services and we hope that, unlike in other cases, the council will follow up the commission's and parliament's preparatory work on this issue as quickly as possible by adopting its own position. my predecessor, mr lehne, has already pointed out that the first milestone in fiscal policy at european level was set by the 1998 directive on the effectiveness of accounts. this is the only european legislation to date which has regulated crossborder collateral in connection with financial transactions. we need a uniform regulation of this matter to create an efficient internal market. we need to remove the uncertainties about the law applicable to the crossborder transfer of securities in securities transactions. we need to eliminate the increased administrative burden that stands in the way of a low-cost and integrated eu market. we need to eliminate the legal uncertainty of 15 different legal systems because these different legal systems create a risk in using collateral abroad. we also need to eliminate the disparity in the rules on insolvency. there is therefore a need for a uniform minimum regulation. the directive is the only means of achieving these objectives. we therefore welcome and support the report by the rapporteur and that by mr lehne of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. thank you very much. we hope that this parliament's report and the commission's proposals will soon become a reality and can be implemented.
- madam president! - what is it? i would like to note that yesterday's minutes show that dr ganzert - the lawyer who was detained in nicaragua - has now been allowed to leave, and i thank you for doing everything you could to make this possible.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. an international convention on the protection of victims of international armed conflicts states: "it is prohibited to use weapons, munitions, and materials and methods of warfare that are likely to cause unnecessary injury or suffering". so much for the theory. the practice is different. now, unfortunately, there are malevolent people in this world who are unscrupulous in their decision to use violence, and who are unscrupulous in their decision to use weapons. but there are also those who take up arms for good reasons - to limit and prevent violence and terror - and who must do so for reasons that are in full accord with human rights. we are calling on them to take up arms, even for good purposes, but not to use them to cause unnecessary injury or suffering, as the text says. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we should be very clear about our views on this too. there may be technical possibilities that can be built in here to prevent these injuries and this unnecessary suffering. but at least until then there must be a moratorium, and that is what we are saying today. we also deplore the use of these weapons, not least in afghanistan. but what is more crucial is that we look to the future and that the european union should be very clear and unambiguous in its commitment to such a moratorium in order to prevent, to say it again, unnecessary injury and unnecessary suffering. europe must also make a clear commitment to this. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. first of all, let me say that i really enjoy the fact that we can talk in a rather intimate atmosphere here. without a doubt, it is easier to ask important questions than to find the answers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, but i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his work. we have known since the charter of fundamental rights that the success of such an event depends very much on the presidency. in this context, let me say that i was a little concerned that the presidency of the convention would also be designed to be 'young' and 'dynamic', given the youthful outfit of the president of the council. i was therefore rather pleased to learn, unlike mrs frassoni and mr bonde, that, as is characteristic of high culture, the opinion of the elderly and the wise is still preferred. the installation of the convent was the only outstanding achievement. i regret, from the austrian point of view, paragraph 59, which is very narrow-minded and does not meet the requirements of pan-european safety standards.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. in its laeken declarations, the european council considers that the european project derives its legitimacy from its democratic, transparent and efficient institutions. if the council then asks the question and also informs the convention of the need to strengthen the role of the european parliament, you will probably not be surprised if i, as a member of parliament, say absolutely yes, because the european parliament is the only institution directly elected by the people. all its meetings are public and transparent - i wish the council were so - and when i see how quickly we are able to take decisions - for example on the european arrest warrant - we are more efficient than the council and in many cases even than the commission. the commission's white paper on european governance and the so-called mandelkern report are therefore welcomed by the laeken council, and i hope that the council will do the same with a view to strengthening european parliamentarism. we would also like to discuss with the commission and the council new forms of governance. the commission has, for example, proposed an interinstitutional working party. i have heard that the council has not accepted this, but has rejected it. i hope that at least now, before barcelona and before seville, there will be intensive discussions with the council and the commission on new forms of governance, which are inconceivable without the consent of the european parliament. i know that some governments are too independent and self-sufficient, and the commission and the council sometimes find it annoying that we 'meddle' too much in details. we are also prepared as the european parliament to accept a new division of labour with the commission and the council, because we too must prepare for an enlarged union. but in our view, any delegation of tasks must be accompanied by a call-back mechanism, because the search for new forms of governance in the form of european governance and the consideration of new allocations of powers between the union and the member states must not come at the expense of european parliamentarism. on the contrary, european parliamentarism must be firmly anchored in the european constitution. let me make one final comment on so-called civil society. the european council has decided to set up a forum and mr barnier, as commissioner, has clearly and often expressed his support. we welcome the establishment of such a forum, but just as such a forum supplements and does not replace the deliberations of the convention, civil society and civil society deliberations do not replace but complement parliamentarism. in this sense, we very much want this dialogue with civil society, with citizens, and we hope that the council and the commission will not see this as contrary to parliamentarism but as complementary to the european parliament. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. laeken was better than nice a year ago. i am grateful to the belgian presidency for this. the good result, however, is related to another decision situation which was the case for laeken. the central theme of the weekend was the future of the union. all that was rightly asked were questions. however, a cursory analysis of the questions reveals that some questions are not questions at all, such as the rhetorical question mark whether, in the interests of greater transparency, the meetings of the council should not at least be public in its legislative role. now, of course legislative council meetings must be opened, but why has that not already become the law of the land in maastricht or amsterdam or at the latest in nice? i am thinking of another question in the catalogue of the laeken declarations. the question of whether the charter of fundamental rights should be incorporated into the basic treaty and whether the european community should accede to the european convention on human rights must be considered. does this mean that the results of the last convention are really nothing more than an option? i hope not. i am even more critical of the laeken declaration, which does not even raise any questions. for me, as an elected representative from a medium-sized country, the question arises as to how the convention intends to ensure that the big countries do not become hegemonic in the future. unfortunately, there has been a very specific reason for these questions in recent weeks, and no one should think that in a future europe - soon to be made up of 19 small and mediumsized countries and a small group of large and very large ones - the desire for directorships will diminish. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the unimpressive, even unloving way in which the general secretariat of the council handled the convention on fundamental rights last time does not bode well for the work of the constitutional convention. i can only hope that the council bureaucracy will teach us better and serve us very well! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. in the laeken presidency conclusions, the word 'entrepreneur' and 'employer' are used only once, in connection with the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of the employer. i think this is a missed opportunity. we are currently in the process of making the single market a home market at european level, and we have 18 million small and mediumsized enterprises in europe. i am president of the european economic community and it is therefore my concern to stress again and again that one of our main objectives should be to safeguard existing jobs and to create new ones. finally, small and mediumsized enterprises provide two thirds of jobs, pay 80% of taxes and train 85% of young people. the second point, moving away from the internal to the international. how do we envisage the european union being represented in international organisations in the future? we have now decided in parliament to set up this committee for nato. what is the situation with the wto? there are many other areas - how does europe intend to take the lead in the future? the third point that moves me is the council secretariat. i think we should have a panel of the best minds here, including the secretariat. it should be possible for the european council, the european parliament and the commission to be equally represented here. it should be our aim that the best ideas of the best minds will ultimately lead to a result that will bring joy to the citizens of europe.
