- madam president! - what is it? i should like to follow up on what mr dell'alba said and say something about wednesday. not only is wednesday completely overcrowded, but important reports - such as the sjöstedt report on natural habitats and others - are dealt with without debate, which i think is out of line. but this is the consequence of the catastrophic error of omitting friday, which i would like to point out on this occasion.
- madam president! - what is it? we do not doubt that this is an important question, but it happens all the time. in the past we have always agreed to deal with such cases in the context of a wider debate. so urgency is not appropriate, especially since the subject to be dropped is also important. i would also like to point out - although i myself was unable to attend the conference of presidents because of the congress of our european people's party, my colleague james provan represented me - that this matter has already been voted on in the conference of presidents and therefore does not need to be brought up again. we are against making this an urgent matter.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i should like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for her work. i welcome the report and consider it important that european cooperation in the evaluation of the quality of school education in the information age is established. european training systems must be geared to the information society. rapid scientific and technological change and globalisation require high-quality training. we need an education system that can adapt easily to the rapid changes in modern society. what is a good schooling today? the transfer of knowledge and expertise? not only that! the role of education in the development of the individual and his contribution to a democratic, socially just and tolerant society is, in my view, the decisive factor in defining a high-quality education. young people must have the opportunity to acquire professional, social and societal competence in school. everyone has the right to a good education, including foreigners and those from marginalised social groups. the latter are particularly at risk of social exclusion because of their lower level of education. i call on the member states of the european union to ensure that everyone receives the same training. the social gap between those who know and those who don't must be bridged. the evaluation of the quality of school education is to be welcomed in two respects: firstly, i see evaluation as an incentive to improve school education, and secondly, it raises awareness of quality aspects in the education system. the member states of the european union must cooperate in the field of quality assessment of school education, which is essential for labour market policy and the free movement of workers within the eu. organisations and associations working in the field of quality assessment in school education should also cooperate at european level. we need european networks to support each other and to initiate the evaluation process from the outside. finally, schools, associations and organisations can learn from each other by exchanging information and experience and find exemplary solutions for good training. i am committed to good education to prevent unemployment and social exclusion. a high-quality education is an investment in the future, in social progress, in a world of peace and tolerance.
chairman of the committee on budgetary control. mr president, it is astonishing that this time the follow-up report on discharge seems to be attracting far more interest than the actual discharge, which was prepared by the old parliament. i'm glad to hear it. but it is not new that we are writing such a follow-up report and sticking to what we said at the time. i believe, however, that we will be able to do our job of checking whether the commission is complying with our demands in connection with discharge. i am particularly pleased and congratulate the rapporteur for taking up all this again, but i am also pleased to say that the commission has done very well in meeting these requirements. they're conditions, not just remarks. however, there is still a lot of work to be done. this is also clearly stated in the report. i would like to mention the clearance of accounts in particular. it is really worrying when we have over 70 billion euros in commitments that are bloating the budget and not available for other tasks that this european union has set itself. we must do more than report every two years, we must do more than de-mining. commissioner, you will see to it. secondly, i would like to say that i am not a big fan of the idea of setting up a second in-house investigation unit. we created olaf. we should pay much more attention to ensuring that olaf can carry out its work properly and independently, in particular its internal investigations. i think it is important that we nevertheless comply with our demand, which we made in the discharge, to set up a disciplinary chamber which could be located at the court of auditors or at the court of justice. i would remind the commission not only to explain this, but to provide a legal basis. in conclusion, i would like to thank you very much for your efforts in the gaza hospital. i was there myself. i am glad that it has finally started its work after all these years and is clearly working successfully for the people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. the fact that we are discussing today, at the beginning of 2001, the follow-up to the 1997 discharge is, in my view, rather anachronistic in the light of the fact that the discharge procedure for 1998 has been completed for more than six months and the competent parliamentary committee is already working on the discharge for 1999. a modern, efficient administration should react promptly to parliament's criticisms and suggestions for improvement, especially when there is a need to put an end to grievances. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to emphasize two points in particular: i cannot understand why the commission has still not taken any steps to establish a budgetary discipline chamber at the court of auditors or the court of justice, so as to ensure the effective application of the provisions of the financial regulation concerning the financial liability of officials for damage caused by them. how many times must we ask, urge, plead with the commission - i don't know what else - to do something? that is a reasonable demand. the same applies to our demand that parliament, as the discharge authority, should have access to the commission's documents at least to the same extent as the court of auditors. the obligation to provide information clearly arises from a contractual basis, namely article 276 of the ec treaty. the consultative body mentioned earlier also seems superfluous to me, so i will not go into it any further now because my predecessors have already dealt with it. the two demands contained in our amendments are, however, indispensable. i'm asking for your support.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the court of auditors' reports are becoming more relevant in the context of the current bse crisis. the european agricultural policy must be put to the test. bse is just the tip of the iceberg. subsidizing the growth of quantity, overproduction, then further subsidies to reduce the surplus, this is not only difficult for ordinary citizens to understand, this is also extremely fragile, and the quota system does not even come close to catching this. the mccartin report makes this very clear. it is the duty of our rapporteur to point this out again and again, not just in times like these. unfortunately, parliament does not have full co-decision powers in the agricultural sector and can therefore only make limited use of the political room for manoeuvre. the decisions are taken in the council of ministers, they are taken by the national ministers of agriculture, and they are made without the public's knowledge, with its various interests of clients. but while they reserve the decision for themselves, they are not prepared to take real responsibility. if there are errors, irregularities, fraud or misconduct, it is not they who are directly responsible, but brussels, the eu, which they point to again and again. that has to change. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need more transparency and more publicity. it is not against the farmers, but in the interests of the farmers to fight for a different consumer policy. mr mccartin has already used the right words in his report. the question is direct aid and cofinancing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council has not been able to resolve these problems effectively, and that is why i would like to stress once again at the end, and this will be the concern of the whole parliament, that we need full participation and the right of co-decision of the parliament in agricultural policy.
mr president, the nice summit was a summit of weak decisions. but it will not stop the development towards an ever stronger european union. if national measures fail, europe is needed. this is what we see in bse. suddenly all sides are calling for effective crossborder consumer protection and a crackdown on misbranded products. we are also seeing it in the fight against unemployment. smes are benefiting from eu-wide initiatives for growth and jobs to support member states' actions. it is all the more important that our programmes are well thought out, that the objectives are clearly defined and that they reach the right target groups. an initial budget of €450 million for growth-oriented smes is available. on behalf of the epp group, i would like to congratulate mr bushill-matthews on his report, which shows a great deal of attention to detail. we support his criticism of the commission's delay and lack of information. how can we properly monitor or even make substantive programme proposals under such enormous time pressure? we need clarity on which of the three facilities - start-up capital, guarantees, joint ventures - have been the most successful, in which countries and in which sectors new businesses have been set up, whether small businesses have also had access to external capital or whether the figures from sme circles are correct, according to which more than 50 000 new jobs have been created by interest subsidies of eur 100 million alone, which age groups are particularly in demand, and how much women have been involved. in my discussions with smes in my constituency, there were constant complaints that the funds were actually only going to the high-tech companies. i think that other innovative enterprises, such as those in the craft sector, should also be reached. the sustainability of services should also be given greater consideration. mr president, let us take up the initiative of our colleague mr bushill-matthews in this excellent report. the more precise the information, the more likely it is that confidence in european initiatives will increase.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank my colleague, mrs ria oomen-ruijten, for taking up the situation of frontier workers in an own-initiative report by the european parliament. the situation is different, and the problems that we still encounter in the european internal market, one of the central points of which is the free movement of frontier workers. the european union is not a political union, but a political union. as a member of parliament in a border region with luxembourg, belgium and france, i am struck by all the facets of these questions. why is it that a german pensioner who is obliged to undergo dialysis is only allowed to use it for a limited period of time during a holiday in france? the mother in germany is entitled to child support immediately on the birth of her second child, but not if her husband is working in luxembourg. can the aunt insured in belgium also be cared for in a nursing home in germany close to the relatives? the pension rights acquired in italy require enormous effort before they reach the german pensioner. and why should the mayor who volunteers in germany, when he receives an expense allowance, suddenly have to tax all his salary he earns in luxembourg in germany? the luxembourg firm is fighting back because of the extra effort and costs involved, and the job is at risk. so the mayor's office is being rejected. i could go on and on. border workers must be flexible to cope with the confusion of laws on both sides of the border. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of the single market. we, the members of parliament from the border regions of the european union, call on the commission and the council to ensure greater social justice across borders. we have achieved a great deal, but there is still a great deal to be done. the report by mrs oomen-ruijten shows the legitimate demands of the people in the border regions. the single market must also be completed in the labour market if we are to shape europe as a whole.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. unfortunately, amendment no 5 to the draft directive on the reorganization and winding-up of credit institutions has found a majority. this is more than regrettable because it results in the possibility of access by third party creditors and therefore mortgages ordered abroad for the benefit of banks are no longer insolvency-proof. this is unacceptable! i think that is a sufficient reason to reject this report. i have done so and i regret that the commission's common position in its present form has not found a majority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i very much welcome the fact that this subject is on the agenda today. mrs jackson, thank you so much for asking that question. if you refer to three specific directives of the european union, i would point out that this is a general problem in the implementation of european union legislation in the member states. if we assume that directives and regulations are adopted by the council and parliament in the eu, we would actually like to think that the council is also the user of these directives and implements them in the member states accordingly. but what happens? two camps are forming. on the one hand, the european union, which is looking for shortcomings in the member states. on the other hand, there are the member states who would like to transfer problems to the far-off europe, forgetting that they are europe and the commission in between. commissioner, you have worked very hard to ensure that these laws are implemented in the european union in a targeted manner. but it's not that simple, and we've criticized your methods at times. i can understand why you did what you did. there are various causes of the implementation problems. one of the reasons for the nitrates directive is, in my view, the failure to take account of scientific evidence, because one thing is certain: we cannot reduce nitrates as fast as we have asked for. nature just won't allow it. the habitats directive, on the other hand, was clearly identified by parliament last year as having shortcomings, namely that the directive is partly complicated, partly unclear and thus cannot be implemented in the member states. we were in toulouse and saw how the local people were trying to implement it. but basically, they don't know where it's going. they don't know where the boundaries are, they don't know how to set them properly. these are shortcomings that should be addressed. but we must also ensure that the guidelines are not so much utopian as realistic. mrs jackson's request contains everything we should be considering. there's really nothing more to add to that. with swifter sanctions and careful legislation we can solve this problem. i would also like to point out that something has to change in the member states, because the ministers for the environment are sometimes too cowardly to promote in their countries the ideas they decide to promote here, if this could lead to conflicts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the question put by mrs jackson shows that the best of laws are useless unless they are applied correctly and, above all, adequately controlled. for example, in the case of the habitats directive, member states have not implemented their own decisions. this is also true of many other pieces of legislation. it is also a question of the quality of the legislation we will need in the future. but the commission is responsible for implementation. it must also verify the progress of the on-the-spot check. the commission is dependent on the information it receives from the member states. i have the impression that monitoring is really difficult, because the commission needs information, data and also the reports that have to be provided. in the past, there have been many complaints that the commission lacks the staff and resources to analyse the data submitted in the context of its control tasks. i would therefore ask the commission whether the current capacity is sufficient. we as a parliament must also be careful, because we always ask for reports. i know that the commission is, of course, very busy with the adoption and revision of reports, which is a constraint on the commission's capacity and resources, which would not always be necessary. this means that all parties involved need to consider what they can do better. i think the commission should act more quickly, both vis-à-vis the member states and in initiating the necessary proceedings before the court of justice, up to the time of the fines. at the same time, however, i would also appeal to all member states to better comply with their obligations to implement, monitor and report to the commission. as the rapporteur of the groundwater action programme, which is still pending, and as the responsible person in our group for the water framework directive, i am naturally particularly concerned about the nitrates directive. we have to decide tomorrow at noon on the goodwill report, to which i have tabled a number of amendments. i would ask the honourable members to accept these motions. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i therefore ask for your support. i would like to mention one last point, namely the accession countries. we demand that the countries which want to join adopt european legislation. but if the member states themselves do not comply with them and the european commission is not in a position to intervene forcefully, then things will get messy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is what the reports today make clear.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by expressing my thanks to mr parish. i think that a very constructive own-initiative report has been produced. as the saying goes, the future belongs to the young. on the other hand, it can be said of european agriculture that there is no future without young farmers. i find that the future of rural areas, and in particular the future of young farmers in europe, is not looking good. the alarming figures should startle us. the number of farms in the eu has been declining steadily in recent years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the number of farmers under 35 years of age has fallen the most. i am glad that the commission has taken this opportunity to make a statement on the situation in the community. the traditional obligation to pass on the farm from one generation to the next is becoming less and less. what happens to the older generation left behind on the farm is often left unanswered. empty farmhouses - even in my home country, i could never have imagined this - are no longer a rare sight. what young man wants to justify his farming profession all the time? young farmers want fair prices for their products. subsidies are not the reason why the decision is made to take up this profession. the parish report can help to improve the image of young farmers as a whole. the public has a paternalistic attitude towards the achievements of agriculture. i would like to thank you very much, commissioner fischler, for your constant emphasis on the multifunctional role that agriculture plays and must play. but it seems that bad news is much more popular. at the moment, you read about the current bse crisis every day. but nowhere is it mentioned that in my country, for example, consumer organizations have been irresponsibly pushing for the cheapest food for years. i am of course opposed to the criminal machinations in the feed industry, the lack of controls by the authorities and so on. but all of this combined leads to the chaos that we now find in more and more of our colleagues. if you are a farmer, a young person, i think, rightly asks the question: do i have to do all this? in the present situation with regard to bse, it is completely inappropriate to put our farmers and young farmers on the spot. we have standards. the so-called good professional practice has been continuously developed by our highly trained young farmers. the essential services for the production of food and raw materials, the development and further development, the preservation of rural areas and the protection of natural resources are all tasks for which europe will continue to need farmers and young farmers in the future. in conclusion, i would like to say that these young farmers need not only sound policies but also good women and a stable family. because it is only from this environment that they draw their strength for their important tasks for society.
the commission has already done so. we have done a lot at this late hour, and this first fisheries debate in 2001 is a very important one. i am particularly pleased to welcome you today, commissioner fischler. for a long time, the fisheries debates in strasbourg were held on a friday. now, with the new year, friday is gone and we are debating on tuesday. and yet, while many of our colleagues are not listening to us today, at least you came. thank you for that. on the one hand, the new year brings with it a lot of expectations and hopes, especially from our fishermen in the union. i am referring only to the reform of the common fisheries policy and the eagerly awaited commission green paper. on the other hand, i regret to say that the worrying wrinkles on the foreheads of my colleagues and - as far as i can see from here, mr fischler - on your forehead have not diminished. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the fisheries agreement with morocco. i am afraid that the light at the end of the tunnel of the negotiations is not really visible yet. but the cautious and diplomatic approach of the commission - let me put it this way - whether it be through you, mr fischler, or through our president, mr prodi, has led to little understanding on the other side - and i am almost tempted to say, on the other side - and thus to no real progress. i am deeply sorry about this, because i want an agreement, but i also want to make it very clear that no agreement at any price. the financial framework is limited and the eu payments and benefits must be in a reasonable ratio. the kingdom of morocco must finally take a realistic and credible approach. the current obstructionist attitude of morocco could thus become a boomerang, because fisheries are not the only link between morocco and the eu. the eu should not be the elephant in the diplomatic china shop, but neither should it be the flea that is only irritatingly hopping around. the next financial compensation for the spanish and portuguese fishermen is in our hands. it is really time to think about and identify alternatives, however drastic they may be, because aid cannot and must not be a permanent solution. in this context, it will be interesting to examine the study on the cost-benefit analysis of fisheries agreements and draw the necessary conclusions. this is the point that mr gallagher raises in his report. there was a first presentation, but oh, that was a long time ago, and then silence was in order. let's be careful that this isn't the calm before the storm, because the signs are for a storm! first of all, i would like to thank pat gallagher for his excellent report. as one of our most active members of the committee on fisheries, he has once again done a very worthwhile job. i do not need to stress the importance of analysing measures and developments in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy. but what will the commission's long-awaited green paper propose? the objective - we are clear - must be to achieve a balance between improving fish stocks and the socioeconomic importance of fisheries. i think it is essential to involve the stakeholders more. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new products, and that the community's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new products. i want to tell everyone that we have a big work programme ahead of us. i look forward to a stimulating and controversial debate on the future of european fisheries. i think, however, that we must never, ever, ever let up in our efforts.
mr president, what should and will the common fisheries policy of the european union look like after 2002? this has been stirring the minds of those involved in fishing for some time. the poignant and gallagher reports are important milestones in the preparatory discussions. the real discussion of reform will, however, only begin after the commission's green paper is presented in the coming months. however, it is understandable that representatives of the very different fisheries interests in the european union are already trying to influence the preparation process within the commission. the commission has been asked to do so. i think it is too early for the european parliament to make a clear decision at the moment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. both rapporteurs have done a lot of work and have identified the main problems of the common fisheries policy. i would like to thank them for that. i'd like to pick out just three. firstly, the problematic question of access to water, which should at least be re-examined in the context of the reform. the establishment of protection zones must be based on scientific analyses, the results of which must be followed up. secondly, regionalization is another buzzword which is always the subject of controversy. this is not some kind of renationalization. we have a common fisheries policy in the eu and we will continue to have it. thirdly, and finally, i would like to stress once again the importance of involving the entire fisheries sector - fishermen, science, industry and so on - in the forthcoming reform process. this is the only way to increase the acceptance of the new cfp by those concerned.
commission. – madam president, before i turn to the specific question of depleted uranium, let me first put the issue in context by saying a word about the environmental situation in the balkans and what the european commission has been doing to tackle it. nearly a decade of regional conflicts, combined with weak institutions, old-fashioned polluting industry and a legacy of years of unchecked pollution, have left the environment of the balkan region in a state of serious neglect. in june 1999, a report conducted for the commission by the regional environment centre in budapest gave a preliminary assessment of the environmental effects of the conflict in the balkan region. in october 1999, the united nations balkans task force then provided its assessment of the environmental damage arising as a result of the kosovo conflict. in our efforts to tackle the health and environmental situation in the balkans, the commission has established a twin-track approach. this combines action on the one hand to address immediate problems with longer term assistance. our longer-term assistance is designed to embed a process of sustainable environmental protection in the countries in the region, all of which are potential candidate members of the union. let me set out briefly what we have been doing. in the framework of the stability pact, the commission has been the driving force in the development of the regional environmental reconstruction programme. this provides a framework in which environmental actions can be pursued at regional level in the balkans. by bringing together the various bilateral donors and the countries in the region, we are providing a focus for the coordination of otherwise disparate and overlapping bilateral actions. to help launch the regional environmental reconstruction programme the commission is currently funding actions to the value of eur 5m. other donors have committed a further eur 2.5m, and others still have expressed their intention to commit around another eur 5.8m, bringing a total of around eur 13.3m. through these actions we have targeted institution building, participation in the activities of the european environment agency in the region and two environmental hotspots in albania and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. our contribution reflects the balance between setting the basis for long-term environmental protection and urgent remedial action. let me now come to the specific issue of depleted uranium and the public concern about the possible health risks associated with the use of depleted uranium weapons in kosovo and bosnia for the local populations, as well as the international personnel serving, or who have served, in the region. the commission is naturally also concerned to ensure that the interests of its own staff and contractors placed in the region are properly assessed. let me stress again that this is an issue which has aroused considerable public anxiety and that anxiety must be addressed. but it can only be addressed on the basis of facts and the provision of all the information on this issue. our watchword must be "openness". that is why it is essential to proceed rationally and on the basis of scientific evidence. what then are the facts? uranium itself, as you know, is a radioactive and toxic element that occurs in several minerals. depleted uranium is less radioactive than natural uranium. it is readily available as a by-product of the nuclear fuel cycle and it is very hard and self-sharpening. as such, it is used to make tips to shells to increase their penetrating capacity. however, there is currently no unanimously held scientific opinion on the health and environmental effects of depleted uranium. at the time that the un balkans task force provided its original assessment of the environmental damage arising as a result of the kosovo conflict, it had not received any official document confirming whether or not depleted uranium had been used during the conflict. when that confirmation was given, unep carried out a mission to collect, for example, soil, water and vegetation samples in autumn last year. we expect that the results of their examinations will be known in march this year. for our part, the commission has acted swiftly in the face of recent concerns to ensure that any commission action on depleted uranium is based on sound scientific knowledge. we have used existing structures to convene a meeting of an independent group of experts under the euratom treaty to give an opinion on the possible health consequences in general of exposure to depleted uranium. in their opinion the experts will be expected to draw upon all available scientific evidence. we expect to have the scientific opinion of the independent experts within a month from now. in the light of the opinion the commission will review whether or not follow-up actions are indicated, for our own staff for example. we will also decide whether it is appropriate to adapt existing assistance programmes within the longer term with the aim of ensuring the sustainable development of the region. the commission will, of course, invite member states and international authorities to share information on their findings and approaches and to discuss any proposed follow-up actions resulting from the opinion provided by the independent scientific experts. the twin-track approach i have set out underlines the value added of the community contribution to addressing the health and environmental situation in the balkan region. the commission confirms its commitment to strengthening our medium and long-term support to improve the environmental and human health situation in the balkan region. (applause)
i have to say, madam president, the public is concerned because there is evidence of a link between this depleted uranium in the munitions and the effects on health and the environment. but at the same time, we also know that it hasn't been proven that this relationship actually exists. this has not been proved in any scientific study or in any of the studies carried out in spain, italy or other countries. for this reason, following what the eu envoy, mr solana, has said here, i would like to say that this debate is not an after-the-fact endorsement of milosevic. the operation carried out by the soldiers of nato and the member states of the european union in bosnia and kosovo was an operation against a war criminal. we should continue to thank these people for their commitment to human rights in this way. those who have political and military responsibility deserve our respect as well. i would like to make that clear on behalf of my group. (applause from the centre) but we hear that when the weapons used hit, chemical processes occur that produce, for example, uranium oxide, which can be problematic. we have heard in the last few days of investigations by the pentagon in january 2000 which have shown that these munitions sometimes contain small amounts of plutonium. there are risks involved and soldiers must be reminded of the need to exercise extreme caution in areas where these munitions have been used. in view of these considerations, it is indeed necessary to carry out studies in order to provide certainty. these investigations are not a sign of weakness but a sign of the credibility of democracies which look into such issues and do not sweep anything under the carpet. we owe this to the soldiers who have been affected, to the staff of non-governmental organisations who have been affected and also to the civilians of this region. we must determine whether there are any health and environmental effects, and then either give warning or permanently withdraw such weapons from circulation. it is also necessary to use, during the period of study of these weapons and their effects, alternative munitions of equal potency which cannot produce any of the effects feared. i would like to thank mr solana and the commission for agreeing to inform the european parliament so that we can make our final decision on this basis at the appropriate time, in order to ensure the safety of our citizens and our soldiers and to ensure the credibility of our military operations in the future, which are essential for the realisation of human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is a very strange and cynical discussion we are having here. i'm almost inclined not to want to get involved in the debate about which ammunition that kills people is better. but we're still doing this today. i'm not going to get into the debate about which wars are worth fighting and which wars need to be fought. that's not our topic today. we have another matter to discuss. we have said many times in the past that if it is necessary to use weapons - and we have always agreed on this - it must be done with the least possible interference, with the least possible damage to the environment and to the health of the survivors. that is why we have always condemned and denounced chemical weapons in the past, for example, and have always agreed that these weapons should not be used because they are destroying and damaging the environment and human health far beyond the present day. if we are discussing today whether uranium-containing munitions cause leukemia, that is, blood cancer, yes or no, then i do not want to hear, not even from mr solana, whom i greatly respect, whether there is the final proof of this, yes or no. we are not talking about the latest evidence, and when we were talking in this house about our own health and about bse, we also all agreed that the precautionary principle applies, even though we could never provide direct evidence that infected material leads to the new variant of creutzfeldt-jacob disease. (applause from the centre) we have recently discussed and voted on the precautionary principle and we have said that even if the final proof is lacking, we must ban certain materials or certain practices if there are legitimate fears. we know today that there are more cases of leukemia. and as long as the scientists are still arguing, as long as we are all here not knowing which of the scientists is right, we must agree that there must be no use of this munition, that everything related to it must be clarified. a moratorium on these munitions is the least we have to decide on today. but we must also take care of the people who live in the regions, their health and that of their children! (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we are having this debate today because of our concern for the people. these people are the soldiers, our soldiers, who are there, but also the millions of civilians in yugoslavia and kosovo. it is not a question of determining here and now whether the war in kosovo was justified or not. this would be a wrong debate. i am therefore giving the high representative of the cfsp the full right to investigate with the utmost care and precision whether there is a link between the cases of illness that have occurred and the quantities of so-called depleted uranium munitions that were dropped during the war in yugoslavia and kosovo, but also in bosnia. if we want to do that, we must commit ourselves to a number of important principles so that at least we, as elected representatives of the peoples of europe, can regain the credibility that the alliance has lost with these and similar incidents. the first priority is to ensure that accurate and independent research is carried out by international experts using all possible scientific methods. secondly, we need a completely different information policy, and i thank the council, the commission and, above all, the high representative for the cfsp for the commitment they have made to provide parliament with all the information. thirdly, we must demand a moratorium on all such weapons and ammunition until the full results of the investigations we have ordered are available, so that we can then make our decisions in a responsible manner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we receive daily, almost hourly, new information about possible dangers. it is therefore very good that this parliament is dealing with this issue today. i thank the high representative for his commitment to full information and transparency. it is also something new for us that we are discussing security and defence policy in this way. it is precisely the chance of european security and defence policy that we are not in the constellations of member states where governments argue against oppositions on these issues. in germany, for example, - quite different from what is happening here in parliament - the red/green government under its minister for defence trivializes all these dangers. we have a chance as the european parliament to get fact-oriented information and education, and that is a very good thing. what is harmful - and this debate has also been marked by this - is a reckoning with the gulf or kosovo wars in retrospect. mr wurtz, if you are quoting the charter of fundamental rights and the high principles of europe in this context, i must point out that when it came to european fundamental rights, when it came to ethnic cleansing, expulsion and terror in the balkans, your political grouping stood aside and failed. this too is part of such a debate. we call for relevant information to be collected and for the information available in the member states to be collated at european level with the un with the specialized agencies of the united nations and to be presented to this parliament. a violent conflict is always subject to the principle of proportionality of means. that is why we need the information and also the research on weapons systems that are less harmful than the one we are discussing today. the european parliament can fulfil its responsibilities in the context of the european security and defence policy by making constructive contributions.
- thank you very much, madam president, under the charter of fundamental rights, the european union is a free territory, where everyone can decide for himself in which language he wishes to express himself. (applause) i would like to thank
- well, mr cox, before the vote, we'll definitely determine which group lord bethell belongs to. i would inform you that, in accordance with rule 37 (2), i have received seven motions for resolutions and one joint motion for a resolution supported by six political groups. see minutes of the sitting. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
- mr. van orden, i can only accept if you have a written power of attorney from lord bethell allowing you to make this statement on his behalf.
- mr wurtz, i have just made it clear that a joint motion for a resolution is supported by six political groups and not seven. i am very well aware of the sensitivities of your group on this point and have therefore made it clear!
- doc. a5-0392/2000 by mr newton dunn, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (com (2000) 119 - c5-0272/2000 - 2000/0081 (cns)) on the establishment of the rapid reaction mechanism.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the committee on budgets welcomes the special facility for crisis response proposed by the commission. we support this community mechanism, which is intended to provide funds for operations in the context of crisis management and conflict prevention, without combat operations. it can only be right if the european union helps to maintain or restore public order, to promote dialogue, reconciliation, mediation and the prevention of human rights violations. but all this can only be effective if the special facility is able to react really quickly. we therefore expressly support the commission's proposal for implementation, namely the comitology, including an advisory committee. the emphasis is on 'advisory'. the commission has, over the years, with the backing of parliament, pursued the concept of communification. in other words, activities have been transferred from the common foreign and security policy, the second pillar, to the community pillar. this trend is continued with the present proposal for the special facility. so far, so good. i'm going to go. but the necessary resources must be allocated to heading iv of the financial perspective. but the fact that our finances are so tightly packed under the heading 'foreign policy' has been known to all members for at least two budgetary procedures. the council has always had the most serious conflicts with the council on the budget. it doesn't take a fortune teller to predict something like this for this year. we have therefore asked the committee responsible to do two things: firstly, to ask the commission and the council to explain their intentions in a joint report, to explain above all how they intend to divide responsibilities between themselves and how they intend to finance the measures, and secondly, to include a recital in the text which clearly states that the appropriations for the special facility must be financed under heading iv. if this is not possible, a revision shall be provided for. we also want parliament to be consulted on every measure. the rapporteur and the committee responsible have followed these budgetary aspects. we thank you very much for this!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since amsterdam, the union has proudly declared itself the fire brigade in europe for emergency situations. the only problem is, she doesn't even have a bucket to draw water from. the special fund for crisis situations has finally been raised, and i really welcome that. i would also have liked a fire brigade to have bought fire hoses, and it has also been pointed out by my colleague that the equipment of this fund does not meet the needs, but fire hoses are expensive. the special fund is nevertheless a step forward, and i must emphasize once again that it is very one-sided in its structure, because it concerns only the measures afterwards. but the prevention measures are much more important! the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
commission. – mr president, i am delighted to be able to respond to the excellent report by mr newton dunn, on the rapid reaction facility. he is a friend and colleague. we used to be, indeed, fellow tribesmen before he wandered, i hope temporarily, off the reservation, but i am not at all surprised, knowing the author, that this is such an excellent report. the rapid reaction facility, as it is called in the report, is of course now called the rapid reaction mechanism to avoid any possible confusion with the rapid reaction force over which, let me repeat for the benefit of readers of parts of the press from the country i know best, i have no responsibility whatsoever. that is a negative "no" rather than an affirmative "no", just for the benefit of the correspondence columns of the daily telegraph. i have to say i did listen to the speech by my friend, mr van orden. i thought that it was a good example of dancing on pinheads. i must say that his principal objection concerned what i think is amendment no 9 and, as i shall say shortly we are opposed to amendment no 9. but, if there is some confusion about the nature of what we are attempting to do, i have to say that it is partly because of what some of those who agree with the honourable gentleman have been saying about these proposals. if conservatives like my honourable friend do not approve of this, i have to ask the question, not entirely rhetorically, what the hell will they ever approve of? in the days when i was chairman of the party of which the honourable gentlemen is a member, we actually believed in trying to speed up the delivery of financial assistance. we actually believed in trying to cut through red tape. so, i wonder what the hell my honourable friend and his colleagues actually believe in these days. i think it would be desirable to look beyond those correspondence columns of the daily telegraph for one's information on an important subject like this. now, i am responsible for ensuring that the commission is able to respond swiftly and effectively in a crisis both on its own and, as is perhaps more likely to be the case, as part of an overall european union response to crises including those in which the european union rapid reaction force might find itself deployed. the lesson of recent years has been very clear. responding to crises very often involves the deployment of a wide array of tools, sometimes encompassing the military, frequently including policies and programmes for which the commission has a responsibility or involvement from trade policy to humanitarian aid, from the provision of election monitors to assistance on the ground with customs missions, border management, assistance to the independent media and so on. too often in the past, take the balkans for example, we have just not been able to respond with the efficiency or timeliness that developments in the real world demand. or, we have had to wade through procedural treacle in brussels which has bogged down officials who should have been devoting every effort to getting the job done in the field. that, i fear, was my impression when i came into this job. we are trying to rectify these deficiencies. weakness is exposed by real events, not theoretical models. i have devoted a great deal of my attention since i became a commissioner to trying to improve that delivery on the ground. i think we have started to make progress, as i believe our response to recent events in serbia has demonstrated. there the commission was in the all too unusual position of being praised by the local government and by other donors for the rapidity with which we were able to deliver. but this is still too rare, and getting help where it is needed fast still requires a great deal of effort on the part of our officials to cut their way through bureaucratic thickets. we owe it to them and to those we are trying to help to equip them properly to do the job. that is what this proposal for a rapid reaction mechanism is all about. just as the wider reforms which we are introducing to our external assistance programmes across the world are designed to ensure that the european union aid programme begins to earn and to deserve a reputation for excellence. the rapid reaction mechanism will allow us to activate very rapidly and to disburse quickly community funds in response to crises or emerging crises. the draft regulation under discussion in the council reflects the amendments submitted by parliament. we want to ensure maximum flexibility both geographically and bureaucratically, dispensing with complex comitology rules, for example, in favour of straight provision of information to the council and the european parliament and simplifying as much as possible the decision-making process. the aim will be for the rapid reaction mechanism to be activated to cope with the initial limited period of a crisis, pending the coming on stream of the regular community programme, be it cards or tacis, or whatever. interventions under the mechanism will be limited in time and amount up to eur 12 m each time. just before coming specifically to the amendments let me respond to one or two points in the debate. both mr newton dunn and mr wiersma – who spoke shortly after him – suggested that i should give examples of when the rapid reaction mechanism would be useful. almost the first problem i had to deal with when i became a commissioner was how to deliver oil rapidly to the democratically controlled municipalities in serbia. frankly, it strained our administrative creativity to get that done. we have actually managed to do it in a way which i believe satisfied the court of auditors as well as getting assistance into those municipalities very rapidly. the only other country, the only other donor which actually got involved as well, because of the complexities of what we were taking on, was norway to which i pay particularly warm tribute, but it was a difficult job, it would have been easier if we had had this mechanism in place in order to do it. i was asked about conflict prevention and i very much agree with what the honourable gentleman, my honourable friend i might say even though we are not members of the same party, mr hume, had to say about this, who knows more about conflict prevention than most of the rest of us put together. the important thing about conflict prevention is that it should be quick and effective, and i repeat the word "quick". now, mr howitt challenged me to say whether i believed that development assistance is the best form of conflict prevention. of course i do. sensibly used development assistance along with a generous and sensible attitude to the trading relations between countries is by far the most effective way of trying to cope with conflicts, a point made admirably the other day in an excellent article in the financial times by martin wolf bringing together the findings of a number of academic studies on conflicts in africa and in other societies. so of course i agree with that, but the commission will actually be bringing forward in the next month or two a communication on conflict prevention in which we will try to pull together some of the imaginative ideas which are being developed both in the commission and elsewhere for conflict prevention which is increasingly, as we have to cope with the dark side of globalisation, the major subject on the agenda of foreign and security ministers. but in providing the assistance, in providing the resources to deal with conflict prevention, i just want to make one point. it is not a question of the commission raiding one budget in order to find money elsewhere. the commission only has the money which the budgetary authority provides, which the council and which parliament provides, and my view, which i will be rehearsing once again in the general affairs council next monday, is the commission for too long has allowed others to get away without setting priorities and has been landed with all the political odium of setting priorities itself. i think we need to engage parliament and ministers much more in discussing the relationship between our political and development priorities and our external spending around the world, because if we only have a limited amount of money to spend, as we will have for the foreseeable future, for ever as long as there is a finance minister, we will always have to make very difficult choices between priorities, and not everybody will like what those choices are. but i agree with what the honourable member said about development assistance and with his view that it should be primarily directed towards the alleviation of poverty. let me deal with the amendments proposed by parliament. of the 38 put forward, the commission can take on board 34, either as they are or with small drafting changes. that is a measure of how close we are on this issue. we have difficulty with four amendments. firstly, amendment no 9: the first part talks about the need for the rapid reaction facility to be supported by the setting up of civil headline goals. we are happy with that notion, but we cannot go along with the european public security force suggested in the second part of the amendment, which is plainly well beyond the commission's remit. i hope my honourable friend, mr van orden, took note of that and that i can at least dismiss that nightmare. amendment no 14 adds a new recital on the financial rationale behind the budget line created for the mechanism and its budget provision. this amendment seems to stem from an earlier misunderstanding of the whole mechanism which later discussions in the european parliament have cleared up. it is now very clear that there is no question of moving activities or budget out of cfsp or to hijacking options under that pillar into a community framework. the mechanism is wholly a community instrument, and so is the origin of its budget. we cannot accept amendment no 28, because the "community" is not the budgetary authority. only the budgetary authority is entitled to determine annual financial provisions in the budget. finally, the commission would not of itself have been against amendment no 29, but we have in a spirit of compromise accepted the demand put forward by the council to limit the duration of operations, given the considerable flexibility achieved in other respects. these are not, i am sure as honourable members will appreciate, exactly fundamental differences. that is because basically we share the same objectives: to improve our performance considerably, to improve our response in crises. that is, i repeat, what this mechanism is all about. i very much welcome the support which overwhelmingly most honourable members have given it thus far. i hope very much that honourable members will give it a fair wind this week because, like you, i want to have it operational as quickly as possible. this is all about the credibility and the effectiveness of the european union around the world. if honourable members do not support this, i repeat, god knows what they think the european union is for. (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. let me say a few words on the question put by the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, particularly in the light of the lessons learned by our colleagues mr santer and others on their trip to north korea. i believe that we as the european union have a more important role to play here than we have in the past and that our policy cannot be limited to supporting the kedo programme. it is certainly regrettable that there has been no coordinated action on north korea in connection with the establishment of diplomatic relations by eight member states. the past year has been extremely interesting on the korean peninsula, particularly because of the policy of rapprochement between north and south korea and the family exchanges that have been made possible in this way. but we must recognize that this area is still a potential crisis area of great importance. on the other hand, there is now a political chance to achieve a lasting peace settlement. it is therefore necessary for the european union to act as an international actor in this field in a multipolar world. the aim here is to support policies that make democracy and human rights possible in north korea and on this basis make a significant contribution to the growing understanding between the two parts of korea: it was after the meeting of the presidents that the unity of this country was debated for the first time. such a policy must also include the possibility of gaining a better understanding of the nutritional and health problems in north korea and of how to integrate such aid into a policy approach in order to bring about an improvement in the situation and perhaps also to initiate necessary development that contributes to the pacification of the region. the peace process in the region is of course also of global importance. north korea is a major player in this world as an arms supplier and in the development of advanced weapons of mass destruction and delivery systems, a country that could well be in a position to become a major threat to other parts of the asian continent and beyond. i think, madam president, that we must therefore make improvements in such areas in order to prevent the proliferation of weapons and thus contribute to the stability of this world. i hope that our motion for a resolution will be supported by you and that the council and the commission will be able to coordinate their action with the european parliament so that we can make our contribution in our own interests.
the council. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to thank the honourable members for the valuable contributions made in this debate on the important issue of the union's relations with the democratic people's republic of korea. let me just make a few brief closing remarks. it is gratifying that the union has now agreed to try to coordinate better the issue of the establishment of diplomatic relations with the democratic people's republic of korea. some of the union's member states, including my own country, have always had diplomatic relations with the dprk, others have recently decided to establish relations, while another group is waiting to make a decision to establish relations. i personally think that a diplomatic presence is very important. twenty years ago i myself had the opportunity to serve in pyongyang and i know what it means to be directly confronted with the reality of this country. i would also like to recall the statement made by the president of south korea, kim dae young, when he visited stockholm following the award of the nobel peace prize to him in oslo. he publicly called for the european union to play a greater role in the situation on the korean peninsula. i think we should take his appeal seriously. we should be prepared to respond to such appeals when the time is right. it is important that we are united within the union on what we are going to do when we take a position on such measures. we should have a common view on whether there are reasonable possibilities of making progress in what we are doing, and it is of course also important that the conditions in the dprk are such that it makes sense to do something.
mr president, our group did not approve the sjöstedt report in committee. we would agree with him if the two amendments, nos 5 and 6, were accepted. we have had discussions with the other groups. as regards amendment no 5, i hear that other groups would also be able to agree to the amendment if there were two linguistic amendments. the first concerns only the translation from german into english. the german text reads: 'requires a review of the ffhg directive'. it was mistakenly translated into english as review. that would be examination. so this is just a linguistic adaptation. the second would be an oral amendment. we ask that the word 'legal certainty' in amendment no 5 be replaced by the word 'clarity'. in english, it would not be legal certainty, but clarification. i would ask you to take note of this oral amendment and to put motion no 5 with this oral amendment to the vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the parish report is about the future of young farmers in the european union. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. i rejected the report. the report pretends that everything is fine. nothing is all right, though. bse is challenging the whole agricultural system. we spend the small amount of almost 100 billion dm a year on agriculture. this is half the european budget. we start to ask ourselves, what do we get in return? swine fever, hormone calves, dioxin chickens and now the bse epidemic. we are beginning to feel disgusted, i think, with the food chain we produce, and perhaps even with ourselves! instead of grass and grain, we feed cattle carcasses of domestic cats, cage rats and other animals, and i think that's exactly the point that needs to be discussed now. the waste and faecalisation of our food is the logical consequence of a deranged agricultural policy which must certainly be stopped at this point. we must discuss this in principle so that these planned subsidies are not distributed in the future. that is what we have to tell young farmers. we must discuss this with the young farmers, they must be able to survive on the market without subsidies. that is not the content of the report. that is why it must be rejected!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. last year, few voices were heard to prevent the continuing human rights violations in china from being put on the agenda in geneva. i hope that in the coming months we will have more success and can win countries that are now members of the 57th commission on human rights. last weekend i attended a conference in switzerland as president of the european parliament's tibet intergroup. parliamentarians from eu member states, candidate countries and the us discussed ways to get their countries to raise the serious human rights violations by china. it affects the tibetans, but also the uighurs and the mongols. freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, freedom of movement are suppressed. the tibetan people are not allowed to exercise their religious, cultural or even political independence. tens of thousands are being hunted down, arrested, tortured. there is a persistent attempt to turn believing buddhists into atheists. we cannot turn a blind eye to this second cultural revolution. i am not ignoring the dialogue between the european union and china, commissioner vitorino. i am not ignoring china's role as a member of the wto and a future world power. efforts are under way to be more sensitive in dealing with important trading partners. i am betting that one day the old guard of insincere, centrally-oriented leaders will be replaced by new reform-minded forces. but we cannot wait for that to happen one day. we cannot stand by and watch as these many people are being subjected to mental and physical violence. human rights are not a western invention. the new agreements between the european union and third countries rightly provide for the suspension of measures on both sides if human rights are not respected. we therefore appeal to the council and the member states of the eu - mr danielsson, you said we are a key player - to take the initiative in geneva this time. we should try to convince the countries of africa, asia and south america, together with the united states, canada and, as i have learned, switzerland and the countries which are joining the european union, that the issue of china is finally on the agenda in geneva. human rights are not secondary, human rights are universal basic rights!
president of the commission. - madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pleasure that i stand before you today, at the beginning of a new presidency, and i wish you all a very happy new year. in welcoming your incoming presidency, mr persson, i welcome the choice made by sweden to adopt a particularly powerful slogan, based on the letter e. the letter e stands first and foremost for 'europe', which is our common objective and to which sweden will devote its best efforts over the next six months to make progress, particularly in the fields of enlargement, employment, the environment. but the letter e also stands for "euro". 2001 is the year that marks the beginning of the physical circulation of the single currency and is also the last year of many national currencies, some of which have a history of more than a century and which we, even personally, are fond of. the swedish presidency will therefore accompany us for part of the way towards the historic date of 1 january 2002. i should like to dwell for a moment on the three e's of the swedish presidency, as outlined by prime minister persson. these three priorities are well chosen because they cover all three areas where the union, and europe as a whole, will face enormous challenges and will be able to seize enormous opportunities. these are not just priorities for the next six months, to be forgotten immediately afterwards, but long-term challenges, chosen as the main objectives for the entire five-year term of the legislature. and as an enlargement, an enlargement. enlargement - it is worth repeating - is the greatest challenge facing the european union. we are at a crucial stage for the future of europe as a whole: we have the opportunity to create an area of peace, prosperity and stability extended to 500 million citizens, united by the same values. to make this process possible, we had to adopt a number of internal reforms. the treaty of nice, although not entirely satisfactory, is still a step in the right direction and allows us to continue along the road we have taken. for this reason, and also because nice, aware of its own limitations, envisages an after-nice, i would like to urge you to join this house in recommending to national parliaments, at the appropriate time, the ratification of the treaty of nice. i think it is clear that peace, stability and prosperity cannot stop at the borders of the european union, but must involve as many neighbouring and friendly countries as possible. i am therefore pleased to see that relations with russia are also among the priorities of the incoming presidency. the same strategy, which is aimed at building a substantial neighbourhood policy, is reflected in my recent trip to north africa. in fact, in the process of reuniting our continent, we must be careful not to neglect this dimension. the euro-mediterranean partnership is also central to our interests, and we are looking at ways of reviving and strengthening it. nor should we forget - and the presidency will certainly not forget - the nordic dimension of the union, which is of fundamental importance. the second e stands for employment. this priority is largely in line with the new economic and social agenda we agreed in lisbon. i fully share the commitment to take it forward. in particular, the commission welcomes the emphasis placed by the presidency on the modernisation of the labour market and the need to ensure equal opportunities for women and men in our society. modernising our economies means more jobs and promoting equal opportunities for men and women is an important aspect of the fight against discrimination. the commission will work closely with the presidency to contribute to the success of the stockholm summit, which will be largely devoted to these aspects. in this context, the commission intends to propose a new strategy for the creation of a european labour market by 2005, the details of which will be set out in the synthesis report we are preparing for the stockholm meeting. the third e is for environment, that is, environment. our fellow citizens are concerned about environmental and consumer protection issues, including - and this is particularly important these days - food safety. the recent events of the mad cow crisis are a most dramatic reminder of this and the commission has already taken concrete measures to deal with this emergency. we have a responsibility to future generations to ensure the sustainable development of our societies and to make our economies compatible, in the long term, with the balances of the planet. i look forward to working with the swedish presidency to provide the european union with an effective and coherent strategy for sustainable development. the gothenburg summit will have to take concrete and operative measures - i repeat, concrete and operative measures - in this fundamental area. in this context, the union must remain committed to taking a leading role on climate change issues. we must respect the commitments made in kyoto and keep up the pressure on our international partners to respect their own commitments made in kyoto. in this respect, the letter e also indicates a more conscious commitment to energy and a deep reflection on all aspects related to the supply, use, conservation and environmental compatibility of energy sources. i therefore welcome the emphasis the presidency has placed on these aspects. i have repeatedly called for a deeper european policy on transparency when speaking before this house, and i am pleased that prime minister persson has insisted on this and devoted a considerable part of his speech to it. citizen participation, both in the major decisions and in the daily life of europe and its institutions, is a priority for the commission. i would therefore like to assure the presidency of our full support for its efforts to promote openness and transparency. madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, the initiatives planned for this six-month period are ambitious and are bound - i am sure - to leave a lasting impression on the minds of our fellow citizens. however, i do not see the six-monthly presidencies as isolated acts, but rather as a continuous effort, as something that lasts over time. i therefore fully appreciate the effort made by the swedish prime minister to assure us that his work will build on the foundations laid by the intensive work of the previous presidency to enable the next one to carry on its work effectively. this is all the more true when we consider the decisive theme of the so-called post-nice period, namely the particular debate on the future of the union. the last time i spoke before this house i made clear my disappointment not only with certain aspects of the treaty just agreed but above all with the atmosphere which prevailed throughout the summit. fifteen member states, each of which was understandably concerned with its own national interests, could only reach an imperfect agreement in nice. (applause) moreover, most heads of state or government - and this is the most important point - have shown themselves more inclined to seek to secure the possibility of blocking future action by the union than to find a way of advancing the common cause. (applause) in this way, nice has clearly demonstrated what is meant by agreement on the lowest common denominator. it would be dangerous to delude ourselves that we can go on this way. i returned from nice with the confirmation of a conviction that i already had and that i had already manifested before you: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial resources of the community are used to the full. (applause) we must therefore draw some lessons for the debate on the future of the union, which takes us up to 2004, although it is still too early to have a complete picture of it. the first lesson is that nothing positive or lasting can be done to secure europe's future without involving the european forces at work immediately, including, of course, the forces of all the candidate countries. in my view, the path leading up to 2004 can be divided into three distinct phases: the commission has already started a first phase, which we could call open reflection - we are doing it today - during which it is good that the widest possible debate on the future of europe takes place at all levels of civil, political and scientific society. each of us must contribute to stimulating and multiplying the discussion. we must therefore give concrete meaning to our objective of achieving a balanced and stable system in 2004 which will enable the enlarged union to function in a democratic, legitimate and effective way. the contribution of european democratic political parties is crucial to anchoring this debate in civil society. in this connection, i should like to arrange a meeting with the leaders of the political groups in this parliament in the near future. i hope that through this exchange of views we can reach operational conclusions on the objectives to be pursued and the instruments to be used to achieve them. this debate must be open and without pre-established limits. in particular, it goes without saying that the worst way to deal with this would be to confine ourselves to the four themes of the nice declaration, because this is the 'post-nice' era. these issues - the charter of fundamental rights, the simplification of the treaty, the clarification of the powers and the possibility of a second chamber - are obviously very important. some have been the subject of considerable work, as in the case of the restructuring of the treaty, but these issues are only elements of a basic reflection which must be both wider and deeper (applause) and which is effectively summed up in the very title of the declaration of the heads of state and government, when they asked themselves the question: "what do we want for the future of europe? i hope that this house, through the political parties represented in it, will play its full part not only in expressing the democratic legitimacy of the community's decisionmaking process but also in bridging the gap between national political parties and the public opinion which they represent. (applause) i would like to thank i urge you to do so, and i will be at your side in this endeavour. i believe that is necessary for the future of europe. the commission, for its part, intends to engage in a broad and open dialogue with european companies and with the actors in the union's political systems. this is the first stage. the second stage should begin immediately after the laeken summit in december. this phase, which we might call structured reflection, is the most delicate and will have to be centred around an operational summary of the opinions gathered during the previous phase. it cannot be confined to purely intergovernmental negotiations behind closed doors. this is the lesson of nice. in laeken we will have to invent a new formula, one which meets the needs of openness and legitimacy. the third and inevitable stage will necessarily be a new intergovernmental conference in the proper sense of the word. i think this conference could be brief, conclusive and decisive. all three adjectives are important: short, conclusive and decisive. as i said, the debate we are launching must be open-ended, because, as has been stressed in recent days, it is essentially a question of the structure of political life in a union of 25 or more members. but i would be failing in my convictions and duty if i did not recall, once again, as they remain relevant, the concerns i expressed in this house on 3 october last. i am firmly convinced that the community method, its rationalization, its simplification and its enlargement are the future, not the past, of the union. the dynamics of the union over the last 40 years, and particularly since maastricht, have produced a political system sui generis, which cannot be reduced to a national model. the union is democratic, that is to say, it is based on two legitimations: the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the council, and that the european parliament is represented in the council. so there is a double democratic legitimacy: it's not true that there's no legitimacy. the union is effective, not just democratic, because it is built around an institution, the commission, which is an independent executive body, but which remains attentive to the balances and interests of all member states, large and small. the commission is the necessary condition for the community to be able to pool its sovereignty and thus to face the great challenges of the future, such as enlargement. thirdly, the union is auditable, because the court of justice ensures that the common rules are respected by all. in this context, the debate on what should or should not be done, at european and national level, with regard to concrete government action, is most appropriate and is a consequence of this debate. the cohesion and cohesion of the union and its member states must be strengthened. we must absolutely avoid any fragmentation of the community decisionmaking process and, in particular, any fragmentation of the executive action, as this is contrary to the objective we have set ourselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. only consistent action, revised in the light of the principle of subsidiarity and a clearer vision of the governance of europe, and structured around the institutional triangle in accordance with the community method, can guarantee this result. madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a period of intense commitment and initiative. the challenges are great, but so is our determination. the commission will work closely with the various presidencies to complete our great task. i am counting on all of you, ladies and gentlemen of the european political community and members of this parliament, and i am counting on your willingness to cooperate with us. (loud and prolonged applause)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mr president, you have offered the european parliament and the political groups good cooperation. we're happy to take up the matter, there are good contacts. i can say on behalf of our group that we will support you fully in your proposals if you put community europe first and not intergovernmental cooperation, cooperation between governments, which we strongly oppose in the community framework. there must be no relapse into intergovernmental cooperation! (applause from the centre) you have a very friendly neighbour, as is sweden. the community is a little more widely known in finland, and i would like to see finland and sweden agreeing on these matters. they are in the continuity of previous presidencies and are thus taking over a mortgage, namely that of the treaty of nice. i cannot agree with you that the treaty of nice is a success, as you have shown here. but a mortgage is also an opportunity because you can take the burden off. we want to work with you in the coming weeks and months to reduce the burden of the mortgage in nice. that is why we, the group of the european people's party and the european democrats, are not saying either yes or no to the treaty of nice at this stage. i have just handed over to the presidency of the council, represented by mr danielsson, the resolution of the european people's party from the berlin congress. romano prodi, our commission president, spoke of the need to work closely together, not only within the framework of our european parties, but with national parties. our epp congress, without any opposition, with the votes of all 42 national parties, adopted the principles i would like to put to you: firstly, the system of the intergovernmental conference. a conference that drags on for weeks and months must be a thing of the past, it is not a model for the future. we are determined not to stick to the old system. (applause from the centre) secondly, we call on you to start preparations quite quickly under your presidency and then to take a decision in laeken under the belgian presidency. we call on you to set up a conference based on the methodology and the model of the convention, with the strong participation of the european parliament and of course the national governments, but above all the commission. we call on you to open the debate soon and we also call on you, mr president-in-office, to eliminate the errors which arise from the treaty of nice before the treaty is signed. we heard that poland was to be given fewer votes in the council of ministers than spain. that was corrected because it was supposedly just a typo. there is another typo: the czech republic and hungary, which have the same population as belgium and portugal, are said to have only 20 meps, the other two countries 22. let us give the czech republic and hungary 22 meps in the european parliament and let us not start enlargement by discriminating against these two countries! you can correct that before you sign, because if it is only a technical error, it does not require political decisions. finally, the question of transparency. we are very concerned to see that, also because of the actions of the general secretariat of the council of ministers - and mr solana, whom i highly respect, is more concerned with the role of the high representative - at the head of the general secretariat of the council of ministers, there are some blocks, that there is no desire to give information to the commission or to the european parliament. we are not going to be able to do that. (applause from the centre) mr president, since i read carefully all that the distinguished prime minister and president-in-office of the council says, i have taken note of your speech to the nordic club on 5 october, and you place great hopes in the council of ministers. i hope maastricht has taught you a better lesson! the council of ministers does not need to be strengthened, it needs to be made more transparent and it needs to be reformed so that the doors of the council of ministers are also opened to the public. the third point is enlargement. we are in agreement that enlargement is a moral, historical and political obligation for us and that it must not be delayed, whatever the outcome of our decision in nice. a final remark: europe's competitiveness must be strengthened. you have said many good things about the euro. i agree with you, but have the courage to strengthen the euro in europe by telling the people in your country that the euro is a necessity, and sweden is joining us on this path. (applause from the centre) i wish you success, and if you succeed, we succeed together. you are not a member of our party, but i wish you success because the biggest e is at stake, namely europe, and that is why we must work together. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the presidency of the council for its positive attitude to the stockholm summit and its desire to achieve economic sustainability in the interests of full employment, economic reform, innovation and the future viability of the european union. what we need in stockholm is not a deregulation summit. we need a summit that makes clear at what level everything is best regulated in the european union so that we can really make progress in using the internal market not only in the interests of the economy but also in the interests of people, of workers. i would therefore like to ask the swedish presidency of the council: if you want to bring about greater transparency and democracy, particularly in the context of economic policy coordination, then start by involving the european parliament in the macroeconomic dialogue, in all initiatives and in the elaboration of the broad lines of economic policy. we shall be presenting our proposals for the first time in the context of a legislative procedure. we shall see whether the swedish presidency of the council actually catches this ball for overcoming the democratic deficit and proceeds pragmatically in small steps. this is a very warm request from the european parliament, which has been advocating for an interinstitutional agreement to this effect since 1994. i would ask the presidency of the council to follow up the lisbon process consistently, by giving equal weight to all the policy areas mentioned there. this means that we are actually implementing an appropriate and sufficient policy mix, pursuing a policy of social inclusion, full employment, economic reforms with clear timetables and also qualitative features. this applies also to fiscal policy, because we must also make clear through investment policy that the people of europe can achieve added value through cooperation at european level, through investment in people, but also in infrastructure. a final remark to the swedish presidency: it is our hope that you will enable the citizens, who are for the most part very concerned, to experience the introduction of the euro without fear. the european union must be able to play a full part in the process of european integration, and the european union must be able to play a full part in the process of european integration. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the debate has made it very clear that the majority of members of the european parliament are disappointed with the outcome of nice. the real reason for this is as follows: in nice, transparency and democracy for the european union fell by the wayside. what happened? what happened? we are seeing qualified majority voting in the council prevail in more and more areas. this makes it impossible for the national parliaments to exercise control, since their decisions can be overruled by corresponding majorities in the council. but unfortunately this democratic control has not been replaced by democratic control by the european parliament, nor has it been replaced by the european parliament's co-decision. i believe that this is the fundamental weakness of what was decided in nice. mr president-in-office, sweden has a great tradition of democracy and transparency. i am convinced and i expect the swedish presidency of the council to support us in our efforts to make up for this lack of nice and to reinforce the legitimacy of democratic decision-making in the european union. i would like to make a second point. during the swedish presidency of the council, preparations must be made for the introduction of the euro, i.e. the introduction of banknotes and coins in 12 countries of the european union. the question we keep asking ourselves is: who is the external representative of the euro? i am convinced that the european commission should do more than it has done so far. the french presidency has given us clear information. the president of euro 12 then represents the euro externally. this in turn leads to a paradoxical situation. in general economic policy matters, the swedish minister for finance represents the european union externally, whereas in the case of the euro, the belgian minister for finance does so. we in the european parliament do not understand this, so how can the citizens of the european union understand it? how are the markets to take that? we must do everything we can to bring about a reasonable situation here! you can make an important contribution to this, mr foreign minister. if you can convince your fellow countrymen that the euro is a good project, that it is stable internally, that its external stability is also getting better, if you can convince them to contribute to this great work of european integration, you will also help to make this area of the european union better understood by the citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr simpson, you are a man of great integrity. many of your statements are not without their validity. it is true that in 1989 the liberalization package made it clear that the european community must not only ensure that fair competition takes place but also ensure that safety is guaranteed in air transport. the amendment to the regulation which we are proposing is also aimed at this, and i think it is right that the european institutions should clearly assume their responsibilities. this means that if we have the responsibility for regulating aviation safety in europe, we must act accordingly. but on the other hand we must also make it clear that parliament and political bodies such as the commission and the council should not ignore the vote of experts. i therefore welcome the fact that we have had a very objective debate in the committee and that no one has really tried to go into the details of technical rules in order to bring political knowledge beyond the knowledge of experts. you have also rightly pointed out, as i think is quite clear, that there must be a regulation on working hours, and i am surprised that despite this long process the social partners have not been able to bring about a regulation until now. i therefore think it is right that we in parliament should make it clear once again that we expect the social partners - airlines and employee representatives - to fulfil their obligations. we are prepared to incorporate this into this regulation at second reading. on the other hand, we are equally prepared to put in place our own rules if the social partners do not fulfil their obligations, because one thing is quite clear: aviation safety must come first. however, aviation safety does not come from regulations alone, and especially not from over-regulation. i would therefore like to make it very clear that, while we largely agree with your report, we do not think it appropriate for parliament to introduce its own detailed bases in this regulation in certain areas, such as the keyword 'only flight attendant' or the length of employment, i.e. how long someone has been working as a flight attendant. i am sorry, therefore, that we will not be able to support your amendments nos 9 and 10, which have had an impact on this motion. i was somewhat surprised at the intensity with which the committee on transport dealt with and discussed the question of hand luggage. i do not think that is a trick for a parliament, and i can only say to mr simpson and my other colleagues: let the airlines do this, it is not the job of members!
mr president, madam vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i think this regulation is extremely important, and we as the european parliament have been working since 1987 to improve air safety. this includes the need to regulate the flight and rest periods of both the cockpit crew and the flight attendants. i share the view of my predecessors that we should give the unions and the airlines one last chance to settle this question by mutual agreement and in a factual manner. but we agreed that they must agree by may next year. madam vice-president, tell your staff that when may is over, we will no longer be playing the game that has been played for six years, namely that the commission has been waiting for an agreement between the parties. the parties have not reached an agreement. the commission has been so polite and has not made any proposals of its own. either the parties agree by may, or we expect the commission to make a proposal which we can incorporate into the second reading, because there is no way that the crucial question of passenger safety, namely whether the captains, the crews, are rested enough to carry out their duties, will not be regulated. these questions must be settled. let me address a second point which came to my attention at the december council. if we take a position at first reading, with the final vote of this parliament tomorrow, then i - and my colleagues certainly will - insist that the council adopt a common position. he can wait until may, until the two parties have agreed. but in the interests of the safety of passengers in europe we cannot accept that nothing is decided in the air transport sector until the so-called solution of the gibraltar conflict has been reached! the commission and we should look at this together. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the devastating 42 000 deaths on the roads of the european union every year, the estimated 1.7 million people injured, are a constant reminder that road safety is a very important and priority issue. not only is there immense personal suffering behind these figures, but they also represent enormous economic losses or costs. the estimates are €100 billion, which is about 2% of the gross domestic product of all european member states. this is more than all the member states of the european union spend on culture combined. i would like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteur and particularly welcome her focus on three areas of priority: accident prevention, damage prevention and treatment and rehabilitation. in my view, this shows that road safety cannot be improved to the extent required by taking individual measures, but that this can only be done by a whole set of measures, including traffic education, speed limitation, alcohol control, better road construction, traffic control systems, increased safety standards for vehicles, stronger controls on compliance with the rules of the road and also a permanent assessment of vehicles on the road. i therefore very much regret that the amendment to harmonize the re-registration of accidents in the european union was not adopted, despite the fact that independent expertise clearly shows a substantial link between vehicles that have been involved in an accident and the re-participation in accidents with a high death toll. i would like to comment briefly on my predecessor. you know that i have tabled an amendment which deals specifically with the problem of motorcyclists and guideboards, and i would be glad if you and your group could agree to it tomorrow, since i am a motorcyclist myself and therefore of course very familiar with this problem.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can only support the commission in not proposing a community regulation on blood alcohol. it is a hypocritical debate, a completely hypocritical debate, that my colleagues are having! the socialists and we decided together a year ago, when we were reviewing the proposals from the last period, that we did not want community legislation. our point is, we want to be controlled! that's the crucial question, not what the law says! the key is to check the site. i can only reply to my english colleague that if your english police were to control christmas, you would take people out of traffic and prevent accidents. i would therefore like to repeat that the control of blood alcohol levels is the key and not a community regulation. we shall therefore reject the first part of amendment no 4. if you do this, my group will reject mrs petersen's entire resolution because it is a hypocritical debate to demand community legislation which is not needed at all. talk to your countries. most countries are like the consensus in this house for 0.5 per thousand. that is quite enough, as the commission has rightly said. we recommend that all these countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. so, it's not about a sham debate or what's in the law, but that the police check in on the spot and fish out anyone who's driving drunk. then we have the greatest safety in road traffic. secondly, we will not accept amendment no 6, which is another attempt by the greens to introduce another sham debate, namely a general speed limit of 120 km/h. we already have speed limits on most of europe's roads. in my country, there are speed limits on 95 percent of all road surfaces. where do the accidents happen? on 95% of the road surfaces, because here too, the speed is not adequately controlled. so, less laws and more controls, we have achieved more for road safety!
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the most common cause of death and serious injury among children and young people, and indeed in general among eu citizens under the age of 45, is road traffic accidents. we must no longer accept this as an inevitable fate, but must do something about it. the first is that we no longer believe that road safety depends primarily on how well road users behave. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of road transport is not compromised by the lack of safety standards. it is up to us to give this problem a proper political priority. there is hardly a policy area for which the eu, the member states, regional and local authorities and relevant organisations are recognised as having joint responsibility. so subsidiarity applies here to a very special degree. this is why we should not underestimate the added value of eu action compared with the efforts of the member states. calculations of the economic costs of road accidents show that they are much higher than the costs of preventing road accidents. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. but beware, let us not be deceived. not always: the higher the financial commitment, the higher the level of safety achievable. the commission has also launched a series of initiatives to promote the use of new technologies in the transport sector, such as the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the introduction of a european road safety directive, the european road safety directive, the european road safety directive, the european road safety directive, the european road safety, the european road safety, the future, the future, the future of the future of the future of the future of the future of the future of the future. i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs hedkvist petersen, on her excellent report and recommend that it be approved.
mr president, on a point of order. if i have understood my colleague correctly, then it is enough to have a recommendation that the uk government will lower the blood-alcohol level.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in transport policy, intermodal transport is not yet receiving the attention it should. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. that is why it is often not taken seriously enough. but intermodal freight transport is both the expression and the test of the european integration strategy, which aims to integrate not only the individual national transport markets but also the different modes of transport. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the internal market is not a mere mere 'market' of a single market, but a market of a single market. the progress reports on the implementation of the action programme for intermodal transport therefore also reflect the progress of european transport policy. the commission's communication and report have raised many, if not all, of the important points of concern. the revision of the transeuropean networks towards a truly intermodal network, measures to create added value in logistics, the harmonisation still needed for loading units and more, truly intermodal information, standardised reports and documents, promotion of intermodal liability rules and much more. we all know that a whole range of regulatory measures are needed to make intermodal transport truly sustainable. because the framework conditions are so complex and because the development of intermodal transport is far from being a self-sustaining process, we need a large number of successful demonstration projects. i therefore hope that we will have a well-equipped new pact programme which will also be useful for the applicant countries, because that is where much of our future is decided. not all the courses are wrong there. i also hope that we will place intermodal transport in the vith research framework programme in an appropriate way. in our view, pilot projects should also be used more strategically in future, i.e. to link existing intermodal sub-networks. another aspect which has not yet been discussed in this way is that it may be possible to examine the conditions for the creation of new european intermodal players. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. perhaps an international company could set an example by managing trans-alpine traffic across the alps, at least in theory. we are also, of course, in favour of the european reference centre, which has been announced time and again, and we hope that it will soon be a reality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i would like to pay a great deal of praise to mr paolo costa, after years of very heated debate in this house on the question of the right way to charge for travel costs. he has succeeded in achieving a broad consensus on his report. i hope, madam commissioner, madam vice-president, that after the vote tomorrow you will go over all the drafts of the white paper on transport policy again and check whether they are in line with the line proposed by this house. the commission normally makes proposals with the member states in mind, and perhaps in the future with parliament in mind. i believe that the costa report is an opportunity to rethink some of the habits that are so dear to us in the services. i also hope that we will not confuse the subject of the white paper with that of the transeuropean networks. the revision of the transeuropean networks is imminent, both are important issues. i think it would be extremely unwise to put them before parliament in a package, because they are separate subjects. i would like to make a few comments on the costa report. amendment no 1 makes it clear that we want to have road-related reimbursement, which can be demonstrated by the cost of construction, expansion and improvement. that's the first thing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport infrastructure is not affected by the increase in the number of road accidents. firstly, that the single market in this area is finally achieved. if you consider that we still have huge distortions of competition due to different fiscal and other burdens between member states, and this is 8 or 9 years after the completion of the internal market on 31 december 1992, then the question of equality of competition inevitably arises. secondly, we all actually think that after the explosive increases in oil prices last year, as we want to change to have a fairer, more environmentally friendly system, the overall burden on companies must not increase. we don't want to have a price war. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. firstly, parliament decided in toto about three years ago to work out on a scientific basis what external costs actually are. how are they predictable and how are they chargeable? we never got that report. secondly, when calculating these external costs, we also differentiate. just one example: the cost of traffic jams. it would be absurd to charge a company for the traffic jams caused by the failure of the member states to improve the roads, and then ask the company which has higher fuel and labour costs to pay additional taxes to the state which caused the traffic jams.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the costa report has the merit of having re-launched the discussion on a common framework for the collection of transport infrastructure charges. the functioning of the internal market requires a functioning transport system in which all transport operators enjoy equal or at least comparable conditions of competition. the gradual harmonisation of transport infrastructure charges is the most important step in this direction. it is true that the way in which costs are calculated is important for the maintenance, operation and construction of infrastructure, whether it is the total cost or the marginal cost, whether it is the marginal social cost or the net social cost. but almost more important for equal opportunities in competition is that you agree, and as soon as possible. the only thing to remember is that if we are to achieve fair competition between the different modes of transport, we need what we always discuss under the implementation of external costs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not left behind. i shall be discussing this with mr jarzembowski elsewhere, but i have only two minutes. we urgently need a heavy goods vehicle tax based on kilometres travelled throughout europe, and we could also consider reducing car taxes. many transport associations now feel the same way. only if we collect polluter-related costs will we have a market-compliant instrument to deal with the looming crisis in freight transport, because we all know the next leaps in freight traffic volumes: growth through eastern enlargement, through e-commerce, on top of the previous growth rates.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to apologize. it is not a statement on yesterday's minutes, but on the minutes of the day before yesterday. i'm sorry, i saw too late that i'm not on the attendance list. but i have been here all day and i have taken part in all the votes by name and otherwise. i therefore ask that this be corrected.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as rapporteur on the committee on foreign affairs and security on the preparations for the czech republic's accession, i have a request to make to you. we have learned that a member of the czech house of representatives, mr ivan pilip, has been arrested in cuba. he's obviously being accused of espionage. the truth is that he met with civil rights activists and did what a freely elected member of parliament should do. i would ask you, mr president, to urge the cuban authorities to release mr pilip and his companions immediately, because the cuban regime has no moral right to try to teach democracy to members of a freely elected parliament. i ask you all the more to do so, since a meeting of the interparliamentary union is to be held in cuba in april of this year. it is not, of course, justified that such a meeting should take place in a country where members are arrested for speaking to civil rights activists!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. how do we achieve gender balance in working life, both in the private sector and in public institutions, both at european and national levels? we need an effective strategy that leads to positive action. the fight against misunderstanding and outdated role clichés must be taken up. our image is of the self-confident women who are very well placed in leadership positions and are actively involved in the life of the community. but they must be able to manage domestic tasks as well as professional requirements. on behalf of the epp/ed group, i congratulate mrs karamanou on a report which contains many important passages, such as the call to enhance the role of women or to tackle the far too low presence of women in management and decision-making bodies in companies, but also in trade unions. the lack of equal opportunities in the labour market must be countered by promoting talent at an early stage. we also support the call for gender-specific statistics to produce meaningful real and target analyses. we are in favour of cooperation between the two sexes and therefore want to see the contribution of women's concerns, perspectives and experiences. they do indeed enrich the world of men. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. that is why half of them voted for the report, the other half against it, in a fairly evenly divided vote. the main concerns were raised by me and astrid lulling in the form of four motions. the commission has already agreed to one of them: that work and family should not be seen as a double disadvantage faced by women, but as a double burden which they must and can cope with. another motion opposes the provision that women must be trained to advance, for example in public speaking and self-confident appearance. first, men also have significant deficits. secondly, many women today do not wait for financial help. you're doing it yourself, you've already done it. the two main requests, however, concern the rejection of the establishment of quotas. we know that the rules vary from one member state to another. some have quotas, some have quotations. the first is a kind of zipper system, i.e. one man and one woman, and the second stipulates that parties must pay fines if the proportion of women on the lists is not sufficiently secured. the principle of subsidiarity must apply here. it is not possible that individual measures in the member states should be taken out the back door at european level. in other places, governments are called upon to examine the disparities created by different electoral systems. that is not the job of governments. that is the task of the parties. they should determine this and determine their electoral lists precisely beforehand. that is their job, not the governments. these motions are so important to us that we have asked for a roll-call vote. if you support us in this, mrs karamanou, your report will probably have a large majority. if you care about equal opportunities, you have to make sure that not only the objective is right, but also that the details are right. the more specific we are, the more credibility we will have, especially among those who have not yet had enough experience in this area, and the more likely we are to have a broad consensus today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. my socialist group has come forward to give every citizen of the eu access to decision-making at local, regional, national and european level. the equal participation of women in political and social decision-making is not only a legitimate right but a social necessity. we are not enriching the world of men, but we are sharing this world of men in all areas. we will continue to fight at the beginning of the new millennium with our colleague karamanou, whom i warmly thank for her persistent work to move towards the goal of equal distribution of power between men and women. it has been a long journey, from the first women's suffrage in finland in 1904 to equal voting rights in france, and it will be a long journey before we take for granted that women presidents, mayors, ministers and party leaders are part of our daily lives. the european union has made considerable progress in this area. we have now been able to increase the proportion of women in parliament to 30%, and by the way, in the left-wing groups it is much higher than in the conservative and more right-wing groups. we have 25% of women in the commission, 24.8% in the governments of the member states and 22.5% in the national parliaments. i am proud that good news is coming from my country. we have now achieved a 37.5% share of women in the german federal government - including my group, my political family - with a change of government in germany. we are therefore taking a bold and decisive stance on the question of equality, with the demands of the karamanou report. i can only ask the house to follow the rapporteur's lead on these three questions just put by mr mann, that is to say, the original text which the committee has also put forward. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. we have also supported the quotas in the report on the beijing world conference on women. it's the right way to keep all the instruments open.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. equal treatment in all areas is not yet a given. we all agree. but we also know very well that participation, whether by women or men, cannot be charged in a blanket way. the relevant field, expertise and jurisdiction are also decided on a case-by-case basis. this must be a decisive factor for men and women applying for office, position or membership of a body. but we ask the right question: is it always like this? do we not still have prejudices against a person or a sex? the kindergarten teacher, the woman in the fire department, they're still isolated cases. the commission's proposal is to make the european union more flexible in its approach to the problem of equal opportunities for men and women. in general, this underrepresentation is not due to a lack of skills and abilities. a woman must always prove herself extra, not only the skill is decisive, but the whole living environment. children, family, even the simple idea of the weaker sex, blocks the way. for too long, we've been preaching to women that you have to be better than your competition. that is why it is necessary to keep society awake with reports like this one, to keep things going. the double burden of family and professional responsibilities cannot, in my view, be regarded as discrimination, nor is it a double disadvantage as described in recital d. the ability to combine family and work is more likely to indicate a high level of organisational talent and a life experience not to be underestimated, which must be regarded as a special qualification for leaders. family work must be as much a matter for men as it is for women, and we women, all of us discussing this this morning, could not do this if we did not have - if the family is there - the men, the fathers at home, who were also committed to the family. but unfortunately we are not quite there yet, and the saying still applies: a family is the back of the man, and the woman is the back of the woman. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. i doubt that simply asking for quotas and percentages is the right way to increase participation, nor can it be the role of parliament here to ask for a 40% participation rate in all policy areas at national and international level. the awareness of this must grow, and in order to do so, we need balanced reports and discussion papers which highlight the positive aspects of cooperation, and that is why i am asking for support for the motions for resolutions tabled by the epp group.
madam president, that is exactly what we feared when the friday session was cancelled: that we would then be unable to work on thursday afternoon. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, the epp/ed group voted against the karamanou report by a majority. this signal can be misinterpreted or even used to polemicise against us. we are not against equal opportunities, and certainly not in favour of discrimination against women. we agree with the principles which were set out by commissioner diamantopoulou in the debate this morning at the end of the debate. we are in favour of mainstreaming in business and public institutions, in education, training and culture. we are in favour of building political networks and we need european indicators, such as the benchmarking procedure. we are also in favour of concrete actions and measures being implemented in the eu member states. we have proved this in the countries where christian democrats and conservatives are responsible. in our parties, women have been proven to be successful in leadership positions. for example, in germany, in my party, the cdu, a woman is in charge, and in the epp/de group, a considerable number of national delegation leaders are women. the aim of achieving equality is therefore beyond doubt, as is also reflected in the speeches made by my colleagues and myself this morning. the rapporteur, mrs karamanou, and her socialist group were not prepared to support our proposals which reject the establishment of quotas throughout europe. in the member states of the european union there are different systems for the adequate participation of women in terms of numbers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is the principle of subsidiarity. the attempt to accuse my group, because of the majority rejection of the karamanou report, of being against the balanced participation of women and men in the decisionmaking process is therefore doomed to fail. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to disagree with you, mr deprez. i understand your situation, but we only established the agenda at the beginning of the week, and what mr ferri said this morning was wrong. he said that his report was on the agenda this morning. read the agenda. it is a debate from 5.30 to 6.30 p.m. and his report was at the bottom of the list, together with the deprez report. that is to say, it was clear from the outset that the deprez and ferri reports would be discussed and put to the vote tonight, and i have prepared for that and i insist on it. the president said this afternoon that the vote would be at 6 p.m. instead of 6:30 p.m. and that the urgency would end at 5:30 p.m. that means we have half an hour to cover the subject. i am the vice-president of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, and i can tell you that if colleagues are not present, i am happy to take over their entire speaking time and comment on the excellent deprez report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the last statement by mr posselt, the threat that he would speak for 20 minutes at a time on the deprez report, would be a real argument for postponing the report now. the basic problem is a different one. mr posselt has said all that needs to be said. what we are witnessing here - we have already discussed this at lunchtime and again on monday and tuesday - is, i say this very drastically, the attempt to systematically destroy the strasbourg seat of parliament. you can do that with methods like this. mr posselt, even if it were really an enrichment for you to speak for 20 minutes - i could speak for 20 minutes because no one from our group is here - the fact would be that the work which mr deprez has carried out very carefully would not be discussed here to the extent that would be appropriate. i can therefore understand mr deprez's wish that his report be dealt with properly in the house on the basis of the guidelines which have been developed in committee and which are to be reflected in the plenary. i therefore really understand why such an important report is being postponed and would recommend that we comply with mr deprez's request.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have just seen how, after friday, they are trying to demolish thursday, partly by calling into question these urgent debates. i would like to say, however, that the cambodian issue in particular is a proof of the importance of our urgent debates. the cambodian genocide was, as mr tannock rightly said, largely ignored in the 1980s. nobody cared about cambodia. it was this house which, although it had almost no powers at the time, became the first moral voice of oppressed peoples since the first direct elections in 1979. it has been involved in the fate of the cambodian people in a very special way. i remember that in the 1980s our colleague otto von habsburg - i was his colleague at the time - systematically brought up the subject of cambodia. and if the cambodians wanted to make contact with the peoples of europe, they did so through the urgent debate in the european parliament in strasbourg. a politician who died recently, son san, a democrat who had to walk the hard road between the khmer rouge on the one hand and the pro-vietnamese puppet regime on the other, has been taking the reestablishment of a democratic cambodia step by step, with the help of the eu and the european parliament in particular. today we can build on that and i am very happy that this terrible genocide by the khmer rouge is now being brought to justice. but it is also positive - and i would like to give my colleague mrs iivari her full support - that we as the european union have the opportunity to actively support democracy, the rule of law and pluralism in cambodia today. but we should take this example to show that it is not always about absolute power. i am glad that the house has now more powers in foreign policy than it did 20 years ago. it is important that those who are deprived have a moral voice, and that is one of the most important duties of this house.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. our delegation in the european parliament for the south caucasus is very concerned about the dramatic events taking place there at the moment. the unilateral introduction of a visa requirement for georgia, with the exclusion of two territories under its jurisdiction, is creating new divisions in a country which belongs to the council of europe and which wants to develop democratically and with which we have concluded an agreement to support it in all its fields. the consequences of these developments are tensions with the neighbouring states, major obstacles for the georgians themselves, who are working partly in the russian federation and are now having difficulties. to get the visa, they should go back to tbilisi. some of them can't afford it. on the other hand, these disruptions have economic consequences. we are very concerned about this, especially because the whole of the south caucasus is a hotbed of commercial interests and also of europe because of its oil reserves. we should not just worry about it, but do everything we can. we know from our georgian friends in the national parliaments and from the embassy that contacted us that they are really in distress and fear further developments, especially as a wedge is being driven between armenia and azerbaijan, which seemingly, from moscow's point of view, are proving to be bigger friends. georgia fears being isolated. so these are really dramatic events. at the end of december, even the gas pipeline from russia to georgia was shut down, allegedly because it had not been paid, although the financing is quite different. so these are all things that, when you reason them logically, sound quite harmless, but they show us that the situation has escalated dramatically in the last six months. we therefore ask the commission to consider with the council whether we should not better deal with these conflicts, whether we should not take decisions that are in the right direction, help the people there who want to build a democratic society and need peaceful visions of the future, and support georgia so that it can respect human rights and fulfil the other commitments it has made in the council of europe. in these more difficult circumstances it is very difficult for georgia to comply with all that is actually a human obligation today. that is why i am asking the commission to do something about it. we have made demands and there is broad agreement in parliament, across the political groups, that something must be done. let us work together to find solutions that will make peaceful development possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to give my full support to mrs schleicher, who is very committed to the caucasus region and in this case particularly to georgia. we all know what these reprisals are about. on the one hand, they are geostrategic interests and energy and oil interests, and on the other hand, they are the brutal war of extermination currently being waged against the chechen people. we can see very clearly that, after chechnya, there is an attempt to destabilise georgia. we are all interested in stabilizing the already very fragile statehood and weak democratic approaches in this region and in georgia. i would therefore appeal to the commissioner to give this area even more attention than before. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i am pleased that a delegation from our neighbour, the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, is currently in chechnya, and i would like to appeal to the commissioner to go to georgia and chechnya soon and take a close look at the human rights situation there, as the council of europe is doing intensively. i call on the commissioner to make our humanitarian aid the number one political priority for the usa and for russia, the caucasus region has long been a priority, because i feel that the european union, apart from mrs schleicher, who is doing a great job, is sleeping through this challenge. we cannot, after the balkans, where we woke up too late, take the blame for acting too late and too weakly a second time.
commission. – the commission shares parliament's concern about the situation of the turkish prisoners who are still on hunger strike. the health of certain of these prisoners is a matter of serious concern. it calls upon the turkish authorities to seek a peaceful solution. in any event, the turkish security forces should exercise restraint. concerning the operations conducted by police and army in 20 prisons in december last year, the commission expects that investigations will be carried out into the causes of the deaths and the casualties which occurred during these operations and that those responsible will be identified. allegations of torture and ill treatment of prisoners during their transfer after the operations should also be investigated. the commission recalls that the improvement of detention conditions in turkish prisons is addressed in the accession partnership for turkey which received political approval by the council on 4 december 2000. in the accession partnership, the improvement of the detention conditions to bring them into line with the un standard minimum rules for the treatment of prisoners and other international norms is considered as a priority. turning now to algeria, i can say the following: the commission backs the algerian authorities' efforts to bring about national reconciliation and end the violence. democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms are key principles that the european union applies even-handedly to all its partners. we applaud algeria's acceptance of the relevant clause in the negotiations for an association agreement. the violence, however, produces new victims every month. we are particularly concerned by the upsurge of violence during ramadan which claimed many lives across the country. algeria must also find a way of addressing the past crimes of terrorists who have renounced violence. though understanding the difficulty of tackling terrorism in algeria, the commission nevertheless remains concerned at the human rights violations and, in particular, the disappearances. it is vital that resolute action be taken against retrograde moves and violations in the matter of human rights. we continue to raise these issues at every level of the political dialogue with the algerian authorities. mr prodi, for example, stressed the need to restore peace throughout the country during his visit to algiers on 12 and 13 january. as part of this approach and in order to provide material support for algeria's efforts, the commission, represented by mr prodi, has signed financing agreements granting eur 13 million for two human rights projects. one consists of support for the country's media and journalists and the other one relates to modernisation and educating the police force, making it able to work as a police force should in a democracy.
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate, that is to say at 5.30 p.m. as you know, after the debate on the current situation, we will have a short break until 5.30 p.m., when we will decide whether or not to debate the deprez report. the vote will take place immediately after the debate on the deprez report, i.e. at 5.30 p.m. instead of 6.30 p.m.
- doc. b5-0060/2001 by mrs malmström, on behalf of the eldr group, on the ratification of the treaty of rome establishing a permanent international criminal court; - b5-0067/2001 by mrs frassoni and others, on behalf of the green group, on the rapid establishment of an effective permanent international criminal court; - b5-0073/2001 by mr salafranca sánchez-neyra and mr posselt, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the ratification of the treaty of rome establishing a permanent international criminal court; - b5-0078/2001 by mr sakellariou and others, on behalf of the pse group, on the ratification of the treaty of rome establishing a permanent international criminal court; - b5-0085/2001 by mr di lello finuoli and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the international criminal court.
mr president, just to make a quick point, the next speaker has been announced, mr franz xaver mayer. but i am speaking for our group, mr hans-peter mayer. one is a first-class agricultural politician, the other a first-class lawyer. i just wanted to make that clear to you so we're clear on who's gonna be speaking.
- thank you very much, mr posselt. you are, in a sense, the service overseer. you 're not missing anything ! thank you so much for the information. i would have noticed that immediately, because the real mr. mayer is also in the room.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in fact, it is quite confusing when even the parliamentary administration is unable to distinguish between two persons with the same name. sometimes the mail gets a little confused. the united nations revived the idea of an international criminal court after the horrors of world war ii. the violations of international law in yugoslavia and the massacres in rwanda were also reasons for this. some ask: what is the international criminal court's jurisdiction in contrast with the existing courts? the court of justice of the european union, based in luxembourg, decides on the application and interpretation of the treaties of the european union. the international court of justice in the hague decides on disputes between states. the international court of human rights in strasbourg rules on state violations of the rights of the convention on human rights. the international criminal court is now being set up for the four most serious crimes: genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and crimes of aggression. the united nations has so far authorized special tribunals, such as the ad hoc criminal tribunals for the crimes in yugoslavia and rwanda. in the future, the international criminal court will clearly signal that each of these crimes will be prosecuted and punished. war criminals can no longer hide behind the borders of sovereignty. the new court of justice is an important achievement for the community in bridging the gaps in the criminal justice system. i would therefore like to call on all member states to ratify the statute soon and i recommend that the resolution be adopted.
mr president, if you look at the list of eu states which have already ratified it, you will see that five of the six founding states have done so. the only country missing is the netherlands, which has made a special effort to promote this court and its seat. so you wonder what's behind it. of the other nine member states of the european union, only three have already ratified, including austria, which has been criticised by many. i would also like to appeal to the other countries of the european union to start the ratification process as soon as possible. we need this criminal court so that international crimes against humanity, which unfortunately have not decreased but rather increased, can finally have an objective global dimension. we were talking about cambodia earlier. we are talking about the former yugoslavia. the special courts that are being set up are certainly justified. but we must also be aware that it is sometimes defamed by nationalist forces in these countries as a victorious justice. in order to prevent this from happening again, it is extremely important that there should soon be a unified criminal court in the world, so that we no longer have to operate with special courts. the hague-based tribunal for the crimes of the former yugoslavia is very meritorious. he needs our support. but you have seen that president kostunica, who has just recently made solemn speeches in parliament, refused to receive mrs del ponte two days ago because she was not his equal in terms of protocol. this is a scandal! we have to be very careful not to let the european union become a victim of the international community, which is the only one that can do so. this is the first and foremost criminal court. we've worked hard on this, and it's high time he started his work.
commission. – even though the setting-up of the international criminal court does not come within its remit, the commission hopes that the required number of 60 ratifications will soon be reached so that the court can become operational. as of 31 december, the statute was signed by 139 countries and ratified by 27. the commission notes, with satisfaction, that the united states signed the rome statute on 31 december and the yugoslav federation earlier on 19 december. in its relations with third countries the commission will make every effort to recall the necessity to sign and ratify the statute as swiftly as possible. in the meantime, the commission will continue to provide grants to initiatives in support of the international criminal court. so far, approximately eur 4.8 million of grants have been provided to support the activities of ngos or institutions working on information campaigns concerning the international criminal court. the commission will provide further support for these activities this year. we want to promote this and use our cooperation with ngos to keep up the momentum to make this court a reality.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
- doc. b5-0068/2001 by mr nogueira román and others, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on the earthquake in el salvador; - b5-0074/2001 by mr galeote quecedo and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on el salvador; - b5-0079/2001 by mr seguro and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the earthquake in el salvador; - b5-0084-2001 by mr wurtz, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the earthquake in el salvador.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the epp-ed group is shocked and appalled by the news of the severe earthquake in el salvador. we are deeply sorry for the many victims and injured and for the many who have lost their families and their possessions. the epp-ed group supports the resolution of several groups in the european parliament. it's nice to know that the community responded so quickly to this natural disaster by sending experts and money. this is an example of convincing solidarity. i would like to add, on a very topical occasion, that as a positive member of the '68 generation, i was a reserve officer in the bundeswehr in the 1970s, and instead of throwing stones like other young men, i went out with my own hands to search for the dead and injured in an earthquake area in italy, and we were able to save a great many people who had been thrown overboard. it's a great pleasure. the horror of the earthquake in italy in the 1970s is still before my eyes, and i can understand the misery in el salvador. it is great that europe is helping so quickly. i hope that the aid will not be too late and that it will not be channelled through foreign channels into el salvador.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i must say that i am very surprised at how you manage to get into a debate about an earthquake in el salvador as a reserve officer of the bundeswehr and "positive" 68ers and talk about stone-throwing members of the 68er movement. i don't know what one has to do with the other, except perhaps that mr knolle has to tell us a bit of his biography, but that might be quite interesting. the events in el salvador, as described by my colleagues, are dramatic, and we have heard several speakers make a correct point. if the question is asked here, how efficient and fast is our aid, then in this natural disaster it seems to be coming in really fast, first aid, i mean. but what is driving us, and what has shaped the debate on the resolution and its formulation in our group, is the experience that this has not always been the case. we call on the commission to ensure that when the european union helps with get it, with know-how, with equipment, with people on the ground, the aid must not arrive only when people have largely helped themselves, or when the next natural disaster is imminent, because it jeopardises the credibility of the european union both internally and in relations with its partners, if money is made available, aid is promised, but because of bureaucratic obstacles the aid either does not arrive at all or arrives too late. so on the one hand, it is a matter of direct aid to the poorest of the poor, who need our solidarity, but on the other hand, it is also a matter of remembering that our aid is useless if it gets caught in bureaucratic red tape. we are therefore pleased that this resolution was drafted in an intergroup way. we hope, commissioner nielson, that the commission will work with the same speed as parliament on this resolution. i do not want mr knolle to be a stone-throwing foreign minister.
commission. – mr president, let me reply to mr seguro, who talked about the situation in honduras. i want to make it clear that as part of our decision last year, supported by this house, to increase our stake in the whole hipc initiative – eur 1bn, we decided to spend it globally, not just on the acp countries. the reason for this was that, as a consequence of hurricane mitch, honduras was included in the hipc initiative. we needed to find a budget line outside european development fund money to make it possible for the european union to be even-handed and support honduras. honduras will receive eur 15m as debt alleviation from us because of this. this is, of course, in addition to what honduras is receiving from the hurricane mitch mid- and long-term rehabilitation and reconstruction follow-up as part of the regional programme. several members have raised concerns about the slow delivery of the more long-term reconstruction part of the hurricane mitch follow-up. i can only agree with the criticism. i myself have characterised this as a real scandal. it took almost one and a half years for the commission services to find the six to seven people to send to managua to form the unit to run the implementation of the regional reconstruction programme of eur 250m. this is pathetic. it is not just bureaucracy, it is a totally dysfunctional set-up of different parties who do not talk to each other. this is exactly why i am still in the market for more tnt to blow up those kind of structures which are blocking good performance in the commission. the situation today for the implementation of this programme is that these people have now been working in managua since early autumn. of the eur 250m, we have specifically earmarked and started the execution in a number of the states covered by the reconstruction programme of more than eur 80m. so eur 80m out of eur 250 are now set to work. things are finally starting to happen on the ground. i still want to make the very clear distinction – which i urge everyone who has spoken in this debate to note – between the immediate humanitarian short-term response to disaster and the long-term reconstruction work. they are two totally distinct types of activity and this has to be borne in mind. nothing has moved slowly in the hurricane mitch follow-up, except, as i mentioned here, finding seven people to send to managua. but this is bad enough. let me now turn more specifically to the terrible situation in el salvador. of course, the commission fully shares the consternation and solidarity expressed in parliament's resolution on the terrible earthquake which struck several countries of central america, and in particular el salvador. the commission – president prodi, mr patten and myself – immediately expressed its condolences to the families of the victims and the authorities and announced a quick and efficient community response to this catastrophe. as in the past, when it assisted el salvador after the 1986 earthquake through the construction of a new hospital and provided very substantial humanitarian and reconstruction aid to the countries stuck by hurricane mitch, the commission stands ready to help central america and el salvador to face the present dramatic challenges. as soon as the earthquake occurred the commission humanitarian aid office, echo, directed a field expert stationed in honduras to go directly to the scene and he was there by sunday. echo also arranged this monday for a mission to be sent to make an initial assessment of the needs as regards cooperation with other donors and the local authorities. it left yesterday. on monday i decided that the first response in terms of money should be eur 2 m. this would cover the things that we knew would be necessary in any case. without any type of coordination or further studying, it was clear that drinking water, sanitation, shelter, food aid and medical supplies would be needed. we also were immediately clear as to the organisations we should ask to take care of this on behalf of the commission, namely a couple of european ngos and the red cross family. we will follow up these initial decisions with further commitments, depending on the feedback we get on what we are going to do compared to other donors and so on. let me add here that this terrible catastrophe once again proves that poverty as such is dangerous. most people think that earthquakes and these types of catastrophe are much more damaging in our sophisticated societies with all the elaborate infrastructure we have, yet in el salvador the immediate consequence has been that more than 50% of water provision to the whole nation is cut off because of damage to pipes, electricity etc. so the secondary impact is enormous, often because the systems are vulnerable, not functioning very well. for instance the flooding in mozambique caused much greater damage to dams, road, bridges and so on than it would have done if the country had had normal, well-maintained, strong and more expensive infrastructure. so poverty is dangerous, and this has to be kept in mind. for this reason, we are giving more emphasis to disaster preparedness activities as part of our humanitarian assistance. we are also considering as favourably as possible the requests for a re-orientation of resources available in commission-supported development projects in the zones and sectors affected, including those foreseen in the framework of the post-mitch reconstruction programme. my view here is that we need additional resources for this. it is not acceptable to divert money from the post-mitch reconstruction programme which has had enough problems already due to our bureaucratic difficulties, but it is an asset that we have a unit in place in the region which consists of people who are specifically engaged in these kind of reconstruction activities. of course, this is an asset and we will definitely come back to the more long-term problems for el salvador when we get beyond the immediate humanitarian response. so i thank you for the very strong support here. we will come back on how to do these things.
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m. i would also now like to remind those of my colleagues who are in their offices that they must be here at 5.30 p.m. so that we can proceed to the vote as soon as possible, and not at 6.30 p.m. as stated on the agenda. the president has already announced this afternoon that the votes will take place at 6 p.m. but it could be at 5.50 p.m. or even earlier depending on the decision on mr deprez's request. i would therefore ask you, in agreement with the conference of presidents, to ask your colleagues to be present in the chamber for the vote at 5.30 p.m. and thus help ensure that we are all there at 5.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 5.15 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was still confused by mr knolle, but i will not tell you what he was about to say. those of you who were in the room just now know what i mean. mr deprez, if i remember correctly, wanted to postpone his report. now i don't know why i get the first word. the rapporteur has not yet explained why he wants this postponement. so it would be fair if you gave him the floor first. i shall then state my opinion and that of my group.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i support in principle the request made by mr deprez. i support it on behalf of our group because we believe that such an important subject - mr deprez has said this - deserves the attention of the whole house. and he has made it very clear that there is a significant gap between the speakers who have spoken in committee, those who wanted to speak this morning and those who are still here. what was right for the ferri report this morning must be wrong for the deprez report this afternoon. but i would also like to say something, of course, to limit the debate: we cannot ignore the fact that this is a matter of the agenda and the calendar. we shall discuss this problem every thursday afternoon, unless we can think of something better and make thursday and friday working days here. (applause from the centre) i think that this can be done by creating a coherent and intrinsically logical system of working until friday afternoon. in this particular case, mr deprez is entitled to more presence than is the case now!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i fully agree with the last point made by mr schulz, but let me be clear: there is a deliberate agitation to destroy thursday after friday. on the other hand, there are unplanned reactions. on monday mr seppänen said that his report was too important to be dealt with on thursday evening. the house has nevertheless democratically decided, after mr seppänen's speech, that we will deal with his report on thursday evening. the president-in-office then announced at noon on wednesday that, in consultation with the political groups, mr seppänen's report would be tabled on thursday morning. this morning an agenda was tabled which indicated that the ferri and deprez reports would be dealt with this evening. this morning, no one protested. this afternoon mr ferri noticed that he was leaving and asked for his report to be postponed. it was granted and mr deprez sat by and did not protest. this afternoon mr deprez noticed that his speakers were missing and now he wants his report to be postponed to this evening. it's almost like a puppet show, i'll tell you that much. i want to make it very clear that we are not going to postpone this. mr schulz, mrs boumediene-thiery and i are members of this committee. we can have a say in this matter and we should have the debate. i would like to see it in a more orderly fashion in the future.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mr deprez on his brilliant report, which deserves our full support. the report has been worked on very intensively in our committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr deprez, for his report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, mr deprez, for his report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. but regardless, i think that the speakers who are now replacing the speakers who were scheduled to speak are quite capable of contributing to this subject. i would like to make it quite clear that the activities of mr deprez, both in terms of the legal basis and in terms of criticism of the council and commission's actions, deserve our full support. the council and the commission are acting as haphazardly as we have been acting almost haphazardly on the agenda and have been acting this week on this important question. we are faced with a completely confused policy on asylum and immigration, where we are presented with one initiative after another, sometimes by the council, sometimes by the commission, sometimes by individual member states, but there is no strategic approach. but that is precisely what is wrong with this proposal, which is quite reasonable in practice. there is no strategic approach that clearly distinguishes between asylum and immigration, that adequately regulates both, that addresses the important issue of burden sharing, and from all of this, problems arise. these problems are then settled by bureaucratic back door harassment, but they are not really settled, but there are pseudo-regulations. if people who are longterm residents in the european union are actually getting some relief from this initiative, i welcome it. but you can't treat cancer with aspirin. the way we have dealt with this important field in recent years and unfortunately still do cannot continue. i therefore believe that mr deprez's criticism is more than justified. practical relief in the interests of the people, yes! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper way. the free movement of third country nationals within the european union is also a matter of course. but we call on the council and the commission to move from the patchwork to a strategic policy in this field and to present a concept from a single source in which we can then proceed step by step.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to express my satisfaction. when we discussed this afternoon and i should have started my speech with the phrase 'mr president, the chamber is empty' because there were five members present, mr posselt said that if there was no speaker from his group but himself, he would take over all the speaking time of the ppe group. that would have meant that we would have had to listen to mr posselt for 15 minutes. imagine that for a moment. (cheers and applause) the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr posselt, the burden-sharing you mentioned, one of your favourite subjects, has nothing to do with what we are discussing today, although i must admit that we have to talk about burden-sharing. first of all, i should like to say to the council that we are dealing with an initiative by the french government, and we have seen in the committee on the internal affairs that individual member states have taken initiatives, and then we have seen that the member states have occasionally made mistakes in the legal basis. i would like to take up mr posselt's phrase. the council in particular lacks a strategic approach. the council would therefore be better advised to adopt commissioner vitorino's strategic approach, which is in place, rather than blocking most of his ideas. i say this in principle to the member states and to the council itself. secondly, why is there no strategic concept? the strategic concept is lacking for a simple reason. the policy of the european union, as far as it is pursued by the governments of the member states in the field of freedom of movement, is not in all member states, but for the most part in the member states, characterized by a defensive attitude, because in principle most governments in the european union are concerned with restricting freedom of movement and not with guaranteeing it, which is, incidentally, defined as one of the four fundamental freedoms in the treaty on the european communities. we are dealing with a flawed strategic concept, because we are talking about the free movement of services, capital and goods, and they can move freely in europe from cattle to uranium. only the people who are subject to restrictions in the european union. they are subject to these restrictions by a defense mechanism. when mr posselt talks about freedom of movement, he is usually referring to people from the southern hemisphere or asylum seekers. i would like to speak about an american professor who takes up a chair at a german university, who is granted a residence permit for the federal republic of germany and who, if he wants to give a guest lecture in paris at the sorbonne, must apply for a visa, which he may have to wait for, because the french or german authorities are not making progress because of the many administrative regulations in the member states, which are very heterogeneous due to the lack of a strategic concept. i am talking about an engineer who is sent to the eu by a company from a third country which has offices in various places. it is subject to the same bureaucratic obstacle which, by the way, should not exist in a free market, in a free economy. i therefore call on you, in the context of the excellent report by mr deprez, not only to always use freedom of movement and its regulations as a defense mechanism against those whom we do not want here, but to finally understand that freedom of movement is firstly a human right and secondly economic rationality in the european union! (applause from the centre)
commission. - i thank you, mrs mccarthy, for your appreciation and i confirm the commission's and my own attitude in particular to taking part not only here but in front of national parliaments and in the regions and with the regions, in the most decentralised way possible, in a great debate, and my whole management team will commit itself to presenting the results of the evaluation of this photograph and to open the debate over the next two years in an extremely transparent and open manner. the current effort is about 30 billion a year. once again, i told mr hatzidakis what i thought about the floor below which it would be difficult to go, otherwise we would lose credibility in this policy. i also believe, as you do, mrs mccarthy, that this european policy must serve as a lever for other efforts and other synergies. that is why i attach importance to partnership, to the modernisation of private funds, to the involvement of the european investment bank, which is our partner. i also understand your concern about greater consistency with competition policy, for which mr monti is responsible. we must find a way of combining respect for the treaty, particularly in the field of competition rules, with regional policy. i simply say to you, mrs mccarthy, that i am convinced that we cannot achieve solidarity and cohesion in europe by relying simply on the laws of the market, on supply and demand or on a simple policy of fiscal transfers. i do not believe that liberalism alone will make the poorest regions cease to be the poorest and reduce the gap with the richest regions. that is why i will fight for the continuation of european public intervention.
the commission has already done so. i should like to thank you on behalf of my group for the excellent report. it will certainly lead to a sound but also controversial debate, and that is why i want to start this debate with a twofold question: the current system actually applies until 2006. if we are negotiating with the candidate countries with the objective of their joining in 2004/05, how can we make it clear to them that even if they join under the present conditions, they cannot expect the system to continue, that they must adapt to a changed cohesion policy, whatever the circumstances may be when they join now? secondly, perhaps you can alleviate a little the fears that exist in some regions by showing us how the regions which - no matter what ceilings we set - may be less supported after 2007, how these regions do not lose support, solidarity, just like that. how can they be given the opportunity - as they have already been in the process of phasing out - to gradually build up their fortunes without falling out of the system immediately? perhaps your answer will allay some of your fears.
the commission has already done so. they said that the focus of cohesion in the future would be on the east and that such a cohesion policy would only be possible if there were sufficient funds for it. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. how can we build on the commission's commitment to use both time and money to prepare cohesion proactively? the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. would it not be sensible to use them for the purpose of cohesion in the east even before accession? what is your position on this?
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, mr high representative for the cfsp, with your speech a few minutes ago, it seems to me that you deserve another title: high representative of hope. i hope you're right! unfortunately, i do not share his optimism, even cautious, but i admit that his words have served as a consolation to my worries.
- thank you very much, mr sakellariou. to the surprise of this house, you surf between languages so elegantly that it can only cause such murmurs!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i spent the last week with a delegation from the european parliament in the hot spots of the west bank and gaza, in jerusalem, bethlehem, hebron, ramallah, gaza and refugee camps. i'm still shocked and appalled. i thought i was well prepared to go there, having been informed by radio, television, the press and commission documents, as well as by personal interviews. the reality was different. the living conditions were appalling and frightening. the situation was explosive to an extent i could not have imagined. the term "state of war" is perhaps the most apt description of the situation. the situation of the people in the occupied territories, especially in the refugee camps, some of which have existed for over 30 years, can be described as inhuman. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in my country, we are very careful about criticising israel. the presentation of terrorism and executions by the palestinians and the alleged sending of palestinian children to fight is easier. but remember this: the fact that we have been living in a refugee camp for more than 35 years with tin huts, bags in front of windows and doors, and no infrastructure, gives us little confidence in negotiations, especially when they have been going on for seven years without success and even un resolutions are not being recognized. by the way, gatherings of people are often enough separated by israeli soldiers. we felt it in our own flesh, for our group was being shot at. luckily, no one was hurt. we have found an explosive atmosphere, created by fanatical, uncompromising, principled individuals who seem to be on both sides, although apparently intensified on the side of fundamentalist settlers, often newly arrived in the country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. how many times have we condemned the murders and the war in colombia in this house? how many times have we passed resolutions? that is why i am very pleased to hear the council and commission speak today in this form and with this clarity. but if you think that this plan colombia - negotiated by the united states, mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, with mr pastrana - is a step towards peace, you should think again, because this plan colombia will intensify the war, it will carry the conflicts of war to neighbouring regions, to other states. i do not recall the president of brazil, cardoso, approving this plan or welcoming it with enthusiasm. the role of the european union must be to continue to support and promote the peace process, but also to get the colombian government to establish the rule of law, because there is none! there is no real separation of powers, there is corruption, that is all there is, we know that, and it is not the task of the european union - and for that i am very grateful to you - to pour oil on the fire here, but to play a positive and committed role in this peace process. that is our job too!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, dear colleagues from the other side of the world! after careful but fair negotiations between the french presidency of the council and representatives of the european parliament, we succeeded, in the evening of 22 november, in making significant progress in the conciliation procedure on the three basic directives on railway liberalization, namely the further development of the railways, railway authorizations, and the allocation of track capacity, namely progress towards further opening up the railway sector. i shall summarize them in three points, and i welcome you, madam vice-president! we have made three points to the council. firstly, it was decided to open all national rail networks for crossborder freight traffic once and for all, starting in 2008 at the latest. we have thus achieved that from that moment on all member states must open not only the lines of the so-called new trans-european rail freight network, but their entire network to railway companies from the other eu countries. secondly, the derogation which would have allowed member states - originally planned by austria - to escape the strict european requirements for the respective national regulatory authority has been removed. i think that this has led to the fact that in all the member states it is not the national railway companies or their subsidiaries that have to decide on the licensing of railway undertakings, the allocation of tracks and the charging of tolls, but actually independent bodies. so these are the two essential components: opening up all networks to cross-border traffic and setting up an independent regulatory authority in all member states to ensure fair competition. if i may say something about my colleague's report, the third essential thing that i think has been achieved is that we have incorporated the long-term objective of making users bear the costs of using rail infrastructure by means of a new provision. we have thus succeeded in raising road tolls in the long term to cover the costs, so that the construction, maintenance and also the expansion of the networks are borne by the users and not by the taxpayers in the long term. i think that in the long term we still need to separate the grid from the operation. but in any case, we need the network to be maintained by the users. that is why we need the long-term objective of covering costs through fees. i believe that these three essential steps will break up the national railway structures and open up new opportunities for competition among railway companies. the european parliament has fought for this, in cooperation with the commission. the commission was not so enthusiastic at first, but in the end it fought with us to achieve this liberalization, and i can therefore express my special thanks to the vice-president for her cooperation in the conciliation procedure. i believe that the european parliament, together with the council and the commission, has thus set the framework conditions for an attractive railway sector with a greater offer of customer-oriented crossborder freight services in the future. we want to modernise the railway sector by means of competition so that ultimately more goods are moved from the road to the railway, because for environmental reasons it is extremely important to move goods down the road and up the railway over long distances. let me make a comment in the meantime: the conciliation procedure has once again demonstrated the importance of the codecision procedure, which has been in force in the transport sector since the treaty of amsterdam. it is only because of the codecision procedure that we have been able to break the council's position. i would like to remind you that the french president-in-office of the council thought that after the first reading of the council's common position, all negotiations would be over and we would have to accept it. no, we have managed to move forward through a fair mediation process and achieve the internal market at least for crossborder freight traffic by 2008 at the latest. allow me a quick look. it is not enough to simply make laws, directives and regulations, nor is it enough to simply implement them into national law. my group calls on the existing railway companies - and i see one of them in the gallery, for which i am grateful - to make arrangements now so that they can make use of the new provisions when the european law we are now adopting has to be implemented in 2003. the german federal railways, for example, together with the dutch federal railways or other railways, should really take advantage of the opportunity to carry out cross-border freight transport. i think that the traditional railways are now really called upon to enforce the market opening that we have created. however, if the traditional railways do not take advantage of the new opportunities offered by liberalisation, then some industrial companies will consider doing business with small railway companies themselves and using european law. you'll have the right to do so. in germany there are 180 licensed railway companies, and they are licensed wherever they want to operate, even if they have only been operating regionally. so i think we should call on all the parties involved, the railway companies and the economy, to take the necessary measures now, to use competition to move more goods from the road to the railway!
the commission has already done so. the positive aspect of this compromise is that obstacles to cross-border freight transport will be removed in the foreseeable future, thereby increasing the chance of moving goods from road to rail. the aim must be to achieve real equality of opportunity in competition by harmonizing and taking account of comparable cost components. competition is then defined differently as a competition for the lowest cost and highest profit, but as a pursuit of sustainability, social competence, user-friendliness, quality and service. why should a private provider be better able to do this a priori than a publicly owned one? we have to answer what we mean by universal service and whether it can be better or worse provided by public operators than by private ones. i believe that equal access for all cannot be shown to be profitable in every case. private companies must make profits on pain of their own demise. the public sector can also incur losses in socially necessary sub-sectors because of its redistributive potential. it is not appropriate to privatise profits and socialise losses. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the railways. the experience of individual member states which have already adopted more far-reaching liberalization arrangements speaks very differently. germany i'm sorry, gentlemen of the db is a prime example of how not to do it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. this has nothing to do with competition for services to the citizen!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am in agreement with the vast majority of this house that the outcome of the negotiations on the reports on the railway package is a major step forward in the opening up of the international freight market. the reports by mr swoboda and mr jarzembowski are the right guidelines. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the rail transport services in the community. i would like to thank all those involved. competition has and many other sectors that have already been liberalised have shown positive effects on the sector concerned. the benefits are obvious in freight transport. if european railways can increase their competitiveness in relation to other modes of transport, especially road transport, this will also have a positive impact on the environment and will also help to solve the serious problems in road transport. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it must be designed for the whole community. only then will the railway become a real alternative. it is a great success for parliament that this objective has been achieved, albeit with transitional periods. what applies to goods transport must also apply to passenger transport. the problems arising from the other modes of transport - road, for example - are not only those of lorries, but also, of course, those of passenger transport. the railway can only regain market share if it is a genuine alternative, and that means today that it is international, service-oriented and consumer-oriented. if the track faces this great challenge, it can only win, and all of us with it!
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner and commissioners! i should like to take this opportunity to present to you, at a late hour, the commission proposal for a council regulation on the implementation of projects to promote cooperation and trade relations between the eu and the industrialized countries of north america, the far east and australasia, and my report on the subject. apart from the somewhat misleading packaging of the title, which refers to the industrialized countries and does not, of course, include all the industrialized countries of the world, but only those industrialized countries with which we do not have free trade areas or cooperation or partnership agreements, i would like to express my gratitude to the commission for the proposal for a regulation it has put forward. i think that not only has it done a great job in this area, taking into account all the difficult political debates that have taken place in the council and also the perhaps not always easy cooperation with the european parliament, but it has also done something great by actually bringing together the many different small existing projects and programmes that exist in the areas of the countries mentioned in one budget line and thus also creating a legal basis. i would like to thank the commission and the excellent cooperation it has shown with you. the aim of the commission's present proposal for a regulation is to provide a sound legal and budgetary framework for the measures taken under the various existing bilateral agreements between the eu and the six industrialized countries mentioned. these measures are currently financed from a number of different budget lines. some of them have to be run as pilot projects or preparatory measures, as there is currently no legal basis for the budget lines concerned. the commission has now provided a legal basis in this proposal for a regulation. in drawing up the proposal, the commission took care to ensure that the main responsibility for promoting exports remained with the member states. community action is therefore limited to measures which complement the efforts of the member states and other public bodies of the european union and thus create, as we always say, european added value. the proposal provides for the reporting to the european parliament and the council on a regular basis in future. we have corrected this in some places, and we have also corrected and added that the regulation is due to expire in december 2005. i have also tabled an amendment which i hope the commission and the council will support, namely that the commission should submit a new proposal as early as 2003 in which it would then outline the framework for a new trade policy and philosophy. it would also solve the dilemma we still have at the moment, namely that we have no positive clause on trade policy in our treaty, but only a negative one, by excluding what does not belong. the commission should make this positive provision in future. i think the post-nice process is a great way of doing that, and in that context i would also ask the commission to always bear in mind, as a background, that we are not satisfied with the current wording of article 133 as a parliament. i am not surprised, mr commissioner, but i assume that you are aware of parliament's views on this matter. i would also ask you to include in this new wording your position which you have just expressed with regard to one of the countries, the united states. you have given a very comprehensive overview of our relations with the united states. i would also like to see the reflections that are taking place in the commission at the moment, especially under commissioner lamy, who wants a policy statement in the field of trade policy in the future, that these reflections will also be included in a review in 2003. the projects now being financed concretely under this budget line include cooperation projects, they include company-related training programmes, and they include programmes to promote trade relations. this includes the programmes in the united states already mentioned, and particularly those with japan. in conclusion, i would like to thank you once again for all the experimental projects you have tried in relation to the various countries. it would be desirable for you to draw conclusions from this and summarise what should be transferred to programmes with other countries, what you think may have been less successful, what you think has no chance of surviving the period after 2005. if you do this review, i think we have an excellent basis on which to base a real trade policy and philosophy. in the context of globalisation, in the context of the next world trade round, i believe you have created an excellent basis. thank you again for this!
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. as vice-president of the japanese delegation, i would like to take the floor and welcome the new proposal for a regulation which finally creates a fundamental legal basis for projects to promote cooperation and trade relations, although this is initially scheduled for 2005. first of all, i share the praise of my colleague, mr mann, to the commissioner for the good cooperation, but i particularly join the praise of the group of members present here for your work, mrs mann, because it was not an easy job, and i know that it is a triangular affair between the commission, the member states and parliament. we must try to find a reasonable basis, because we can only move forward in this matter if we work together. i believe that this new proposal for a regulation provides a solid basis for a political and economic debate with the industrialized countries. that is why i do not want to limit it to trade. i think it is important that we should be more closely involved with the industrialized countries of north america, the far east and australasia and that we should have more exchanges. this is necessary to re-emphasise the importance of asia in the minds of members of parliament. i think there are still big differences here. there are very good programmes on the japanese experience. i believe that the executive training programme for japan is exemplary and could be adopted as it has now begun in korea. the gateway to japan project is also an excellent trade promotion project. other industrialized countries could do the same. on the contrary, i think we should consider whether we should not take as an example the relations between the legislative bodies, for example the american congress, and the asian region, because our contacts from the european parliament to asia are not yet deep enough. i think that we should take up the example here of establishing a closer dialogue between the two houses of the japanese parliament and the european parliament, and just as this is done in america on the basis of the legal basis, we should also take advantage of the same opportunities with regard to asia. in conclusion, let me make a small comment: even if we have made this division, partly for reasons of experience, partly because of the different legal bases, we should still see that we work very differently. i will take my area of work, which i do a lot of, asia. i believe that we should be much more politically and parliamentarily supportive of the asem process. we should definitely hold a parliamentary conference before the next asem meeting. so whatever the legal relationship, europe and asia need to grow closer together.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in general, the commission's proposal for the regulation on the voluntary labelling programme is to be welcomed and mrs mcnally has presented a very good report on this. i believe that energy labelling is an important market-economy tool for promoting energy-efficient office equipment. the energy star label is intended to promote energy-saving standby devices. the potential for saving energy in these appliances cannot be underestimated and with the label we are giving a real impetus to the european union to use energy more efficiently. saving energy also means reducing co2 emissions, as agreed in the climate agreement. i also consider it a great advantage that this system is now being applied practically worldwide to the field of office equipment. the european union has a common labelling programme not only with the usa but also indirectly with japan and a number of other countries. this is how we respond to the global market. this helps to remove barriers to trade. the telecommunications and computer sectors appear to be the most important. in the context of the establishment of an energy star office of the european union, i believe it is urgent that national experts in energy policy should be involved in addition to interested actors, so that national interests can be clearly represented. the energy star bureau is required to produce an annual report on the market penetration of products bearing the energy star logo. i think that annual rates are appropriate in view of the technological development of computer and telecommunications equipment. this is the only way to ensure that the label is awarded only to appliances with significantly higher energy efficiency than the market average. in this context, i would ask you to support my opinion, which is attached to this report and which was adopted in its entirety by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to join in the thanks to the rapporteur, mrs mcnally, but also to the rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, mrs emilia müller. energy saving and the reduction of greenhouse gases such as co2 are important objectives of the european union. these goals are not always achievable without effort and loss of comfort, but sometimes they are quite simple. sometimes we have to use only the technical means that are available today, and sometimes the political will to do so vigorously is lacking. in my country, germany, 11% of household electricity consumption is due to standby losses. if you add up the private and public sectors, it's 20 terawatt hours a year, which is the equivalent of two large power plants, which we use for nothing! so the device's power is not demanded, and yet it consumes electricity. the simplest thing, of course, as mrs mcnally has already mentioned, is to turn off the machine when you do not need it. this is a solution in many areas; for example, in the case of television, it should simply be more publicly advertised. but in some areas the machines cannot be switched off at all, and in the computer sector in particular it is necessary that they fall asleep quickly and wake up quickly, as mrs mcnally says, because you need the computer to be very fast and you do not want to start it up slowly. there are technical problems, but you can solve those problems without using energy. there are new innovative approaches to reduce idle losses to almost zero, you just have to put them in. technically, none of this is a problem anymore. so it's good that we're here discussing the energy star and rewarding devices that take advantage of these new technological possibilities and are very efficient. that is correct, and that is why the epp group supports the commission's proposal and mrs mcnally's report. but i think that's not enough. when i took over as the epp's shadow rapporteur, i asked experts from the various organisations, ngos, ministries, the commission, but i also asked people who deal with the subject on a daily basis, such as a computer dealer friend. i asked him, "what do you think of the energy star?" he said, "that's a good thing. at first, there were technical problems, the computers went to sleep, but they didn't wake up fast enough. now we've solved all the technical problems, but nobody cares whether a computer has an energy star or not. it's not a selling point! we should therefore consider whether we are not simply applying the principle we are proposing here, namely to give a positive label to very efficient devices, or whether we are not also removing very bad devices which are very inefficient from the market, simply not allowing them after a transitional period. i think we must also think about this - it is also in mrs mcnally's report - and then we will have a comprehensive approach to energy efficiency in this area. i therefore ask you to accept these amendments as well.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mrs mcnally said earlier that her report is not a very sexy subject. i think that as the hour goes on, the reports become less and less sexy, without wanting to get too close to mr ferri, who will be in the chair later. the present draft directive amends and supplements a total of 10 directives, some of which date back to 1977. the president has given me time to speak in so far as he has already enumerated the professions mentioned. why have we been so careful in this report, even going into a time-consuming and laborious conciliation procedure, even though some people might say that the members here pretend to be tearing up the world, but in fact it is all just details? why did we insist on this conciliation procedure by a large and overwhelming majority? there are three main reasons for this. firstly, apart from architects and veterinarians, with a few exceptions, these are health professions in the broadest sense. in normal life, when damage is done, you can claim compensation, but a person is not a golf, a skoda or a citroën that you can just carry to the screwdriver or even to the hobby screwdriver that messes around. in these cases, there is a compensation to make up for the damage. in the field of health, damage cannot usually be repaired. that's why there's pain money. i don't know anyone in my legal practice who wouldn't have gladly given back the money if it would have prevented the damage to their health. i'm allowed to take a little ride. i think this whole procedure is also a good example of how the council should be public in future, because some of the things that were put forward would have been of great interest to the citizens of greece to ireland and of italy to finland, and they would have thought, what are my governments doing, we want more protection! the interest in these things is therefore very great. secondly, and this brings me to the second point: we have the single market. we have an interest in the fact that wherever a diploma has been acquired, it can be applied in the context of the free movement of people and services. the member state on the other hand and the citizen on the other hand have an interest in asking the person who is going to tie his shoelaces and move to another member state immediately after the examination, what was the training like? in the other case, if someone says ten or even thirty years after his exams that he wants to go to another member state, the citizens and the host member states have an interest in what that person has been doing in the last few years since his exams. has he evolved? is he still on the ball? that brings me to the third motivation. parliament has a primary interest in our producing legible texts. i've already hinted that i'm a lawyer. as i got into this story, i have to say, i went from one disaster to another. what we're producing here is basically data trash for the interested public. we must produce consolidated texts more quickly in the future. the only regret i had when i entered the conciliation procedure was that i did not ask for a majority vote, because that would have shown that we had well over 400 colleagues who had agreed to it. i should also like to thank mrs gebhardt, with whom i worked closely, with whom we shared this broad majority and with whom we had the confidence, although we were three colleagues from the epp in the conciliation delegation, because that is what the rules of the house have shown. i do not want to bore you with details transposition deadlines, requirement for diplomas obtained in third countries, the change of the word similar to equivalent and the completion of the italian pharmacy training. so, just three basic things. firstly, the commission has stated that it intends to produce consolidated texts in future. i can only encourage each rapporteur to ask for this to be done quickly for his own fields. second, lifelong learning is a key element of the programme. we must not just talk about it all the time, we must demand it. i think we have reached a good compromise. we have not produced legislation for reasons of subsidiarity, but we have been able to win the recitals. finally, the training of specialists in general medicine has been increased to three years. the commission has already taken steps to increase the duration of initial training from two and a half to three years, while we have allowed the member states, belgium and finland, to accept this particular type of training with a longer period of basic training. that is why i can tell you that we have achieved a good result in mediation and i would ask you to agree. i would like to say to you in one sentence that we very much regret that the commission has not been on our side from the outset on the points we have requested and on which the council has finally acted.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the late working class! if you want to do good work in politics, you must have the will and the patience to drill into thick boards. mr wieland has both to a considerable extent. that is why it was almost a pleasure to work with him as rapporteur and the other colleagues on the result of the conciliation which is before us. we can be a little proud of that. for the first time, something has been incorporated into european legislation that is usually only a matter of preaching. i mean the need for lifelong learning. in the field of medicine, we will not only have rules and criteria for the recognition of diplomas, examination certificates and other qualifications. for the first time, we are saying that we are not done with the successful completion of a professional qualification, but that we must continue afterwards, especially in the interests of the patients, but also in the interests of the doctors and nurses. lifelong learning is particularly important in the face of the very rapid technological and scientific progress in the field of medicine. but we cannot be satisfied with the fact that it is now in this directive on recognition. we should rather help with our legislation to make this initial success and thus lifelong learning a pillar of the working life of all people in europe. i would like to make a second point which has always interested me in the context of the recognition of professional qualifications. i would like to put it in the form of a question which this directive has not yet answered: why do we have such difficulty in recognising qualifications acquired outside the european union? this question is pressing on me as i look at how we are globalizing markets and how we are allowing capital to wander. goods and money can be brought in by our citizens from every corner of the world. but the purely personal assets in the form of professional knowledge and skills are not freely transferable. something's not right. we have to change that quickly! i therefore ask the commission to delete two arguments in the preparation of future recognition directives. firstly, it affects only a small number of eu citizens. secondly, the treaty provides only a limited legal basis. you'll see, it's much better afterwards.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. on behalf of my group, i support the analysis, conclusions and considerations of the rapporteur, but i also share his concern about the problems raised by the multidisciplinary group. i thank mr ferri for his work. the eu has 15 different criminal codes, a multitude of police forces, some of which are in competition with each other, and 15 legal systems, all of which are deeply shaped by mentality, tradition and culture. until the desirable unification of criminal justice systems in the eu, judicial cooperation will operate through a complicated and antiquated system of legal aid, which is a catchword for almost all prosecutors and judges. but european cooperation is more urgently needed than ever. for example, in germany in 1998, 77% of all organised crime cases had an international link. there is a great need for action by the council. in luxembourg, for example, the minister of justice must give a personal authorization for banking matters. the netherlands applies its own urgency levels instead of assuming the urgency of the requesting state. the five countries do not have sufficient staff, technical and financial resources to provide legal aid. the dutch kris programme, the irish system and denmark's experience with the nordic countries are also worth mentioning. where there are contact points within the judicial network, there are good experiences and results, but this network does not in any way influence formal legal aid searches. the creation of contact points alone does not guarantee a qualitative leap in european cooperation. the willingness to exchange information on a regular basis was also very poor at some contact points. if the council is serious about successfully combating crossborder crime which simply ignores democracy and the rules of the legal economy, then the recommendations of the rapporteur and the committee must be put into practice. i do not want to go into detail here, but what mr ferri has just said is that it is also necessary to involve the applicant countries fully and at an early stage in the strategy to combat organised crime. the judicial network needs to be further developed, for example with websites on the different legal systems, with videoconferencing technology, and finally and finally eurojust should become a useful complement to europol and olaf.
commission. – i am pleased to have the opportunity to update parliament on the most recent events in relation to bse. many of you were present when i spoke to the agriculture committee last week. nonetheless, let me very briefly summarise the main events of recent weeks. important new measures came into effect on 1 january. these included the ban on meat and bone meal and the testing of all animals over 30 months destined for the food chain. the commission wrote to ministers for agriculture on 4 january and asked for replies to an extensive questionnaire on the implementation of bse-related measures. a working document summarising the responses was circulated to the agriculture council on monday last. the opinion of the scientific steering committee on a number of bse-related questions from the commission was published on 17 january. this set the agenda for the agriculture council on monday. following the usual, very lengthy discussions, member states agreed on the following main orientations. a ban on mechanically recovered meat. the heat treatment of ruminant fats for inclusion in animal feed and the removal of the vertebral column, the backbone, from cattle. all three of these orientations follow directly from the previous discussions in the council on the measures necessary to restore consumer confidence. they are also based on the opinion of the scientific committee. i intend to present proposals within the next several days on all these issues to the standing veterinary committee. they will, of course, result in further controls and potentially very significant costs. however member states are prepared to accept virtually any measure to ensure that beef is now safe. it is surely a matter of very great regret that this determination to tackle bse has taken so long to emerge. only seven months ago, the commission failed to obtain a qualified majority to ban brain and spinal cord from food for human consumption and from animal feed. equally, not all member states implemented a ban on the feeding of meat and bone meal to ruminants in a satisfactory manner. i would like now to turn to the proposals which the commission will put to the standing veterinary committee. firstly, the one relating to mechanically recovered meat. the commission will shortly consider a proposal to ban the use of mechanically recovered meat from all bones of ruminants of all ages. there is a case that material from bones other than the skull and vertebral column or from bones of young animals is safe. however, this involves important control problems and in the circumstances it is believed a total ban is necessary. i might add that the use of mechanically recovered meat is increasingly repugnant to consumers. the processed meat industry has also called for this ban. the proposed measure should therefore be very welcome to both industry and consumers. on the question of rendered fat, the commission will propose that ruminant fats to be included in ruminant feed should be pressure cooked in addition to the current requirement that they be ultrafiltrated. the commission will equally act on the opinion that such ruminant fats should only be sourced from discrete adipose tissues when fed as milk replacers to calves. we also need to reflect however if these changes can be properly enforced. for example, might there be control problems in distinguishing between different fats. if so, is there a need for a need for an outright ban on the use of ruminant fats in ruminant feed? if so, how do we ensure that the replacement fats are safe? one final point on the issue of ruminant fats: it is surely incredible to the public that there should be higher standards relating to the use of ruminant fats in animal feed than applies to their use in food for human consumption. however that is the current situation and i intend to put this right. on the vertebral column, the commission intention is to require the removal of the vertebral column where there are doubts over the effectiveness of the ban on meat and bone meal or whenever it cannot be demonstrated that animals are highly unlikely to be incubating bse. this is in keeping with the opinion of the scientific steering committee. again, however there are important issues which need to be addressed. where should the vertebral column be removed. if it is done at the abattoir, the most easily controlled location, there are implications for the storage and transport of beef carcasses. there are also risks of microbiological handling due to the increased handling involved. if instead removal is required at the butcher or retail outlet, there will be control problems in the recovery and the destruction of the bones. similarly we need to be aware of the impact on consumers. a strict implementation of the scientific committee recommendations would require removal of vertebral column in animals aged over twelve months, as is currently the case in france. this will entail a ban on certain cuts of meat which are very popular – t-bone steaks and bistecca fiorentina for example. finally, which member states should be exempt from the requirement? should for example member states like austria, sweden and finland which continue to be bse-free be exempt? these are all issues which the commission is urgently considering and will address in its proposal. i hope that these observations help to highlight the very complex issues which arise for what might appear at first sight to be a relatively simple measure. i am aware that the issue of controls is a concern. in this respect, the replies of ministers to my letter of 4 january is reassuring. all member states now insist that they are giving top priority to the secure implementation of bse-related measures. the food and veterinary office will continue its programme of inspections in this regard. finally, as a further incentive to improve compliance, i am considering a proposal in the very near future to require member states to present monthly reports on their implementation of bse control measures. the uk and portugal are already required to provide such a report under the restriction measures on their exports of beef. i believe it has been invaluable in ensuring that controls are actively implemented. it should therefore, i believe, be replicated at community level. (applause)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to express my appreciation to you, commissioner byrne, for your serious efforts to ensure that precautionary consumer protection is firmly established in the european union. it is true that some of the most far-reaching decisions are necessary because the mistakes of the past are still catching up with us. i want to make it very clear here: bse is largely due to government failure, to gross negligence in the united kingdom, to multiple negligence in the commission up to 1996 - i say this explicitly, i do not know of anyone who has done everything right in the fight against bse. the characteristic is a high degree of government failure, errors were caught too late, decisions were made too late, and when decisions were made or prohibited, they were not sufficiently controlled. it haunts us to this day. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to make it clear that parliament called in november for testing of all animals over 18 months of age and, commissioner, i see a danger. if today the decision on the withdrawal programme is to test or remove in the interests of consumer protection, and some member states test all animals, others test or remove, then by the end of the year we will have a distortion of the statistics. it can't be! (applause from the centre) so it would be good if you would say something about that. i would also like to appeal to you to resolve the problem of third countries as quickly as possible, because we have also had huge potential there in recent years through the introduction of infectious materials. the question of uniform consumer protection is also raised. then we just have to consider the financial components. we are in danger of destroying hundreds of thousands of jobs in europe, and therefore the commission should consider whether we cannot, as in france, distribute the financial burden equally and in solidarity among all, by means of a levy, a meat tax or an increase in the value added tax on agricultural products, so that the problem of waste disposal can be solved in a reasonable way. we must do everything possible, including in connection with the financial programmes in the agricultural budget, to make it 20% or 30% easier to market the animals, for example, through sectoral agreements, otherwise we will not be able to control things at all. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are in a situation which we have had for six years now. in fact, mr graefe zu baringdorf should speak right after me, and then those who have been doing nothing but bse for the last six years would be back together. many of the decisions taken by the agriculture ministers - half voluntarily, half involuntarily, let us say - have been requested by the european parliament for more than six years. mr byrne has pointed this out. what about the risk material removal? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr byrne, if i hear myself now saying that it is difficult to think about the question of removing the spine, then it is a drag. what the hell is this? at the moment we have to understand the spine as a risk material, in all member states. it has to be removed, it has to be removed in the slaughterhouse, and it has to be treated as risk material. stop it ! that's it! not a little loophole here, a little loophole there! i have learned in eleven years in this european parliament that progress is a snail. that's the way it is. we've moved at a snail's pace. that's good, as long as we're moving forward. i have nothing against this, but i would like to go a little faster now, because we have a great chance of having trembling meat markets around us in the member states and with them trembling ministers of agriculture, trembling ministers of the economy and everything related to that. unfortunately, it also affects farmers, it affects the meat processing industry and the animal feed industry, which i always mention in one breath, which have not necessarily done anything in the past to improve quality. now, when we look at these collapsing meat markets and see the opportunity that lies in taking action now, we have to ask ourselves, what kind of action do we need? this of course includes what you have just said, mr byrne, namely the extension of the definition of risk material so that we can now finally ban separator meat altogether. well, we could have done that for years, but it has to be banned altogether, and not just a little bit of the skull and spine! we have to get rid of it altogether, we don't need it in a society of abundance like ours, that's quite clear! what else do we need? we need to treat animal fats in the same way. it is not possible for us to make a distinction between animal fats and gelatine, whether they are used in the human food chain, for example, or whether they are used in cosmetics or pharmaceuticals, for example. it can't be. fats must be sterilized by the high-pressure process, period! nothing else may be used. we must minimize risks, absolutely clear! you said something very wonderful, mr byrne. i would like to return to that. how do we deal with exceptions in the member states, in the spine, in the fat and in others? how do we treat member countries which are free of bse? i'm sitting back and i'm thinking, "i know this one". i've heard that before, over the years. which member state is free of bse? and, let me ask you, how do they know that? they look into the heads of cattle, and if they can, please explain to us how it is done! we hope we can do the same. until the member states have carried out a comprehensive test, despite all the negligence we know about these tests, until everything is tested on a comprehensive basis, and i agree with mr böge, including the animals being withdrawn from the market, because only then will we have a complete picture, until we have a comprehensive test, we will not know whether finland, germany, austria or italy are free of bse. until we know, we treat all member countries equally, period! we will then see which member state is the blocker again, and we will make that clear to the public. i would like to see the member states enduring this for the time being. in addition to all the points i cannot now address, i will nevertheless briefly touch on my favourite theme for a long time: we can make the best legislation here in the european union - it is useless unless it is controlled in the member states. i believe that there are too few veterinarians, too few food controllers and too few on-the-spot checks in all the member states. i therefore ask you, mr byrne, to oblige the member states to report to you how many veterinarians there are, how many food controllers there are, when they control what, and what they have done in the past, and i very much welcome your monthly reports and thank you for them! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. bse is still dangerous. the danger is not over. but if the chances of contracting bse are lower today than they were a while ago, then that has to do with our work in parliament. mr byrne, i'll admit it has something to do with your work. the new commission and you personally are working consistently. i would like to make a few criticisms of the decisions. the open side was the milk exchanger, was the fat, contaminated with residues of protein. this was the open flank of the commission, the european level. unfortunately, it closed too late. what has been done now is going in the right direction. but still, fat should be mixed in, even if it's heat treated. mr byrne, one has to ask, where does the meat from the separator go when it is no longer in the food chain? does it then go towards the bone meal, towards the fat, and then do remnants of the brain, when the skulls are sucked out, end up in it? do we have enough sterilization at 133 degrees? we know that these prions are obviously also resistant to this heat treatment. here it would have been better to say, no fat in the milk exchanger from sources other than the milk itself. if you really want fat, you should put the butter you pulled out back in, or perhaps feed the milk to the animals right away. the second problem is the brain. we still have the situation where animals under 12 months are allowed to use the brain. we can use pig brains. you can't keep a piece of evidence in a sausage. so it would be desirable to remove the entire sausage, the entire food chain from the brain of both pigs and cattle. the third aspect is the test. mr böge said earlier that we want to test from 18 months. i correct: the decision of the parliament says that all animals entering the food chain are tested, starting from 18 months. we must ensure that this too is achieved and we must not let up in our pursuit of this objective. mr byrne, we must not allow animals to be slaughtered which are not being tested now because we urgently need this result for a comprehensive assessment of the bse pressure in europe for diagnostic reasons.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank the commission for the information it has given us on the control of bse and i would also like to say to commissioner byrne that i feel he has the situation under control and his proposals are clear and specific. i think we need to do that, because we are dealing with hysteria and panic in many areas, in addition to bse. this initial information is certainly a very extensive work. but i would also like to say to you, commissioner, that i would have liked to have seen the information from the countries you have so nicely listed compared with the results of the inspections by the food and veterinary office. i can tell you quite frankly that i have no confidence in the information provided by the member states and the ministers, given the ignorance and the rudeness with which the council of agriculture ministers has acted in recent months against the proposals, including those of parliament. of course, many measures are open to objection. but we have all seen that the measures now adopted are the result of failures, including failures in recent years, and there can be no compromise. some of my colleagues have already pointed out the tests. the thing is, if we don't test all the animals, we're going to distort the results. i have seen slaughterhouses simply refuse to slaughter animals. what's the plan? they're being tortured without a test. you can't do that! we must intervene here, we must clarify this throughout europe. mrs roth-behrendt said we need more and better controls - yes, we need them! we need laws in europe that are understandable and clear. we have to deal with the hygiene regulations in the next period. i can tell you quite frankly that what i am hearing from the member states at the moment is anything but optimistic. we must not let ourselves be swayed by the old ways. we must stand together and create clear european laws. that is the only way to get this problem under control!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let me make a reference to mr byrne. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it's perfect for the calves. nature has arranged it so that the fat in the mold is also well digestible for them, and there is no risk of infection.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on agriculture and rural development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr olsson has presented a good report on the use of hormones in animal husbandry. food safety must be a priority in all our decisions, because the consumer has a right to safe, secure food. substances with hormonal and thyreostatic action and β-agonists as growth promoters in beef production have a long-term effect and may therefore have an impact on human health. the main groups at risk of hormone deficiency are prepubescent children and pregnant women. in the context of the wto dispute settlement procedure, the scientific committee concluded that 17-?-estradiol has a clear carcinogenic, tumour-causing and genotoxic effect in the risk assessment of the six hormones. if there is even the slightest suspicion that certain substances, such as 17-oestradiol, are harmful to health, we must respond by imposing a definitive ban. a high level of food safety and health protection also obliges us to be cautious with the other hormones in question. the european union is also to be closely monitored for compliance with the ban on hormones. however, european consumers are also extremely sensitive to imported products. the monitoring systems for meat imports from third countries should therefore also be reviewed. only by applying the precautionary principle can we show consumers that we are serious about food safety in europe. we are therefore sending a clear signal from this point and setting the course for the future.
i have to say, madam president, it is understandable that the honourable member, mr barón crespo, should wish to revise a decision of the conference of presidents. that is perfectly permissible and legitimate, and i would do the same for any other question. i hope, however, that he will not get a majority, because this is not a question of a breach of parliamentary procedures, but we want information from the commission. this shall in no way prejudice the normal work of the committee concerned. but we want information from the commission now, at this time. the council of ministers is also still discussing the matter, and why should we not have a thorough discussion on this question, especially since - and i ask all those who are against this request to think about this - we are not taking a decision. we are not going to adopt a resolution, we are going to receive information. moreover, the debate in the conference of presidents has developed. mr wurtz has put forward some ideas - and we are not always in a coalition, mr wurtz's group and our group - but if there are points of contact, why not take them up? we are not excluding anyone, and that is why i ask that this oral question be retained so that we can discuss this properly here.
, chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to point out, as chairman of the committee, that we do indeed have a report to make a careful analysis of the stability and convergence programmes; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a very demanding process, which indeed requires a very careful political evaluation. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to do so. i would like to remind you of the major problems with which we adopted the stability and growth pact in the first place and that there were major questions about whether investment in education should be included in the budget deficit. it was not only members of the spe group who questioned this at the time, but also members of the ppe group. i would therefore really argue that we should not have a debate, which is absolutely necessary when we put questions, but that we should do the work in the committees. we have mr solbes in the committee, we are discussing this and we have the opportunity here in the plenary to make our balanced and appropriate judgment with the help of the report by our rapporteur.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to inform the house of a matter which has given rise to discussion in the run-up to the agenda. the epp group and some others had asked to have a debate on euthanasia this week. the conference of presidents has unfortunately rejected this proposal. we have nevertheless refrained from objecting to the agenda, since we have been informed that some groups are in favour of a debate here in the european parliament, but perhaps at another time. we therefore want to enter into dialogue with these other groups, because we are not against discussions and against talks, but we want to have the discussion. we are, however, very disappointed that the dutch minister, mrs borst, has not taken part in the debate and has refused an invitation to hearings. but that should not prevent us from entering into dialogue with the other groups and perhaps putting a motion on the agenda for march. i would like to say this for the sake of clarity, because many questions have been discussed in this context. (applause from the centre)
madam president, i just want to ask for your attention. there's over 30 people up here. but when someone logs on to this site, it's almost never noticed. mrs flemming came forward at the very beginning. i just wanted to ask that you look to the right side of the house when you get word messages.
the commission has already done so. first of all, and also on this occasion, i would like to thank you, commissioner, and your team for your very constructive and dynamic cooperation. there is a good example of this from the last few days. the final categorisation of european union ports within the framework of the transeuropean networks has attracted particular attention in the case of the so-called medium-sized ports, particularly as a european dimension of these ports provides the growth and investment incentives that are vital for the region to which they belong. the solution which has been found so far through mediation is acceptable, but i would ask that at least some goodwill be shown in the design of the ports, since the boundaries are essentially arbitrary. the medium ports will thank you and us. it is a matter of public record that the commission and parliament are not giving themselves a break. we are discussing proposals to improve safety at sea, step by step. the situation on the seas is such that we cannot afford to take a break. the tragedy off the galapagos is just the latest in a chain of disasters with devastating effects on nature and man. the public is sensitized, and the debate on security regularly flares up again. we must make it clear to the coastal communities concerned that the european problem has been tackled correctly, although late, after years of insistence. europe is doing something about safety at sea and pollution prevention. this must be our clear signal to the imo and the world, today and in the future. the commission presents its proposals in almost record time. we passed the erika i package last november. the council reached an agreement at the end of december, which means that the directive can enter into force from 2002. erika ii is on the horizon and i am delighted that the second package will also bring real progress in maritime safety. however, it should be noted that there is a huge amount of work being done on the ground by the inspectors of the classification societies and the port states. i was able to see this for myself when i visited the port of antwerp last week with our colleague willy piecyk. auditors face great demands and expectations, and we need to support them in this. the present report by mr bakopoulos makes a valuable contribution to further progress in security. the fact that the committee voted unanimously on this suggests that his work was convincing. i am sure that the house will vote in the same spirit. i am not speaking for myself alone, but for a large majority, when i expressly welcome the establishment of the maritime safety regulatory committee mentioned earlier. i also expressly support the second part of the commission document, because what good is the committee if the existing directives and regulations are not adapted to the new structure? we do not need a hierarchy of competences, we need administrative clarity, not a dozen working groups or committees, but a clear and dynamic structure, and i believe that we are on the right track in europe and that we will set a good example for the world.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. at the mini-meeting two weeks ago we voted on the so-called railway package and agreed that this is a great success for parliament and for rail freight in the european community. tomorrow we shall be voting on the second reading of the savary report on interoperability in conventional rail transport in europe. the harmonization of technical standards is a necessary and important condition for safe cross-border rail transport. the commission's proposal is very technical and has been put to a great deal of work and effort by all parties at first reading. i should like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mr savary. the effort paid off. the council adopted all parliament's amendments, with a few exceptions. the european people's party group's positions are reflected in a large number of the amendments adopted by the council. that is why we have no further amendments at second reading. i had tabled an amendment in committee which parliament had adopted at first reading but which was not adopted by the council. three votes were missing for the adoption. the aim was to ensure that the certification and maintenance of warning systems is carried out by independent third party certifiers. the background to this request, in addition to the understandable economic interests in some member states, is a number of serious incidents in the railway sector, which may also be due to insufficient examination. these approvals and tests were and are partly carried out by the railway operators themselves and not by independent third parties. the committee's discussion showed that all parties, including the commission, were very sympathetic to this point. the wording now adopted in article 18 and annex vii reflects our concerns to a certain extent. but we cannot be completely satisfied today. the commission's commitment to include independent and professional railway certification and maintenance in the railway safety package merits the otherwise good compromise to be put on the table today as quickly as possible and not to bring forward another amendment in the plenary. however, we will be very careful in future railway dossiers to see whether the commission is keeping its commitments.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i've said everything that's important, and i can only underline it, but i'm happy to do that. i therefore congratulate my colleague, mr gilles savary, on his report and on his success in getting the directive on the interoperability of the transeuropean conventional rail system through the parliamentary hurdles. this was also urgently needed, because interoperability is the precondition and basis for the liberalization of international freight transport, which we have put on the track together with the railway package. the difficulties of conventional rail transport, as opposed to high-speed rail, are that we find in europe largely incompatible national systems which have materialised a huge volume of investment and can only be transferred gradually with new construction and modification, and that in the course of operation and of course in competition with the other modes of transport. however, the convergence process needs pressure for the sake of the railways' future. the directive should therefore be implemented swiftly. this is also good for creating a single market for the supply industry. i hope that the bodies and procedures for drawing up technical specifications will move forward quickly and focus first on what can be done quickly: train control, safety and signalling systems. the rapporteur and parliament have incorporated social provisions into the directive alongside the technical specifications, including the strategic consideration of the applicant countries in the drafting of the tsis. that's good. i would have liked to see a clearer vote for independent third parties in the certification of safety aspects, as long as we still have monopoly situations in some countries and therefore, of course, conflicts of interest in certification or self-certification. the reference to subsidiarity seems to me to be too brief in this context, that is to say in the context of security issues. i am happy to follow mrs jeggle on this point and i am now hoping for the railway insurance package.
mr president, i should like to draw your attention to the fact that the rapporteur is not present. i would like to read a short text. i'm not authorized to do this, but i'm the coordinator of the ppe. i think that this text - this is a text from my group - gives us at least a good introduction. it's very short. i would suggest that we proceed with the list of speakers as far as the members are present. since you all seem to agree, i would like to read to you the english text, which i have taken from the epp highlights on cod stocks in the irish sea.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. first of all, i should like to make it clear that we will have ample opportunity to discuss general aspects of fisheries policy during the coming week in strasbourg, when the green paper on fisheries policy reform will be presented. i would therefore like to say a few words here today on the report which is just about to be presented. i think it is quite clear, and it is certainly not wrong, that we are faced with cod stocks in the irish sea at historic lows. it is certainly not wrong to say that if we want to protect the cod stock, there is only one thing to do, and that is to leave the stocks alone during the spawning season. it is therefore very important to close the spawning grounds in good time before spawning begins, even if this is very painful and even if it naturally causes problems for the fishermen. time is running out, for the spawning season begins in the middle of this month. i know that all those involved, and i thank the committee on fisheries and the rapporteur in particular, have made a great effort so far to ensure that we achieve this objective in time. they will vote on the report tomorrow and then there is just enough time left for us to get a decision in the council and the regulation is there on 15 february. the commission fully agrees with this report and i would like to thank you again for your support. the amendment tabled is very important. i am sorry to say that i must reject this amendment. why would you do that? we have made a number of experimental catches with semi-pelagic trawls in the last year, precisely in the second half of the closure period. these tests have clearly shown that the risk to the cod is very high during this period and that there is a very high amount of cod being caught. but we in the commission are prepared to allow semi-pelagic trawls during the first half of the closure period, under the conditions that mr nicholson has indicated, namely that there is a specific monitoring system under article 3 and that if too much cod is caught, the activities will be stopped immediately. we also know that this second condition, which i have mentioned, involves a certain risk, but with the monitoring system we can know exactly next year in the event of another closure whether or not this exception for the first part of the closure period can be carried out next year.
- thank you very much, commissioner fischler! you spared us. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the next item is the report (doc. (the sitting was closed at 8.30 p.m.)
president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly a good thing that once a year there should be a general debate on the state of the union. i would like this debate to be a step forward on the road to 2001. this road is obviously marked by many events and many priorities which we shall describe in this speech, but above all it is the road which has already been taken - indeed i would say it is almost finally being taken - towards the direction of europe of tomorrow. the commission, which i have the honour of chairing, has always asked to be judged on the basis of facts and it is therefore very important to me that cooperation between the commission and parliament and fruitful relations between the commission and the member states in the council lead to serious and concrete results. that is why i hope that this annual meeting will become a privileged occasion for joint, open and free reflection, for discussing our successes and our problems in a constructive way, in order to achieve the projects that are important to the european citizens. i know that, on such occasions, the protocol tradition requires the president to describe in detail the policies implemented, but i do not think i am doing anything unwelcome by suggesting that i depart a little from that tradition, preferring to limit myself to the main priorities for 2001 and the broader question of the future of europe. in fact, i shall say very little in the last 12 months. when i stood before you a year ago, i announced the four strategic objectives which my commission had set itself: first, to promote new forms of governance at european level; secondly, to stabilise europe and strengthen our presence worldwide. thirdly, to redefine economic and social priorities and, finally, fourthly, to improve the quality of life for all. to improve the quality of life for european citizens, we have published our white paper on food safety and a proposal for a regulation laying down the basic requirements and principles of food law. we have also proposed the establishment of a european food authority, which will be operational this year. we have also proposed the establishment of a european aviation safety authority and, after the erika disaster, we have drawn up new, strong legislative instruments on maritime safety. to promote a new economic and social agenda for europe, we presented strong and detailed proposals to the lisbon european council, which have given the european union an integrated strategy to transform it into the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy in the world. the key factor in the stabilisation of our continent is our strategy for enlargement of the european union. throughout the year, the commission stepped up its negotiations with the applicant countries and launched a public debate on a proper immigration policy. (applause) i would like to thank finally, we have started work on promoting new forms of european governance and we expect to publish a white paper on this subject by the summer. on the whole, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has kept its commitments during the year 2000 by seeking simple and clear solutions. today, before this house, i want to say that i am very proud of the commission staff, for whom 2000 was a year of radical internal reforms. the members of the college and i realise that we have asked a great deal of our colleagues, not only in terms of workload but also and above all in terms of adaptation to new working methods and a different conception of individual responsibility in their work. internal reform, which is not in itself a political objective, is one of the major tasks for 2001. in fact, any organisation of any kind has a duty to constantly adapt to the changing world around it. that's what we're trying to do right now. however, an administration cannot live too long under such stress, whatever the objective requirements imposed on the changes required. i have therefore decided to complete the internal reform quickly, in full compliance with all our commitments and in a climate of concertation and transparency. the commission's policy choices are set out in its work programme for 2001, which was adopted at the end of january and sent to parliament immediately. the most important ones are organized around a number of main events. it is not a random assembly of disparate projects, the common thread is always the same: the commission's proposal is to be based on the principle of subsidiarity. the debate on the future of the union, to which i shall return shortly, also falls within this context. let me first, however, list in detail the most significant initiatives of this year. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, all our work since lisbon and in the context of stockholm has been guided by a constant objective: the european union is a global community of citizens, and we must leave our children a europe of dynamism, equity and prosperity, a europe where citizens have modern skills, good jobs and play an active role in the communities in which they live. on the basis of the commission's contributions, the lisbon summit last year produced a strategy to achieve this objective. the european council in stockholm next month will, on the basis of the commission's reports, examine the progress made, the areas where we are making great strides but also those where we are lagging behind. one of the key objectives of our strategy is to restore conditions conducive to full employment. we are already seeing some encouraging progress: last year, 2.5 million jobs were created, more than two thirds of which went to women. the figures are very high indeed, but of course, to solve the problem of unemployment, this must be repeated for several years. in some areas, however, as our stockholm report shows, progress has been far too slow. the european leaders must therefore show greater political will and recognition of the urgency of keeping the promises made in lisbon, for example on the community patent, the galileo programme and the liberalisation of gas and electricity: i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. in addition, we do not yet have a coherent strategy for lifelong learning. what is needed, then, is a fresh impetus to step up action in some key areas. in our stockholm report we identified ten of these areas, in particular - i do not want to list them all - frontier technologies, integrated financial markets, new skills and mobility in european labour markets. in stockholm i will ask the heads of state and government not to miss the opportunity and not to be satisfied with the achievements made: we must proceed with absolute determination along the path of reforms already agreed in lisbon. to give you an idea of our report, i shall make three recommendations in particular: first, to remove barriers which discourage entry into the labour force or which limit the mobility of workers. this requires more efficient tax systems, more investment in education and lifelong learning and, finally, specific measures to address the knowledge gap. measures are also needed to ensure the transferability of professional qualifications and pensions across sectors and countries. secondly, and again as an example, we must speed up economic reforms. the services account for three quarters of our gross domestic product, and yet there is still no real internal market for this sector. thirdly, europe must be at the forefront of innovation to enable us to create a european research area. i don't need to illustrate this point. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must find a sustainable balance between our policies in order to preserve, also for future generations, all the vital resources of europe, our economic heritage but also our social capital and our environment. to achieve this balance in the long term, a sustainable development strategy is required. this is precisely the strategy that the commission is developing and which will be discussed at the high point of the current presidency, the european council in gothenburg. we aim to translate the concept of sustainable development, which is itself rather abstract, into concrete and understandable terms and into concrete, visible initiatives that affect the productive side and the habits of citizens. it will therefore be a strategy geared to innovation and to increased investment in this direction, also exploiting the possibilities offered by frontier technologies: a strategy to set prices at a level that better reflects the costs of environmental degradation. a long-term policy project of this kind obviously requires effective prior consultation. i have already written to you, madam president, to promote this debate, suggesting that a major debate be held on this subject in the european parliament. the opinions of this house will be of great help to the commission in defining its strategic proposal for the gothenburg summit, a proposal which - i repeat - must be concrete, otherwise it will become a blank summit. we also intend to stimulate a lively discussion not only within the european institutions but, more generally, with our fellow citizens by publishing a consultative document. our aim is to outline a comprehensive, coherent and long-term direction for the management of european affairs. turning now to relations with the rest of the world, we are getting clearer signals from our fellow citizens every day that if we really want to harness the forces of globalisation in the interests of all, we must be prepared to take decisions in this area too. in the short term, this means that a new round of trade negotiations will be one of our priorities for 2001, even if it is not entirely up to us. a new round is the best way to consolidate the multilateral system with further trade liberalisation, accompanied by new rules that respond to the needs of civil society. we must also start negotiations in such key areas as competition and investment, with a real focus on the interests of developing countries. developing countries themselves are at the heart of this new process. trade policy cannot be limited to addressing the interests of the business community: we must make sure that it benefits the poorest people in the world. we therefore hope that the council and parliament will accept this month our proposal to allow the 48 poorest countries in the world to export everything to the european union except arms: all kinds of goods without quotas and duty. (applause) i would like to thank the united nations secretary-general called me yesterday after his trip to the middle east and at the end of it asked me explicitly to ask you and the council to carry forward this project which commissioner lamy and the whole commission and the presidency wanted, and which is a change, with all the problems it will entail for us and for our countries. we are also prepared to cooperate on trade matters with the new administration and the new us congress. president bush obviously has his own regional priorities, but i know that he and his staff do not underestimate the importance of the multilateral system. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, another important event is, of course, the introduction of the euro at the end of the year. once it takes the form of sound coins in our pockets, the euro will become a tangible daily reality for citizens. over the next 10 and a half months the commission will work hard with the swedish and belgian presidencies to complete the preparations for this very important event: it is an event that will make history and will forever touch the lives of europeans. but it requires a huge organizational machine, one that is unprecedented. however, not everyone is happy with the idea of abandoning their old currencies for the new one, and i am not ruling out initial difficulties. we must therefore make a serious effort to make the public understand that the euro will bring benefits to everyone and that it will become synonymous with a vibrant and modern economy. it is already a symbol of a uniquely european project, carried out in the time and manner envisaged by and for europe. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude by returning to the point i raised earlier. the debate on the future of europe after nice. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and for the work he has done. first of all, to exist, which is not a small thing; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second merit is that it opens the post-nice phase, which promises to open a wide-ranging debate on the future of the european union. in january i said to you, following the declaration annexed to the treaty, that this process would be initiated by a first stage of 'open reflection'. the european council in december could then have opened a second phase, which i proposed to call 'structured reflection', which would have finally led to a short and decisive intergovernmental conference. i am convinced that this is the process we need and i have the impression that this idea is now widely shared. what i would like to talk about today is mainly the first phase because it concerns 2001. the open debate we have entered is, in my view, essential for three reasons: the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. the debate involving all levels of society is therefore necessary and necessary in order to revive and complete the great project of european union. secondly, because of the disappointing outcome of the nice conference, what was most lacking in nice was the previous in-depth debate on what we expect from europe and for europe. the debate has been going on for a long time, but it has never gone to the essential points, and this debate cannot reasonably be postponed. thirdly, and finally, because of the most widespread impression, which i share, that the logic of the "unspoken", of constructive ambiguities, has now run out of ammunition. we have now entered a new phase, where the fundamental issues are before our eyes and cannot be avoided. since 1981, the community and then the union have been continuously involved in a process of adjustment, restructuring, enlargement and adaptation; for almost a generation we have been experiencing a permanent institutional earthquake, which has ended up up uprooting the points of reference of public opinion in our countries and casting a shadow of doubt on the soundness of our choices and the coherent line we have followed. we have made choices of historic importance which will bring about the unity of the continent. it would be absurd and dangerous to let such unity be built around a vague pact, only sketchy commitments or defeatist rethinking. what debate are we talking about? it is a debate on refoundation, that is, a constitutional debate. i have confidence in the judgement of our fellow citizens and their elected representatives, not least because we are putting the debate on the right level: the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe, and it is not the curve of cucumbers or the art of making up or twisting things, but the real issues, the issues of concern to the people, who, moreover, in general, want not less but more europe. the questions which europeans are asking themselves are not only not about cucumbers but, let us admit it, they are not even mainly about the institutional debate which has been going on since maastricht and which is now - and this is undeniable, especially after nice - going nowhere. i think the real problem is that at some point we have lost the thread of agreement between our member states on the direction to take. the tricky protocols, the complicated formulas are failing to hide our differences. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must finally get to the bottom of this. it is natural that there should be differences of opinion on the ultimate aims of the european union, since, fortunately for us, we are different. but i find comfort in the thought that, if nothing else, on the essence of the project it is possible to find a community of intent. this brings me to the real questions, the ones that i expect the public debate to focus on, such as: we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. we are all aware of the fundamental stakes on which the future of our peoples depends, given that our states, left to themselves, would have infinitely greater difficulties in asserting their existence and their identity in the world. another question . what level of economic and social solidarity are we prepared to establish among ourselves? we are not only trying to avoid monetary shocks or the risk of fragmentation of the whole market, but we are also convinced that our peoples must help each other and participate in a common enterprise. and then again: are we equally supportive of our internal security and our external security? and then: what kind of environment are we leaving for future generations? finally , what are the most effective instruments for enabling the peoples of europe to protect and assert our values of democracy, solidarity and justice? that is, in my view, the kind of question we must ask ourselves in this year's debate. these are eminently political questions, not institutional questions, and the answers to these questions depend on how we choose to live and work together. by opening this great debate on these issues, do you not think that i am inviting the citizens and you yourselves to start a discussion without any fixed points, starting from a tabula rasa? we are talking in the light of all that has been achieved of great and useful importance in the 50 years of the community and the union. we are talking about a europe which has achieved peace, prosperity and, more recently, the single currency. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with the help of all of you, our national parliamentarians, our governments, we must put these questions on the table and stimulate responses. in doing so, let me be clear, i am not confusing public debate, open to the widest possible range of civil society, with democratic representation. parliamentarians, european and national, have a special legitimacy as elected representatives. this will therefore have to be taken into account when it comes to structuring all this reflection and translating it into concrete results. we will then enter the second stage, after laeken. no one can conceive of it without the strong involvement of the european parliament and also of the national parliaments: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. after laeken and after adequate preparation, structured reflection will have to be based on a formula which brings together all the players - the european parliament, the national parliaments, the governments and the commission - a formula which will receive progressively more precise connotations at laeken itself and then at the subsequent european councils in 2002. it is through this interactive process of dialogue between the european council and the convention, or conference, or assembly, or forum - i do not venture into the dangerous terrain of terminology - that the questions could be clarified and all the institutional consequences could finally be drawn. as you will have understood, the scope of this undertaking cannot be limited to the four issues decided at nice. i fully support michel barnier when he says, as he did before your committee on constitutional affairs, that we are going to have to draw up a coherent and sustainable plan for our enlarged union. the commission will of course do its part and take various initiatives: the commission has already done so by proposing in particular the work of restructuring the treaties, which is already on the table; it will continue to do so by assisting parliament and the successive presidencies in organising the wide-ranging and in-depth debate provided for in the nice declaration. the commission will then do so by means of the white paper on the forms of government. you cannot expect this white paper to provide a ready-made delimitation of the union's and the member states' competences. it will not be on this constitutional ground that it will be placed, but it will contribute to it by aiming at defining the instruments of genuine administrative decentralization and the ways of applying common policies at the most appropriate level, that is, as close as possible to the citizens. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is sometimes said - and i think it is - that the building of europe is the most important event of the second half of the twentieth century. at every stage of its development, it has inevitably been met with detractors who have called it an unrealizable, or even laughable, utopia. instead, at the end of 2001, we will see coins and notes that, when this project was conceived, were said things that i don't even have the heart to repeat. yet we have come to where we have come, and we all should be proud of that. (loud and prolonged applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we welcome this debate on the commission's work programme for 2001, although we believe that this debate is being held late and that, because of nice, there was perhaps no other way than to hold this debate today, in february 2001. but we would like to have this debate in the autumn of the year preceding the year whose programme we are discussing, and that is what has been agreed. i would like to say a very critical word to the council: ladies and gentlemen, i think it is a scandal when the commission proposes its programme and the council of ministers and the presidency are not here! we cannot accept this! (applause from the centre) that is the problem today. the foreign ministers travel the world, which i do not criticize, because that is their job as foreign ministers. the european parliament is the only institution in the european union that has the power to decide on the future of the union. it follows that we must say that european policy is no longer foreign policy, and the fact that european policy is being housed in the hands of foreign ministers - and not being here - is further proof that it is no longer up to date, and we must change these structures. we need personalities in the governments who only care about europe. (applause from the right) that is why i am calling for a council of european ministers, which can then be present here in parliament at all times. europe is not shaped by a few big speeches by foreign ministers, but by the daily work on the future project of europe. that is why we are calling for structural changes in the council of ministers. (applause from the right) we are pleased to hear that the french president, jacques chirac, is calling for this public debate on the post-nice process, as has commission president prodi. we want a broad public debate on the future of our continent, and mr president of the commission, we as a group - i cannot speak for the whole parliament - are on your side, we are your allies when it comes to the future of europe. we want to strengthen it as a community body because we do not see the council of ministers at present having the strength to be a community body and a representative of the common interest. you have spoken of the involvement of the european parliament in this process. we'd like to be a little more specific. our party family, the european people's party, decided and recommended at its congress in berlin in january of this year that we should have a reform conference structured on the model of the convention, that is to say with the participation of the european parliament, the national parliaments, the government, the commission and the council. we want to have signals this year in stockholm, then in gothenburg and finally in laeken under the belgian presidency that such a conference can begin its work in 2002. the conference should be the focal point of the great public debate in europe, and it should be organised in such a way that it can be launched. the second point is asylum and immigration policy. we are asking the commission, mr president, to give priority to the policy of a common policy on asylum and immigration, because we see that national policies are not producing results. only a common policy can solve these difficult problems. the chancellor of a major country, namely the federal republic of germany, has said that if we agree on the principles of asylum and immigration policy, we can also move quickly to majority decision-making. i ask the commission to press ahead with the work so that, once the basic principles have been agreed, we can reach majority decisions on asylum and immigration policy as soon as possible. but we also call on the commission to take the consequences into account in its initiatives. for example, when it comes to family reunification, we have the impression that you want to take into account a group of people who are not easily identifiable. we ask that you bring the family reunion back to the core so that we don't have repercussions that are no longer manageable. overall, asylum and immigration policy must be an important area. the third point: the economic centre is europe. as everyone knows, we will have the single european currency in our hands on 1 january 2002, an epochal event which, as the president of the commission rightly pointed out, will change europe. but we must also strengthen europe's competitiveness by enabling small and mediumsized enterprises to invest, because that is where jobs are created. i think we need to step up our efforts here. as regards the enlargement of the european union, we are committed to welcoming the first members into the european union by 2004. i would ask you, mr president of the commission, to draw up a public information programme so that we can convince people in our own countries that enlargement of the european union is necessary and in europe's historical interest. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. mr president of the commission, let us work together on this. we are at your side as you strengthen the community institutions. we call on the council not to refuse but to make its contribution to this project for the future of europe. if we do this together, we should succeed. but the council must now do its job, after the commission and parliament have gone ahead. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. nice was a step backwards in integration policy there was no sign of a stronger democracy, more transparency, more capacity to act and take decisions! i therefore believe that post-nice must be used to save the union from nice. i would like to mention four points which are important to me in a short time. firstly, i call on the council to correct the number of seats for the czech republic and hungary in the european parliament immediately, there must be no discrimination against these two countries! secondly, a clear common starting point for the debate on the future of the union is needed. thirdly, the convening of a reform conference on the model of the convention, which also has the legitimacy and authority to propose reforms, and fourthly, i believe that the intergovernmental conference should be preferred, because it cannot take place in 2004, at a time when the legislatures of the commission and parliament are expiring and both institutions cannot be fully involved.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! we're now starting a discussion process that looks like this: the amsterdam leftovers, which we now call the nice shortcomings, must be solved in post-nice. i think we also need to have a clear procedure for this. it is not enough to present this year as a great and flourishing debate in which civil society is taking part, as mr swoboda rightly criticised, but the question arises as to the clearly defined methods of involving the european parliament, the involvement of the national parliaments, the clear question of whether it is a convention or not, and what role does the convention play in the final drafting of the documents to be adopted in post-nice? the question is whether this will be a folkloric declaration adopted in a convent there, and whether the 15 will behave on the decisive night as they did in nice. i think it is necessary to clarify here, both in terms of the method and the objectives, where we are going. this cannot be left in the dark. moreover, consideration must also be given to the question, after almost all the heads of government have said that the nice decisionmaking structures are bad, of the methods by which things can perhaps be put right even before the post-nice procedure, for example in connection with the enlargement treaties, in which this has been clarified in the past. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. enlargement is the second major issue we have. we must do our historic duty here. this brings me to the third point. we must ensure that transatlantic ties are not suffocated by new discussions on security policy, that the americans do not understand us with our security and defence initiative and that we do not understand the americans with their missile defence system. i think that we can say, first of all, that enlargement is our own great achievement in terms of security policy. secondly, if we develop our own capabilities, they are part of the atlantic alliance, which will continue to be responsible for collective security in europe. i think that this gives us the opportunity, thirdly, to create the conditions for a transatlantic market place. the current negotiator for the american president, robert zoellick, is the author of the 1990 transatlantic declaration. i ask that we continue this tradition to make the ocean narrower again. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, i have three brief remarks. firstly, the first phase does not only include the public debate - i agree with mr swoboda and mr brok on this - but also the laeken declaration. my very clear question to you is: are you - the commission - prepared and will we succeed in presenting a joint proposal from the commission and parliament for laeken this year to further structure the 'post-nice' process? that is the first question, which is about the method. as regards the second question, i welcome your mention of the need to create a body for the participation of governments, the commission, the european parliament and national parliaments. we want to have a convention for the further development of the post-nice process, a convention which is a centre of gravity for public debate, that is to say, the addressee and the originator of proposals, and at the same time presents a clear proposal for the intergovernmental conference and for the subjects to be negotiated in 2004. the third question concerns the topics. four themes are envisaged, which are appropriate and feasible: but we all know that not only do these issues need to be clarified, but that much more is at stake for 2004 and must be. i would like to advise all of us to get away from this strange term "post-nice". it's not about "after-nice". nice is not only the end of a method, but it is also the end of an era, the era of the european integration process of the 1950s, 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. the european union is not a political union, but a political union. it is not about the 'post-nice process', but about the fact that we are on the verge of a renewal of the european integration process. that needs to be clear. if we want to win over the public, if we want to win over the public debate, if we want to win over the people, the citizens, to our objectives of european unification, then it is not enough to initiate a 'post-nice process', but we must make it clear to the people that we are talking about a new european union in a new europe, which has changed since 1990! (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. there's a ghost in europe. it is the spectre of intergovernmentalism. the tendency towards intergovernmentalism driven by the council has led europe to the dead end of nice, and on this issue, mr prodi, we are the commission's natural allies. the commission and parliament must work closely together on this issue. the commission's administrative behaviour is sometimes criticized by parliament, mr prodi, but this is not a fundamentalist opposition to the commission, it is an expression of our democratic control. in doubt, it brings us closer together and does not separate us! the national parliaments have been consulted. i am very much in favour of a convention, not a forum, preparing the next steps, because those who act in a convention are democratically legitimised, such as the representatives of the council, the commission, parliament and the european parliament. we must not allow ourselves to be swayed by the arbitrariness of so-called socially relevant groups. it would be important if this view were also clearly expressed in the commission. we must also reflect on the role of national parliaments in the european process. it is important that the national parliaments control the council. that's their job. they have no control over community institutions such as the commission or even parliament. the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the commission's proposals. they cannot limit the role of the european parliament. we also attach great importance to this clarification. asylum and immigration will be a focus of the commission's work. we are not here to draw up a european code of asylum and immigration, but - as mr vitorino has rightly said - individual directives. but we need a common approach, which we still lack and which the commission has yet to develop. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the commission! i don't want to say anything to nice, since no one's listening anyway. the chairman of the ppe group complained bitterly earlier that no one was listening to him. i shall concentrate on the commission's project in the field of foreign and security policy. there are two aspects to this, geographical and substantive. i agree with most of the commission's geographical listings, except for one point: there is no mention of the middle east. we have been and will hopefully continue to be the largest provider of aid and assistance to palestine and the region. it is not enough for me to be the financier of a process whose political content is decided by others. we need a different role, a stronger role in the middle east negotiations. we expect this to be understood not only as a task for the council and the high representative of the cfsp, but we expect an important, creative initiative from the commission. the commission's presence in the common european security and defence policy is essential. our parliament welcomed the developments in this area in mrs lalumière's report, but - and here i would like to follow the marxist excerpt of my colleague mr nassauer - a spectre is haunting europe, particularly in this area: the spectre of intergovernmentalism. our parliament wants a common and not an intergovernmental european security and defence policy. the commission is obliged, mr president, to strengthen the community dimension of this policy. they want to do it by contributing to crisis management and conflict prevention, and i think that is good! (applause from the centre)
- ladies and gentlemen, i have a request to make of you: please do not argue with the president of the commission during the debate, because that will prevent him from listening to the debate and he certainly wants to listen to it. (applause) i would like to thank
i am surprised that mr ferber is the next speaker to speak for two minutes! the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr president, you are in charge of the sitting and you should not be surprised. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the commission has presented us with a diligent work programme for 2001. so one thing is certain: she is diligent, she wants to be diligent. but when i look at what is added to the carryovers from the year 2000, that is to say, from last year's work programme, for this year, i am already worried that we will end up with only carryovers and no time for new initiatives. that is to say, you should think about whether you are not also anticipating what is to be worked out in the post-nice process, namely the question of the delimitation of competences, whether you do not have to concentrate on the essential and whether you could set a good example as the commission, as the body empowered to make proposals in this europe. this would ensure that you do not carry over so many issues to the next year or the year after, and that people are informed of the important decisions being taken in europe as a whole. i would really like to encourage you - and i have read with great attention everything you want to suggest - to check here whether one or another topic could not be considered as not absolutely necessary within the framework of a meaningful demarcation of competence. i would like to make a brief comment on a second point, because i am a strong supporter of representative democracy. i am a little concerned about your approach to new governance, which is the question of the role of an elected parliament which must be accountable, also at home, to the citizens, in relation to associations which do not have that responsibility. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. it is not the purpose of this new approach to give power to those who are not legitimate, while depriving those who are legitimate, namely us, the european parliament! (applause from the centre) the president. i think you misunderstood me earlier. my surprise was not in your person, but merely in the length of your speaking time!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can see that mr ferber's remarks are in line with what he said. i shall not comment on the many proposals which have been put forward in my area of work, that is to say in the field of environmental policy and consumer protection. i shall therefore not say anything about it because i assume that half of it will not be implemented, that half will be carried over to next year. in a german work certificate it would say: you have made an effort. but they would not want to use it to look for a new job, because they would not get one. when you talk about good governance, mr prodi, good governance also means that you assess yourself, your commission and decide what is possible in terms of time and manpower. to continue with good governance, what does good governance mean? what is this? is that transparency? i would like that, mr prodi. we all want transparency very much, but is more participation by the interest groups you choose and negotiate with alone more transparency? i'm telling you no, this is not transparency anymore. and to shorten the time of the proceedings, mr prodi. i am in favour of shortening the procedures, including the inter-service procedures in the commission. i am also in favour of shortening the procedures in parliament, i say self-critically, but is that why voluntary commitments with industry are the solution? are they going faster? and who controls them? who sanctions them if they don't work? is that more democracy, i ask you? you, mr prodi, were chosen by the heads of government and confirmed by us. but we in the european parliament have been elected by the citizens of the european union, directly. this european parliament, by the very definition of its existence, has a central role in civil society, as you so nicely say, and i hope that you see this in the same way from your understanding of democracy. i warn everyone in the commission, mr prodi, to change something about this central role of this european parliament. good governance seems to be the commission's first word at the moment, governance on its own or governance alone, and i urge you not to continue that! i therefore ask you to make it clear that the european parliament is the decision-maker and so is the body which you control! (applause from the centre)
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place at 12 noon. i would like to start the next debate now, however, because the night session schedule says that we are still here in 24 hours and therefore every minute counts.
- the next item is the oral question (b5-0008/2001) by mr rocard to the commission on community action on the social consequences of restructuring and mergers in the industrial sector.
- ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure, i have received a motion for a resolution from the committee on employment and social affairs. the vote on this motion for a resolution will take place on thursday.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you for giving me the floor, even though i have not written a book and i have not read many books. the protection of intellectual property has always been a concern of the european union, of the european parliament, because we know that only this protection ensures that we have culture, that culture flourishes and that economic production takes place. it could have been a great moment for the european parliament. it's not that! we are seeing for the first time that the protection of intellectual property is being weakened. with the consent of the european parliament! we are seeing that the european parliament has only one objective: no mediation! after 18 months of deliberations in the council, we are told that we must act quickly. after 18 months of deliberation in the council! and then the council says 'unanimously', although it could have decided by a majority, and then the balance is struck, as is so often said. and then parliament is asked to leave it at that. then parliament will be superfluous! i have never seen members of parliament put under such pressure by their governments or parties. but if the council, the governments, are on both sides, in the council and in parliament, then we do not need parliament. parliament has its own responsibilities and must meet them. the common position has weakened the rights of authors dramatically. i am on the side of the authors and would ask parliament to restore at least some of these rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to join the rapporteur in thanking him. it is admirable how calmly and serenely he walked through this noisy marketplace of interests. we've been talking about the lobby. she was persistent, but overall, i think it was a fair fight. thank you for that too. there was a lot of talk about balance. i am afraid that the balance we need has not yet been found in the common position. the directive is in part to the detriment of the internal market, to the detriment of consumers and to the detriment of innovation. it is detrimental to the internal market because it is basically a cosmetic harmonisation, because member states defend with teeth and claws their legacy pay systems, which basically no longer fit into the digital world. we want to prevent this by at least proposing in amendment no 12 that the member states submit new systems of remuneration to the commission for a recommendation. the directive also harms the consumer because it is not impossible for the consumer to pay once when he buys a cd or a dvd and to pay a levy on it. but if he does want to make a copy, the file may be protected by a copy protection system, and the member states do not even commit themselves to taking action against such copy protection systems against legal copies. and the common position is anti-innovation because it's trying very hard to move the flat-rate systems into the digital future, even though the new technology is basically making flat-rate systems obsolete, because with copyright protection, it's possible to pay for copies directly to the author, and that's probably the fairest of all options. this is a directive for a people's europe. it offers citizens security and fair freedoms in the digital world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the common position, as amended by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, seeks to strike a fair balance between the interests of artists, authors and rights holders and the interests of consumers. the common position thus regulates when third parties may copy copyrighted works such as texts, graphics, music or films. the member states are also required to provide legal protection for copy protection arrangements. from the consumer's point of view, it is crucial that private copying is allowed in the future. there are - and this has been raised several times today - different views on what constitutes a private copy. i believe that the family environment must also be included in the definition. that means that the wording proposed, as adopted by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, has my full support. finally, it is important from the consumer's point of view that new systems of remuneration, i.e. charges on devices or data carriers, may only be introduced if they achieve a uniform level of charges throughout europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the committee on legal affairs and the internal market has put forward proposals on this subject, and i would ask for their support in the plenary tomorrow. the directive also lays down rules on whether broadcasters may in future also offer their archival productions on demand on the internet or whether they must first acquire these rights by contract from all the rights holders involved in the television productions in order to use them. the rights and archives of broadcasters are of immense cultural and historical value. that is why we must do everything we can to make these archives available for online use. i therefore urge that article 11 be supported, and i do not agree with my colleague mrs villiers on that. i think it is quite right to propose a special arrangement for public service broadcasting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. the rapporteur is often thanked at the beginning of his speech in the european parliament. i want to do that today, and i really don't want it to be a rhetorical question. david bowe has done an excellent job and brought a very difficult dossier to a close. i would also like to thank you, commissioner wallström, and the chairman of the conciliation committee, mr ingo friedrich. both have contributed to the agreement with great commitment; unfortunately, this cannot be said of all the other parties to the conciliation procedure. we have made good compromises. the new rules have created a high level of protection of health, consumers and the environment in europe. the controversial antibiotic resistance will no longer be allowed in europe in the future. close monitoring for potential environmental hazards is required. the labelling of genetically modified organisms is being improved, but we expect further action from the commission. we have not adopted any regulation which makes the application of green biotechnology impossible, and the epp group welcomes that. the epp group is in favour of green biotechnology, if it ensures that rules are respected to protect the environment and human health. yesterday, scientists and research leaders from around the world announced the complete decoding of the human genome. the euphoria aroused by this announcement worldwide is in a strange contrast to the vigorous opposition to the release of genetically modified plants, especially in europe. i believe that neither the euphoria of the human genome project nor the total rejection of genetically modified plants is appropriate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. the use of genetic engineering in medicine is by no means harmless; there have been deaths in the united states as a result of poor application of the rules in gene therapy research. the so-called reproductive cloning of humans is not a fantasy at all, but is being seriously pursued by some scientists. this has become clear again in the last few days. the artificial separation of human embryo clones for stem cell research from so-called reproductive cloning will not be sustainable in the long term. i believe that the first cloned baby will probably be born before the supposed blessings for the parkinson's or alzheimer's patients become a reality. so just as red genetic engineering is by no means only associated with opportunities, green genetic engineering is by no means only associated with risks. there is a realistic chance that we can make great strides in the field of renewable raw materials through genetically modified crops. by using specifically modified plants, we may soon be able to produce drugs cheaply and safely. we should therefore take advantage of the opportunities in both areas and limit the risks by means of appropriate legislation. the development of research into the human genome - we have hardly any rules in europe for this - and the release of genetically modified plants will lead to an appropriate regulatory framework for all member states in the european union when the preliminary report is adopted, and we should therefore accept this proposal. the epp group will vote in favour of the bowe report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and madam commissioner! the new directive is a huge improvement on the old one, and we all agree on that. for us greens, the public register was a very important and central concern. the monitoring is there and so is the long-term impact assessment. we welcome all this. we are not going to vote for the amendments, but we are going to vote for the amendments. we have a lot of confusion in the field of genetic engineering at european level, and there are no steps to identify derivatives, genetically modified organisms and their traceability. we have not settled the question of the export of genetically modified organisms to non-member countries. i think we have a moral responsibility here to apply the same standards to third countries as to ourselves, and above all we have not clarified liability as a central element. the european commission is supposed to make proposals here, but we do not know what they are. i think we're buying the cat in the bag. the bse crisis in particular should be a lesson and a warning to us. it is not acceptable that in the event of damage, the taxpayer is always asked to pay for it, so that the risks are socialized and the genetic engineering companies only get the profits. i therefore expect that there will be no new authorization of genetically modified organisms until liability is established by law. we have only a letter of intent, but we have no corporate responsibility, and it is not right that everyone who wants to register a car should have to provide proof of insurance, but someone with dangerous organisms whose long-term consequences, risks and dangers we do not yet know, does not have to do so. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i think we have a major crisis of confidence in consumer protection, and without labelling of derivatives, that is, without transparency and without accountability, without responsibility being taken on ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. i thank you for giving me the opportunity to present the seven-point plan for the conversion of beef production just adopted by the commission. what's the matter? we all know that the beef market is in a serious crisis; the european union consumption has fallen massively, with prices for young bulls falling by 39.2% in germany and 41.8% for cows. these historic lows have already triggered the intervention safety net in germany and the netherlands. i am sorry to say that our exports have also collapsed. there is a need for swift action. i'm sure that storing meat is not enough. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's beef and veal market is not affected by the introduction of the single market. we must therefore also change course quickly. the commission's seven-point plan is a kind of emergency package to prevent overproduction in the coming years by taking another step towards extensive production, towards sustainability and towards organic farming. but this plan is not a systemic revolution either, and for one simple reason: we must first give a chance to the reform that has just begun. the agenda 2000 reform has only been partially implemented. we have only taken the first step towards a total reduction of 20% in intervention prices, and this year and next year we will take another 7.1% reduction. the increase in direct payments and the tripling of extensification premiums are far from being implemented. in short, the full implementation of agenda 2000 in 2002 will in itself contribute to more extensive cattle farming and to more decoupled support. today we are talking about the crisis package in the wake of bse, which neither anticipates nor replaces the mid-term review of agenda 2000. i am not going to change my mind: in 2002, that is to say next year, the whole of the agricultural policy will be put to the test, as was requested in berlin. the commission will use 2001 to carry out in-depth analyses of the individual sectors in order to present a comprehensive, well-thought-out approach to the future. we must take this time to avoid being the victims of hasty political action. the seven-point plan is not a robbery of the european farmers either. it is the only chance of reducing the loss of income for farmers, at least in the medium term. the commission is unfortunately not in a position to make up the full loss of revenue with its financial resources. unmarketable beef, consumer distrust and skyrocketing costs are a highly explosive amalgam that can cause enormous damage to cattle farmers and agricultural policy. our seven-point plan is designed to help us remove the trigger from this ticking time bomb. but our plan also aims to ensure that beef is safer for the consumer than ever before, and that consumers can have confidence in beef again. let me now briefly outline these seven points. firstly, we propose to reduce the permitted stocking density for the special premium for male and female bovine animals from 2 to 1.8 livestock units. secondly, we want the member states to respect the so-called 90-head limit without exception, i.e. that a holding can only receive the special beef premium for a maximum of 90 head of cattle. both measures will increase the incentive to extensive production. thirdly, to make organic farming more attractive, we propose that organic farmers can grow fodder crops such as small grass on land that is being set aside. fourthly, the commission also intends to set the number of rights for the special premium for male bovine animals on an individual basis per holding. this measure will also reduce the incentive for intensive production. fifthly, our package also provides that a higher percentage - at least 20% and at most 40% - of the eligible animals, i.e. suckler cows, must be heifers. this should also help to reduce beef production, which is very much dependent on the number of suckler cows. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. ladies and gentlemen, let me say that the measures the commission is proposing today will not be fully operational for one or two years. there's no other way. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new forms of production. in the short term, we have to think about what to do with the huge quantities of unsold beef. with all our understanding of ethical discussions, with all our sympathy for those who say that the elimination of cattle is a tragedy, we should have no illusions. hundreds of thousands of cattle have been crowding into european stables for months, and farmers have been unable to find buyers for their old cows. the safety net has already been set up in two member states. this week alone we are likely to be stocking up to 30,000 tonnes of meat! but it's not enough. this brings me to the last point in the package of measures. once bse testing for animals over 30 months old is made compulsory in all member states, we want to replace the harmless disposal programme with a new special purchase programme. the member states can then decide whether they prefer to store the meat from cows at their own expense or whether they want to withdraw it immediately from the market. in any case, we will be reimbursing farmers together with the member states 30% of the value of the animal for the member state and 70% for the eu. this measure is nothing more than a temporary emergency measure which is intended to last until the end of this year at the latest. in the medium term, there is only one way forward: act today to limit the beef production of tomorrow, promote less intensive production methods and promote organic farming. i would therefore ask you to give your opinion on this proposal as soon as possible. thank you for your attention.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. well, that sounds great, with a lot of cosmetics. why not really make the switch and get away from the eternal quota regulations, ceilings, minimum and maximum manning densities, slaughter and breeding premiums? why don't you give the farmer money as a direct payment and say, 'you decide, you slaughter the calves now with more or less breeding weight, or you even stop production'? would it not have been wise to do so? i would also ask you: do you make the guillotine for farms with more than 90 animals, and then in fact make it a rule that they should not receive any support at all?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the measures are going in the right direction. they remain in the system, although there is a need to revise it for the next reform and take greater steps. but this is giving the right signals. one thing i'd like to point out is why don't you split the cop bonuses for a transition period? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i note, by the way, that the figure of 90 animals applies to each holding; it's not that farms with more animals are an exception to the rule, which was wrongly reported in the newspaper.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i promise you, i'll be much shorter. the question of mrs roth-behrendt is the same as that of the others: we should be clear about one thing: what we are proposing here today is not a new agricultural reform. that's what i said. we don't have the means to do that right now. i think it would be wrong to consider only one reform of the cattle sector in isolation. if we are talking about agricultural reform - and we will do so in due course, you can be sure, you will hear from us - then we must include, for example, the question of silo maize, the question of the milk quota, the question of what is to become of the relationship between dairy and beef cattle. but you can't do that in that short time if you want to prepare something carefully. so what we have on the table today is certainly no more, but no less than a clear concept of how we are going to get out of this current crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. under the current system, there are no quotas for individual cattle farmers. we must now introduce quotas for individual cattle farmers. i think what you meant was that we should release the whole thing and transfer it to rural development. but this is precisely the kind of question which can only be resolved in the context of a general debate on agricultural reform. i am - i say this quite openly - against the guillotine. i am against killing tools in general and therefore against the guillotine, and i am therefore in favour of this 90-animal limit being seen as a franchise, which means that everyone gets up to 90 animals. mr maat said that this was a contradiction because it made no difference whether it was a large or a small farm in terms of bse cases. i think you're absolutely right. the 90-animal limit is also not a bse control measure but a measure to create incentives for farming in the cattle production sector to become more extensive in the future. we have examined what mr graefe said about the early-market premium for baringdorf. the thing is, we had a premium like that in 1996 and in subsequent years. we have calculated that this premium alone has cost 200 000 million euros. the effect of this is therefore rather questionable, because at least 40% of the low-weight calves are slaughtered. this means that we would be paying a premium to approximately half of the calf farmers with zero effect. that is why we have refrained from this measure, given the scarcity of funds.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, if the greens have finally got their laurels, is it not right to take the much simpler route of a climate-related greenland premium, and forget everything else, in the whole complex structure of the premium? secondly, commissioner, i would like to point out that there is one point which needs further clarification, because i believe that otherwise the single market will fall apart. if the cost of disposing of animal meal and materials from animals slaughtered is not uniformly regulated in the member states, but is partly collected by government charges and partly passed on to farmers through prices, how do you propose to solve this problem? otherwise we cannot sustain the single market.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. as regards the question by mr mulder concerning herd slaughter, there is no community regulation which requires that if a case of bse occurs in a herd, a herd slaughter must be carried out in any case. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is important to the commission that there is a plan for what to do in the event of a bse case. this plan shall be submitted to the commission and shall be assessed by the commission's scientific committees; if the latter finds the plan acceptable, it will be automatically approved by the commission. so far, this has worked pretty well. as regards the cost of the test, i would like to remind you of what i said earlier in connection with mr böge's question. as regards the massive import of meat into europe, i would like to put 'massive' in a relative sense, because the european union imports relatively little beef. the question of the removal of risk material and, above all, whether this meat comes from animals that have been tested or whether these animals have been guaranteed not to be fed meat and bone meal in this country is clear and must be implemented accordingly. the commission is currently preparing proposals to this effect, and my colleague mr byrne is working on it. i do not know how mr jové peres can say that the slaughter premiums in the south are twice or several times as high. i've never heard of that. the bounties are the same everywhere. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the point of this disposal scheme is that we are considering meat that cannot be stored at all, that is not eligible for intervention. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's milk market is not affected by the introduction of the single market. there's been a lot of criticism here. we had proposed to dispose of the meat from old cows, but we want to take this criticism into account and therefore now offer two options: either a member state is following the british example over the last five years - which has worked perfectly well in some other member states - or a member state has the option of buying these old cattle. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i am not saying that we should not be doing this, but if there are additional uses, and if individual member states see them, then they can make use of them. the 90-animal limit does not apply to cows, but only to the support under the special bovine premium, and here only stocks are supported, or up to 90 animals per year and no more. that 's the ratio . we have already made this proposal in the context of agenda 2000.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank you, commissioner, for point 7, the special purchasing programme, and i would like to emphasize that. it brings clarity. first, testing, then storage and, above all, each member state can decide. thank you very much for that. that creates a level of discussion that we can live with very well. i have a question about the occupancy rate. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the agricultural sector in the community. second question: i would like to welcome mr graefe to baringdorf with the fly, which is perhaps the reference to the fact that he now has the kleegras, we can of course also take the alfalfa grass, which is just as good: why don't we take the legumes that we urgently need as a substitute for animal flour on these areas, and why does everything have to be organic?
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if the commission submits a proposal for a directive, i assume that it is legally correct. that is why i have been appointed rapporteur. i also think that we should vote on this directive here very clearly.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. when we talk about supplements, we mainly mean vitamins, minerals, fatty acids, amino acids, and many more. so we are not talking about fortified foods or food additives. we are talking about nutrient concentrates, which are offered individually or in combination in the form of capsules, tablets, powders and similar dosage forms. vitamins and minerals are involved in a wide range of biochemical processes in the human body. an optimal intake of these substances is crucial for human health and performance. i think that the possibility of supplementing our daily diet with vitamins and minerals is very positive. the directive on food supplements is a means of approximating the laws of the member states. some member states currently classify food supplements as foodstuffs, others as medicinal products. the directive now clearly classifies foodstuffs. we are therefore correcting the imbalances for the producers. it also removes existing barriers to trade in the internal market. at the same time, we are creating legal certainty for european consumers. the commission proposal is generally welcome. however, the discussions in parliament have made it clear that amendments are necessary to certain points of the proposal. the area of application is highlighted. the commission proposal for a directive takes a narrow approach to the substances covered. this applies first of all to the permitted minerals and their compounds. the commission proposal does not cover some important minerals, although they are used in many countries of the european union. in principle, these minerals should be accepted. of course, the chemical compounds still need to undergo scientific review. this must be done before the directive enters into force in order to avoid the need to withdraw important food supplements from the market. in addition to vitamins and minerals, there are other substances that are classified as 'nutritional supplements'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is agreed that other substances, like vitamins and minerals, must undergo scientific examination before they are covered by the directive. however, a definition of these additional substances under the heading 'physiological' would create new problems of differentiation, particularly with regard to medical devices and medicinal products, and would lead to a completely unclear market situation, contrary to the objective pursued by the directive. a blurring of the distinction between medicinal products and food supplements would lead to a confusing situation regarding health claims, which have not been regulated to date. all this cannot be the aim of the directive on food supplements. the system of safe maximum quantities is to be welcomed as regards dosage and thus consumer health. however, we must also ensure that the consumer does not run the risk of exceeding the daily requirement for supplements by a large margin with the daily vitamin tablet. this would be detrimental to health, for example, in the case of vitamins a, d, b6. the commission proposal clearly takes account of this fact. i fully support this. the proposal for a directive provides for effective communication with the consumer with regard to the labelling of food supplements. the labelling is intended to guide the consumer in the proper handling of vitamin and mineral products. the highest standards of purity and quality are set for the products. both the individual substances and the product as a whole should be produced in accordance with good manufacturing practice. mandatory notification of products is essential to ensure a minimum level of regulatory control. the notification is only meaningful if it is uniformly applicable to all member states. the directive provides european consumers with a legal framework which places great emphasis on product safety and meaningful labelling, without restricting the range of products on the shelves, a legal framework which guarantees the free movement of goods while at the same time providing a high level of protection. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteur in conclusion for her cooperation. i thank you, mrs corbey.
mr president, i would like to support what my colleague nuala ahern has said, namely that of course physiological products should also be included. i welcome the inclusion of vitamins and minerals in the food category, because i think it is necessary that we also give mature consumers the opportunity to access them. i think the commission should be concerned about why food is losing so much of its vitamins, why, for example, broccoli has lost 80% of its vitamins in the last ten years. i am very much in favour of labelling not only the ingredients but also the method of production. there are vitamins that are more effective when produced naturally than when produced artificially. i think the consumer also has a right to know whether they have been produced by genetic engineering or not. i would like to make one final point, and that is what mrs sandbaek said. i would like to ask the commission specifically not to use this report to support 'functional' foods, because i share the view of mrs sandbaek that traditional foods should not be artificially enriched with vitamins. but i stress that we welcome this, because the consumer must be able to obtain additional vitamins.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. motorised two- and three-wheelers, i.e. motorcycles and scooters, are used mainly in two areas. firstly, to meet the needs of mobility in urban areas and as a leisure device, especially in sensitive landscapes with many beautiful curves. in both areas - and i say this as a passionate motorcyclist - the driver of such a vehicle has a special responsibility, because in urban areas as well as in sensitive natural areas, the stress caused by two-wheelers must not be greater than that caused by cars. it is therefore right and necessary that we ensure that motorised two- and three-wheelers have the same level of emissions as cars. the european parliament has made exemplary and very successful legislation reducing emissions from cars with euro iii and euro iv light and heavy duty vehicles, so that air quality in europe's cities and sensitive areas can be improved. and then it cannot be that we make an exception for motorcycles, for scooters. that is why the proposal to adopt a two-stage approach for motorcycles, scooters, a reduction in 2003, but above all - and this is important - a second reduction in 2006. of course, industry needs time to develop new engines, new exhaust systems. this is the time we must give industry - that is why the second important stage is 2006. what the commission is proposing for 2003 is basically the state of the art. the vehicles that are expected to meet these values are generally already on the road. it is not for nothing that there is a list of registration figures which say that over 80 vehicles already comply with the values for 2003. we do not want to tinker with this, we want a second binding stage for 2006, which will bring the level of motorised two-wheelers to the level of euro iii cars in 2000. but we want to start in 2003 with what we have already introduced in the case of cars and light and heavy goods vehicles, namely a focus on the durability of the components which are relevant to emissions. it is of course not very useful if a two-wheeler meets very high emission limits on the test stand, but in practice, after a few thousand kilometres, these limits are forgotten altogether. that is why we want to introduce in 2003 a sustainability approach for motorised two-wheelers and, if there is a serious suspicion that certain types are not complying with these emission limit values in the long term, to also create the possibility for the authorities to verify this in the context of a field monitoring, an in-use compliance. i'm told we can't do anything for 2006 because we haven't had a motorcycle test cycle yet. that's why we need to develop it first, and then we can do something. i don't agree with that. as with the heavy goods vehicles, we said it would be nice to have a worldwide cycle, but we want to set our target. the goal is to get to the same level in 2006 as cars in 2000, to give a little more time to the motorcycles, but then they have to get to that level. if there's no other test cycle by then, we'll just take the one that applies to cars. mr goodwill and i have given a little more lead time to some smaller manufacturers who have particular problems to make the switch to series production, and i think that is appropriate and does not affect the overall result. i believe that if we accept the proposals of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and enter into the negotiation process with the council, then in the future motorcyclists will be able to exercise their responsibility, their freedom, and that should be our common objective.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after the failed summit in nice, we would do well to recall an event which gave the eu great momentum: the luxembourg employment summit. the commission has succeeded in convincing member states to do more decisively for employability and adaptability, new entrepreneurship and equal opportunities. since then, exemplary measures in the member states have been a central element of the european employment strategy. the results of these measures will be thoroughly examined and evaluated: re-entry into working life, activities to improve equal opportunities, changes in exclusion, and the targeted creation of a favourable environment for the creation of new small and medium-sized enterprises. is it true that we say that european added value is created when actions in the member states are linked to community initiatives and community programmes for education, training and continuing training? we want to involve local and regional actors more in the form of pilot projects and therefore call for the resources proposed by the commission to be increased. i think that the priority is to improve the coordination of employment policy with economic policy. they're two sides of the same coin. we have to have the courage to do more than just be heard when defining employment policy guidelines. as the european parliament we must be more consistent in our participation in the november employment week in brussels, and here in strasbourg we must finally take the time to spend a whole day discussing the creation of jobs for the future and the implementation of the national action plans. the contribution of the social partners and the experience of workers affected by unemployment and those supported by job creation measures must be widely disseminated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as the author of the opinion of the committee on budgets on the swoboda report, the accession partnership with turkey, i fully support this document. the committee on foreign affairs has taken account of the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the following points were of importance to the committee on budgets: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the committee on budgets requested that community aid to turkey should no longer be financed under heading 4 of the financial perspective 'external relations' but that turkey's status as a candidate country should be taken into account by deducting the appropriations from heading 7 'introduction aid'. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt the draft budget for the financial year 2000 in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 104c of the treaty. the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the foreign affairs committee has gone further in the financial field, for example with its amendment which provides for the inclusion of turkey in the other financial instruments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the proposals made by mr swoboda for the council regulation are, in my view, appropriate. i think the regulation would benefit from that. i would also like to thank him for the explanation he has given and i do not want to repeat what mr swoboda, mr lagendijk or mr oostlander have said here, also in terms of criticism of the situation in turkey. the situation has not improved in recent weeks and months. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not want to go into that here. you, mr swoboda, said that the ball was now in turkey's court. i wonder what would come out of this austrian football language where should the goal be scored? the european union is not the only one to have a problem with this. it would certainly be necessary, and you would probably think that this process would result in democracy, human rights development, and the fulfillment of the political criteria of copenhagen. i think that the ball, which is actually on the turkish side, is understood in a completely different way there. i think that what has just happened there recently is more of a provocation, more of an attempt to understand the application for membership of the european union not as a goal, but as an end in itself, in order to gain access to financial resources, to the advantages of the customs union or even to the advantage of mitigating criticism of the situation in turkey. that brings me to the problem i want to raise. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in turkey and the turkish government's position on the situation in the region. since helsinki, and even there, it seems to me that the council and the commission are prisoners of their own propaganda and must now justify more and more that there is progress. mr verheugen, you told us here on 14 november, and i quote, 'that we can have legitimate hope of achieving exactly what we want to achieve, namely, that our policy will help the forces for reform in turkey to give new impetus to the reform process'. i'm saying that the realities are the opposite. i fully understand that diplomacy often needs to be cautious, but we should not be guided by our own propaganda and that of turkey, but we should be honest in the debate and strengthen the forces of reform and thus open the way for turkey to join the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when i am in turkey, i always hear that the european parliament is an enemy of turkey. we have made it clear here and today that this accusation is untrue. the debate on turkey, the speeches and the regulation, or at least the commission's proposal for a regulation and the rapporteur's report, which has been substantial so far, actually show that the european parliament has a great interest in helping turkey and in making it clear that it is not at all a question of hostility but of wanting to welcome turkey as a democratic country into the european union one day together with the people of turkey and formulating reasonable proposals to that end. the turkish parliament is listening to us and is following this debate here today. i want to tell you something from here: we have no great interest in talking over and over again about what is wrong in turkey, why we have to criticize them when they are doing their job in turkey. we are politicians and we are right to ask about politicians. i have here a quote from a turkish newspaper, not from a newspaper of a kurdish organization, and i quote, if i may, from the following: serdar tanis, the chairman of hadep in silopi, and ebubekir deniz, the secretary of hadep, have disappeared. on 25 january, they went to the police station in silopi on a summons from the gendarmerie and were never seen again. i think that's our problem. if such events are happening in turkey again and again and if nothing is done about it, then our legitimate criticism must be understood. we must be allowed to be very critical of the turkish question. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i want to pick up where mrs stenzel left off. we had reservations about accession status, but now it is here, and therefore turkey has the right to participate in the financial resources. i'm just saying. i welcome the fact that this regulation has now brought clarity, especially since the european union has done little in the last five years since the conclusion of the customs union treaty to actually meet its financial obligations towards turkey. this is a new beginning, and we fully support it. i would like to agree with mrs stenzel on the two programmes, but i would also say that it is not enough to consider the 177 million already allocated under the pre-accession strategy as a whole; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is our common concern and that is why we support the overall report by mr swoboda, not in all its aspects, not in all its amendments, but in its overall direction. the regulation provides for article 4 which allows the appropriations to be suspended under special conditions. this article 4 is necessary and it is now up to turkey to answer all the questions we have been raising for years and to make progress in terms of the basic democratic structure, the role of the military in the national security council, the implementation of human rights and minority rights. i think that, to our great regret, relatively little has been done in the last few months. on the contrary, we have the impression that the progress which was made in the second half of 2000 is now being reversed and that the turkish side, the government itself, has lost the courage to take these steps boldly and quickly. this article 4 is not a tool to be used at will, but only in the event that there are really serious shortcomings in this pre-accession process, and i hope that this article 4 will not have to be applied any time soon. the european union has a duty to ensure that the turkish people are not left behind. this misunderstanding among the turkish public has not been counteracted by either the political or the government. i would also ask my colleagues in the gallery to help to clear up this misunderstanding. there will be no accession unless it is on our terms.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the lisbon summit has left a great legacy; he has formulated a great mission and put a bold idea into the world. europe wants to become the most competitive area in the world by 2010. the summit has played the best card europe has. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is the most powerful productive force europe can make available. this core idea leads consistently to a policy approach which says: economic reform, social participation, social cohesion and employment promotion go together. they are mutually reinforcing parts of the same process on this road to success, and they must support each other. they can't be played off against each other. this is a challenge to some of us in our thinking. many of those who have spent their lives working for the existence of a common market will have to go a long way in their heads to realise that social cohesion and employment policies are the only means of developing the social productivity with which the common market can succeed. others, who have been proud of the achievements of the member states all their lives, will have to go a long way in their heads to realise that the great new common market also requires joint efforts and new rules if the process of success is to be achieved everywhere. the stockholm summit is at this crucial juncture. it will decide whether the ambitious lisbon objectives can be put into practice or whether european citizens think that we have been dealing with well-formulated statements, but still with bubbles of rhetoric that cannot have any consequence for political reality. if you want to succeed in stockholm, you have to measure and compare how far we have come on the road to success. above all, he must have the courage to set new, ambitious goals so that we can continue to progress on the road to success. now we are told that the concrete objectives are a difficult thing. of course, it's a difficult thing to have concrete goals, but take a complicated issue like inflation, which depends on a lot of decentralized actors making smart decisions. we have clearly succeeded in launching a very fruitful process towards economic and monetary union, which has produced results which we did not think possible until a few years ago. take things as complicated as interest rate movements or reducing the sovereign debt. we've done all of this with a concerted effort, and all of these are complicated issues that require more than one person. if we have succeeded in this, then we shall also be able to ensure that every pupil in the european union has access to the internet at school. we will be able to create conditions where all pupils not only find this connection but also make decisive progress in their curricula so that they will have the opportunities they need on their way to a european labour market. if we have done all this, we will be able to offer every trader in the european union a clear, comprehensible and simple set of rules that will work in spain just as it does in greece, italy or the federal republic of germany. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we will give the more than 14 million unemployed in the european union a real chance to join this process of success. we still have an unemployment rate of over 8%, and i would like to draw attention to the fact that i am missing in the commission's discussion: that we have a youth unemployment rate twice as high as 8%. this is a big problem, especially when we say today that we want to make demographic change manageable, and we want to rely on the intelligence in the heads and invest in the heads. in concrete terms, much more could be done to eliminate youth unemployment and to invest in the future of europe. but that is precisely why it is right that the commission, in a paper preparing for stockholm, is proposing that we should see very concrete objectives in stockholm, very concrete objectives to raise the employment rate to 67% by 2005 and, in particular, to increase the participation of women in the labour force to 57%. these are the right objectives, and we, as the european parliament, we, as the representatives of the citizens of europe, want to see these objectives documented in the final document of the stockholm summit. we want these images to speak for themselves, so that people in europe can learn about truly comprehensible goals with which they can identify and also realise that their chance lies in the process of europe's success. this will also determine whether there is acceptance of the necessary enlargement of the european union, which we all want, but which we must also send the signal that all those who are still disadvantaged and all those who want to contribute their resources now also have a chance. if we want to do that, we must move forward with courage and overcome the rivalries between the european institutions. the citizens of europe have no sympathy for petty jealousies about the distribution of tasks. it must be clear that the european council is taking its lead and it must be clear that parliament is getting its place, the place that parliament, as the directly elected representative of the european citizens, deserves. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we live in an age of globalisation, of digitalisation, of the knowledge society. our whole society, our economic life, is facing major structural changes. what is familiar disappears, changes. the need for policy to provide a framework is all the greater. the european union has set itself the ambitious goal of becoming the most dynamic economic area in the world by 2010. to do this, you must meet certain requirements and complete homework. the issue of education policy has been raised on several occasions. the resource europe has is knowledge. we must invest in our young people in particular. this is about new technologies like the internet. but it's also about teaching people to think differently. my generation and the generation before it had very little thought about becoming self-employed or entrepreneurial. i think that in future we should introduce this idea to people already in school, so that it becomes a matter of course for them to enter the independent life. but we also need to talk about making labour markets more flexible. i am quite in agreement with mr bullmann when he talks about objectives, but we are seeing today how little there is between objectives and concrete action. we all agree on the objective of flexible working arrangements. but if we look at germany, when we talk about the new company constitution, we see that goals and actions do not always coincide. this makes it all the more difficult to orient policy towards goals alone. we must also make greater efforts in the field of high technology. the internet was mentioned. the cost of access to the network in europe is still too high. the prevalence is still too low compared to other countries in the world. but we also need to be more aggressive and optimistic about new technologies such as biotechnology. but we cannot rely on high technology alone. we also have to think about how we can integrate the new economy with the so-called old economy. i am also against this distinction in general. there is a carpenter in bavaria who already makes 70% of his sales via the internet. if i may ask the experts here, is he part of the old economy or the new economy? i think he's part of the economy. we need to bring them together and make them efficient. but - and i would like to congratulate mr gasòliba i böhm very warmly on his report on deregulation - we must become competitive, that is to say, we must make our own structures competitive. we have had positive experiences in the aviation, telecommunications and energy sectors, and there are other markets in the pipeline, such as transport, gas, postal services and finance. in the end, however, we must aim to ensure that competition only takes place where it is beneficial to the consumer. i would therefore like to make a rather strong plea that not every sector should be deregulated immediately for the sake of a positive spirit of competition. i'll give you an example of water. water is a limited resource. we cannot, of course, give up the european water market, with its high quality standards, to competition in a sectoral or even case-by-case manner overnight. i am here on the subject of limits of competition the limit of general european competition law to local, regional provision. social structures, mature structures, are also a capital of europe. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the proposals put forward by the rapporteur. this means that elements of competition can be introduced into these areas. you can make them more effective and positive. but we must not shake off political responsibility there. it's a difficult riding. we shall be dealing with this subject in the further discussions on liberalisation in this house this year. but i think that competition and subsidiarity, local political responsibility must be combined. i think this is a way of making europe more competitive and yet keeping it together.
- mr president, i have to go. we all share the great and ambitious goal of making europe the most modern and attractive economic area in the world for businesses and workers. as is so often the case, the dispute is not about the goal but about the way to that goal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the truth, of course, is to achieve an intelligent combination of the two. we need the highest efficiency of our economy for the most economically attractive area in the world, and we need at the same time the human orientation, that is, the social market economy. the rapporteur, mr bullmann, therefore provides a variety of definitions of important structural indicators, which are intended to provide guidance on the right course of action. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we therefore support the liberal proposal that the new statistics should not be used to burden small and mediumsized businesses; we must use existing data. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national experts in the field of health and safety at work. the challenge for the future is to do the right thing with the data and the new facts that we have at our disposal. the aim is to encourage competition between the systems and private involvement. at the same time, of course, we do need rules on competition between systems. a look at my own country shows how not to do it at the moment. i am talking about the expansion of participation in germany. in my country, it is said that the economic dynamic is such that more works councils should be set up, including those for virtually every mediumsized enterprise. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the discussions on the future of the community, but that it should be involved in the discussions on the future of the community. in this concept and on this point the red-green government in germany is at the moment going astray, a course which is neither covered nor called for by european analyses. the largest country in europe, germany, is thus proving incapable of meeting the new challenge of being the most attractive economic area in the world. no, at the moment the red/green government is doing this aspect of the european challenge a real disservice. the straw that is handed to the trade unions in germany because of their declining influence is poisoned. many in our group are concerned that this report contains too much detail and analysis. we must take this problem into account. the basic message that europe must survive in a globalised world and europeans must survive in a globalised world is that our economy must remain competitive and must not be restricted by this report. but what we need in addition is not yet in it - that is the next stage of analysis. we also need additional global rules of the game for global competition.
- mr president, i have to go. the new european strategy of lisbon for a competitive, dynamic and knowledge-based europe has proved its worth in 2000 and must therefore be continued in the broad economic policy guidelines, which must become more binding this year than in previous years, with the help of the synthesis report and also the stockholm decisions. finally, unemployment fell, although of course the high level of unemployment remains regrettable. but at least 2.6 million new jobs were created and economic development was confirmed by the good economic data, although the pace has slowed. the strategic approach of mainstreaming the policy areas of economic reform and economic growth, full employment and social inclusion has therefore proven its worth. it must be written down and made more concrete. the us economy, however, continues to hold europe's breath. however, a soft landing seems possible. however, europe must be prepared for a drop in export demand. there is therefore no alternative to structural reforms in the union's goods, services, capital and labour markets. they must lead to an increase in production potential and productivity. mr friedrich, even greater participation can lead to greater motivation of employees and thus to an increase in productivity! (applause from the centre) the european union has made progress in structural reforms; this is underlined even in the imf's recent progress report on the eurozone. this is true for information and communication technologies, but it is also true for labour markets. at the same time, a policy mix needs to be developed to help offset the impact of a possible negative us demand shock on the eu internal market by increasing domestic demand. the bullmann report and the synthesis report, with its ten well-identified areas of action, rightly underline that the european future lies in the reform capacity of the eu member states, in the skills agendas to raise the employment rate, modernise infrastructures, expand the information society and overcome poverty and social exclusion. the instruments of privatisation and deregulation must be used. but new instruments must be used where design and therefore regulation is needed. a clear regulatory framework is of particular importance in all areas, in particular for financial services, which are of high importance for the much needed increase in investment activity in the union. this is in the interest of the european model of the social market economy. it is also important that the method of the open coordination process be continued. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. this has been proved in the establishment of the internal market, this has been proved in the establishment of economic and monetary union. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in wine and spirits, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is a step in the right direction. the swedish presidency has called for democracy and transparency in this area. i'm counting on her to keep that promise!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the european union's heads of state and government have set the goal of developing a truly dynamic, competitive and knowledge-based economy over the next 10 years. we must make a great effort to do this, and it will only be possible if we succeed in mobilizing the forces that are dormant in european enterprises, european research and european educational establishments, in the framework of an open market economy. we're on the right track. i was very encouraged by president prodi's speech yesterday. the introduction of the single currency, the creation of an optimal currency area by improving mobility within the european union, is to follow. we are moving forward in the protection of intellectual property. this is also important if we want to mobilise research. i believe that the european patent is an important step along this road and we must go even faster in liberalizing not only telecommunications but also energy and postal services if we are to get closer to these objectives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the question is, who is responsible for this economic policy? or are the responsibilities different? there are areas which are clearly assigned to the european union. the area of competition, where the union has the strongest competences, the area of monetary stability, which is overseen by the european central bank, and the stability and growth pact are the main instruments. this is the territory of the european union. there are other areas where the responsibility clearly lies with the member states, in taxation, social security systems and training. the only way for europe to contribute is through dialogue. europe has no say in this. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i think it is clear that we in the european union must give priority to those areas where the european union takes decisions. in the other areas where the european union is helping to create dialogue, the collection of this data can only be given second priority. i think that the commission has a duty to do so. where do we need more information in the near future? we need, for example, more up-to-date data on the development of gross national product and its components. we need more data on the development of services in the european union. we know a great deal about production in the european union, but we know very little about the development of services in the european union, and we have very little data at the moment on the current account of euroland, which is an essential basis for decision-making, for example, for the european central bank in its interest rate decisions. the other data are primarily intended to initiate a dialogue. the aim is to lay the foundations for what is known as benchmarking. i must say very clearly that i thought it was disastrous that the data being produced here, once it is there, would be misused for planned economic interventions in the economic life of the european union, and we must also put in place appropriate safeguards against this from the outset. the data we need - and i agree with mr bullmann - must be used for competition between member states. the european union, with its common external borders and open internal borders, free movement of people, goods, services and capital, has not only created competition between companies but also between states. it is a question of providing its citizens with the services that the state is expected to provide on the cheapest and best terms, and i believe that this is what the data mentioned in the bullmann report should be used for. (applause from the centre)
madam president, i would like to express my economic interest and therefore do not take part in this vote.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to table an oral amendment. i have the english text before me, which is to be inserted after the phrase 'their own past archive productions produced or commissioned': 'no later than december 1996'; then it goes on: "by them under their own editorial control". the background is quite simple: the wipo agreement was concluded in december 1996. we want to ensure that only archival productions made before december 1996 are included.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. mr krarup tried to refer back and block this commission proposal, the directive, the report, during the plenary session last night. i am extremely sorry to say this, because the edd group did not participate in the work on the report in advance, either in committee or by means of amendments. that's one thing. secondly, i would like to make it clear that we are not dealing with article 152 - health - but with article 153 - consumer protection. that is why i ask that we vote on this report today and not refer it back. (applause from the centre)
- madam president! - what is it? i'm sorry about that. i tried to avoid that, but perhaps we should stick to the facts and also to our legal system in the european union. in the context of the internal market, we are obliged to pursue harmonizing legislation in the field of consumer protection. we are currently doing just that with this legislation, for which mrs müller is rapporteur. we are harmonizing the legislation on food supplements in the member states and the reason for what we are doing is, of course, also to protect consumers. it is not intended to go beyond the powers of the european parliament, and we are doing what we are doing in many other areas. the court will always agree with us. anyone who would try to postpone it today is trying to take it off the agenda, but with the wrong arguments.
- madam president! - what is it? we have agreed to the report because it is an important instrument for rewarding companies which go further than other companies. emas is supposed to be an incentive. but we are disappointed that bat, or best available technique, is not included in this report and we are also very disappointed that there was no support for it in the large groups, because with best available technique we would have created another incentive for companies to really use the best available technology. however, it is a great success that this will hopefully motivate the companies to adopt emas as well, because emas registration is currently stagnating because of the competitive iso 1400 system. now i hope this decision will help to correct this, because emas is much better than iso, because emas is about recognising the best, whereas iso is about recognising only those who are better than before, but it does not define and indicate what was before. we therefore agreed to this report and we hope that this will increase emas registrations, especially in germany, where emas registration is very widespread, and we hope that this will give companies incentives to actually improve their environmental instruments and that this will also create an incentive to do the best for the environment.
in writing. - (de) the report on the approximation of legislation on food supplements is another step in the right direction in terms of identifying substances in food which do not come from nature. but here again, it's the quality that counts, not the quantity. food supplements in food should be clearly and unreservedly published, officially controlled and added to food only after notification to the competent authorities. the list set out in the annex is appropriate for this purpose. there is no reason why the obligation to provide information should not be introduced quickly and to the same extent for all member states. my group expressly recommends that the white paper on food safety be applied gradually. not only to avoid market distortions, but simply to implement the general concept of the white paper. the obstacles to the intra-community market currently suffered by the necessary legal provisions are only insufficiently implemented by the necessary controls. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the food safety authorities are properly informed. after bse, among other things, we must regain consumer confidence through greater transparency in the food production chain, through safety and through correct and much more honest labelling. i would like to point out that i do not agree with the speech made yesterday by commissioner fischler. the european agricultural policy has been reduced to the lowest common denominator; europe cannot thus escape its responsibility. i firmly believe that the public debate is just beginning.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his good report and the eib for the very open dialogue we have been able to have in the past few months. the debate today shows, or it is pleasing to you, mr president maystadt, that the work of the european central bank is being judged overwhelmingly in a positive way. i think that's extremely important. the european central bank has a particularly important role to play in improving the structures of the european community in the less developed regions. two thirds of their expenditure goes in that direction. i also believe that the areas of the transeuropean networks are of particular importance, particularly transport modes which are oriented towards european perspectives. we see that a common european economic area is emerging here, but that transport conditions very often still follow the old boundaries and priorities of past centuries. i believe that a common european market, a home market, an optimal currency area, also requires a corresponding infrastructure and also a transport infrastructure. all the activities of the central bank in this field are of particular importance. i also believe that the work of the european central bank is of great importance in many other areas, particularly where small and mediumsized enterprises are concerned. in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly if they are innovative ventures that also take risks, it is often not enough to provide loans, but of particular importance is the risk capital provided. in this area, the eib has taken important initiatives in recent years, which i also consider particularly welcome.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am glad to see the president-in-office of the council back in the chamber. with all due respect to you, i would have wished that, in view of the equal opportunities that sweden has repeatedly promoted, secretary of state ekström had been here. it was yesterday in the joint meeting of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on employment and social affairs. on the bullmann report: the lisbon council decided to make the eu the most competitive economic power in the world by 2010. did you get too much in your mouth? the signs are good, however, with four million new jobs in four years, mainly in higher-skilled and ict jobs. new dynamics with more flexible labour markets have emerged, but not all are keeping pace. the differences between the regions are large: on the one hand, high employment rates, freedom of action for businesses, but in other regions, increasing unemployment, with the consequence that people are forced to leave their homes for economic reasons. we want economic and social cohesion in the community, active labour market policies. they are reflected in the four pillars of the luxembourg process. the priority is clear: support for innovative smes. we have the means to shape the future and create jobs, but we need to remove bureaucratic, legal and fiscal barriers and facilitate access to risk capital. the implementation of the guidelines in the naps can increase the employment rate in the eu to 70%. quantum leaps in education and training are needed. priority is given to the upgrading of vocational training, the implementation of our life learning concept, better conditions for cross-border activities, the promotion of mobility through joint training of young people and the recognition of acquired qualifications throughout europe. the hughes procedure has been used to synthesise the findings of the bullmann report in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the cocilovo report in the committee on employment and social affairs. despite differing assessments of the details, this final report deserves our support.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the lisbon summit defined full employment as the overriding policy objective. i fully agree with the report by mr bullmann, on which i shall now speak, that the employment guidelines, which were first formulated at the luxembourg employment conference in 1997, are the basis for this. i congratulate the rapporteur on his very good work. it is right that in future more qualitative indicators should be defined, taking into account, for example, the diversity of the workplace, minimum rights of workers to participate in its design or environmentally friendly technologies. the committee on employment and social affairs rightly calls for this method to be used to combat youth unemployment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission's proposals are not only a means of improving the quality of life of the people of europe, but also a means of ensuring that the quality of life of the citizens of europe is not undermined. as the epp, we will not be chasing some naive flower dream. the transition to a service and knowledge society is progressing. the commission has also been active in the development of the european social model, which has been the subject of a number of studies. that is what you said this morning, mr bullmann. we often make speeches in which we express our intentions in employment policy. they are beautifully expressed in many papers, in european guidelines, in national action plans, everywhere. but paper is patient. the key now is to put it into practice. the epp will assess the contribution of the spring summit to the objective of achieving the practical implementation of the proposals made. we do not need a literature summit, and i am convinced that stockholm will not be a literature summit either, because what is needed now is not proclamation but action!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to make two points. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report is technical in nature and the socialist group also feels that it is right that it has been separated from our political statement. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i think you're making a big deal out of this report, which is completely unnecessary. on the contrary, you are probably also endangering the rapid adjustment of the law. the position we have, and which we have always taken in our committee over the last six years and beyond, is, of course, to secure as quickly and as fully as possible the right to free movement, the rights of frontier workers and also the rights of third-country nationals with their families in europe. that is why i find the council's opinion a little too weak. but our motion for a resolution, which i shall come to later, which we are putting forward today together with the left in this house, naturally also contains a clear and, i think, urgent request to the council to put the directives, the regulation, the revision of the regulation on the table by the end of the year at the latest. i am convinced from what i have heard that the belgian presidency will do the same. i therefore regret your zig-zag course, mrs ria, because if you look at some of the motions, or if we look at your motions, we will not find what you have just said. why, for example, did you remove social security from amendment no 1 to point (a)? we all want social security to remain a part of the system and not just economic interests to be at the forefront. in amendment no 4 to paragraph 1 you have omitted the third country nationals. this is a major problem and it has always been very important to us that it not only concerns eu citizens but also workers and citizens from other countries who are legally resident in our country. so we expect you to include this group of people. you can be sure that this problem will come to us at the latest with enlargement - and probably earlier - when the glaring shortage of skilled workers in all 15 member states becomes apparent. we cannot only include the workers in the legal status, but we must of course also include the workers' families. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i thought, frankly, i was speaking after the commissioner, and i was just on my way here. i just wanted to tell you that i have read this text with great interest. i believe that the european union should not underestimate this issue. the point is that we, the european union, live on this eurasian continent and a large part of humanity is crammed into asia. it is of strategic importance to us what relationship this europe has with its asian partners. macau is of paramount importance here because it is a place where a european cultural tradition has been mixed with an asian one and where there has been a lot of thought about human rights and freedom. here, despite its relatively small size, macau has an extraordinary bridge function. i therefore believe that we europeans must not neglect macao and that we must also recognize that we are not entirely innocent of the fate of many people living there in the past and possibly in the future. we have therefore an obligation which goes far beyond what portugal has gratefully undertaken. i am glad that mr cushnahan and i are speaking here in this debate, because it is clear that this is not just a legacy of the former portuguese colonial empire, but a vital european concern. we europeans must simply be clear that asia is our most important strategic partner and that anything which brings european ideas closer to asian ideas and vice versa, which strengthens the ideas of democracy and the rule of law on the asian continent, is not only in the interest of the people there, it is in the fundamental interest of the european union. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it has already been said that our group will support the council's proposal. mexico is an important country. it is the largest spanish-speaking country. the agreement is therefore of great political importance. but i would also like to stress that it is also very important for us to agree to this agreement because it is - and i am referring in particular to the commissioner responsible for foreign policy - a proof of the european union's common foreign policy. i am not in agreement with my british colleague who would prefer that the member states should conclude such agreements individually. i think it is a great step forward that the european union is taking up this issue together. we attach great importance to the agreement with mexico. it is the first of a series of agreements which we are also negotiating with mercosur and chile. the implementation of the mexico agreement therefore has a pilot function. as far as trade policy is concerned, it is intended to improve our trade policy situation in mexico. the european trade policy in mexico has been reduced to a ridiculously small level. this needs to be improved, and i believe it is also in mexico's interest that it not only depends on trade with the united states, but that it has a balanced external trade in which europe also plays a role. i think that's a cliché. the agreement is therefore in our interest as well as in mexico's. but by agreeing to it, we should also honor that mexico is changing. the election of president fox has brought about the first change of power since the mexican revolution. mexico thus joins the ranks of those countries where a democratic change of power becomes normal. there is also hope that the conflict in the southern state of chiapas will be settled peacefully. mexico has opened up, not only to the united states, but it is also ready to open up to europe. i would therefore very much welcome it if, for example, the newly elected mexican president would soon visit europe - perhaps speaking here in parliament - and if european heads of state would also visit mexico. finally, the report by mr lucas. it is clear that we do not vote on the grounds of the report, as is always the case. i am not going to go into the details of the situation, but i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its work on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. by the way, that goes both ways. we want to be free to say what we don't like elsewhere, and we encourage our friends to say what they don't like. the best example of this is the united states: we have a conflict with the united states, which is sometimes very critical - and vice versa, by the way - but this has not changed our cooperation and our mutual trust.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the agreement with mexico is a milestone in relations with the countries of latin america. it has a wider scope than any previous agreement the european union has concluded with a third country. i myself have always been very critical of this agreement with mexico, but i have also always shown solidarity with it, because we have always had to keep in mind not only the interests of the european union, as some people in this house have probably done, but also the interests of mexico and its population, which is predominantly poor. the agreement will therefore only be a milestone if it improves the living conditions of the vast majority of mexicans. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the european union's human rights policy. the fox government will have to be measured by this, not just by economic success. the services sector and direct investment in particular will be the subject of particular attention in the future, since mexico cannot be considered as an extension of the workbench; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment, and has recently introduced a new approach to the environment. but it is also up to us here in the european parliament and the mexican government to work with the mexican people to ensure that they can get the most out of it. we are also concerned about the future role of the joint council in the further development of the agreement and the involvement of the parliaments of mexico and the european union. and since there is nothing that cannot be improved, i hope that mexico and the european union, as equal partners, will eliminate the discrepancies and errors that undoubtedly still exist in the treaty. i say this as vice-chairman of the delegation for relations with central america and mexico. i am also in favour of this agreement, and if these points, many of which mrs lucas has mentioned, are fulfilled, then nothing should stand in the way of its success, and it would really be a milestone in the history of the european union's treaties with a country in latin america.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in august 2000, the french presidency proposed two initiatives to combat criminal gangs and to take preventive measures. but before that, many refugees died as victims of criminal gangs. unfortunately, they still die. every week we read at least two reports on this sad matter. that is why the european union must act now. the directive defining the definition of aid for illegal entry and residence defines a legal framework to prevent illegal entry through criminal smuggling gangs. the second initiative is a council framework decision to strengthen the criminal law framework to combat the facilitation of illegal entry and residence in order to prevent the exploitation of refugees. i have to admit that both initiatives could actually be offered as one. they could be combined in a single proposal on the same legal basis in the first pillar. unfortunately, i was unable to convince the french ministry of the interior. i am glad that my amendments have been supported by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. we now have not two restrictive proposals, but two proposals which can deal with the different target groups differently. while the criminal gangs of smugglers must be tackled, the ngos or the churches and other similar organizations that offer humanitarian aid to the persecuted people are not equated with the criminals. we cannot ignore the fact that today, too, tens of thousands of people are forced to flee from various forms of persecution and war. is it a criminal act to help a persecuted person in this situation, i ask you, ladies and gentlemen? to be honest, i'm glad that there are brave people who help the persecuted. it was therefore very important to define aid and honest helpers precisely. the text of the french initiative did not distinguish between individual and organised aid, nor between commercial and moral aid. for this reason, a correction was urgently needed. i do not want to overlook the fact that human trafficking is a lucrative business for criminals today. but it would be a fatal mistake to believe that this problem can be solved only by restrictive measures. the police and judicial measures must be accompanied by a common european policy on asylum and migration. it is the only way to avoid the sad events of dover in the future. it would have been easy to reject the french government's proposals, which i criticised, as long as there was no common policy on asylum and migration, which we are calling for. it would be the easiest thing for us to do, to simply declare this subject closed in five minutes. but that would be irresponsible, given the fate of the victims. i am therefore pleased that the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and myself have succeeded in developing these initiatives in my report so that they can meet both humanitarian and criminal requirements. i very much regret that the ppe is not prepared to support this particular report. i am very pleased about this and thank the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party for its useful supplementary motions. i hope that my report will show the group of the party of european socialists, the group of the party of european liberals and democrats, the group of the greens/european free alliance and the confederal group of the european united left/nordic green left that the european parliament will make the council groundbreaking proposals for action that is both state-sponsored and humane on such a difficult issue. (applause from the centre)
mr president, today a man is on trial in the federal republic of germany for smuggling east germans into west germany. and he's rightly on trial. not because he was a smuggler, but because he ratted out the east germans to the state security. i think that it should also be possible today to prosecute people who report refugees or smugglers to the police. why would you do that? both the commission proposal and the report acknowledge that illegal entry can lead to the granting of an asylum application. this is an admission - though probably very involuntary - that it is no longer possible for most people to enter the eu legally, and it is also an involuntary confirmation of the unhcr's criticism of the eu and its isolation policy towards refugees. that is why the promised impunity does not help refugees who are accepted as asylum seekers, because they have to inform on the people who helped them to apply for asylum in the first place. so, the separation of commercial and humanitarian aid is useless, because the blockade is being pushed further and further, because the cost of aid is getting more and more expensive. if we cannot decide to dismantle the eu fortress, we must at least reject this report and continue to promote the provision of humanitarian and commercial aid to refugees.
- mr president, i have to go. i think the report is good and i congratulate the rapporteur. i also think the term 'research room' is a good word. i think this is a good initiative by the commission. i should like to say a few words about the remarks made by mr alyssandrakis, who gave me the key to the following remarks. if greece spent more money on research, it would also be less dependent on brussels. (applause from the centre) this is the problem of many countries in the european union. they've withdrawn their research funding for projects large and small. european research cannot fill this gap. if we want to have a european research area, we need two players, the eu and the member states, otherwise we will be in a dilemma that we cannot cope with. i also see a great challenge in the management of these research projects, especially as we enlarge the european union. this cannot be managed from brussels in the long term. we should therefore try to develop procedures in this area in cooperation with the budgetary control and the court of auditors, for example, so that the administrative burden is reduced. research cannot be carried out with the mind of accountants. research involves risks - and financial risks, too. what matters is what comes out. the result is decisive, not necessarily the settlement. i would much rather have a successful project in which you may have lost money than a complete accounting of a project in which nothing comes out at all in the end. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. it does not, however, make it easier to implement in practice. the basis for future research policy is concentration, i.e. setting priorities, flexibility and coordination. this must necessarily be accompanied by democratic decisions taken in a multi-faceted parliament and an equally multi-faceted council. i must say, commissioner, that i would like to congratulate you in advance on your success. we'll try to help you with that. the european research area is certainly a first step in the right direction and will also be part of the sixth framework programme. but as soon as it is a question of making this concrete, questions naturally arise. the devil's not just in the details. in other words, they want to focus, we all want to prioritize. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. have a good time. the criteria have never been formulated properly, and we have both been using the word 'european added value' for 10 years, mr caudron, have we not? you and i have not defined it yet, or have not been able to define it. we have already talked a lot about flexibility, but now we come to the third point, coordination. the european research area does indeed involve coordination between the union and national research levels; i see partisan differences there. how much do we want to coordinate centrally, how much do we want to plan and direct centrally, how much should come from below in the framework of subsidiarity? it will be an exciting debate, and it will be partisan-driven, but we are happy to take part in it. the rapporteur congratulates me on this and i hope we will continue to work together. (applause from the centre)
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr korakas, and the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development for the report and the thorough discussion of the commission's proposal. the aid per hectare for cotton - and this is something to bear in mind when discussing the whole matter - is three to four times as high as for other crops. the commission considers that this particular effort by the community, and in particular this financial effort, can be justified only by the economic and, in particular, social importance of cotton in certain regions of the community. however, in recent years, the area under cultivation has increased considerably, and yields per hectare have also increased strongly. this is a new risk for the household and for the environment, because we must not forget that cotton is a very intensive crop, requiring a high level of fertiliser and pesticides. the commission's proposal is therefore aimed mainly at reducing the minimum price we calculate more than before in the event of an excessive increase in production. the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture and rural development, if they were to be implemented, would lead to a substantial increase in the budget for the cotton sector. this means that the incentives to produce are not decreasing but increasing, and that environmental requirements are also being eroded. to make it clear what we're talking about here: the committee's amendments would add up to an additional cost of some eur 650 million per year, even assuming a constant income and an average market price. this would mean an increase of 85% in the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in short, amendments nos 1, 3, 4, 9 to 13 aim to increase prices by 10% and the maximum guaranteed quantity by 50%. in addition to the resulting cost explosion, this could mean an increase in production of 60%, i.e. by 900 000 tonnes, with the consequences i have already described. amendments nos 5 and 14 propose an indexation of the minimum price depending on the quality of the unseasoned cotton, to be approved by the member states if the trade associations cannot reach an agreement. we have had some experience with such ideas in the past. because it has become clear that it is simply not possible to create and manage such a system centrally, because there are simply too many factors that affect the quality of raw cotton. we can therefore only maintain that this question is still decided between the parties concerned, that is to say between the purchasers of the raw cotton and the suppliers of the raw cotton. we do, however, propose the introduction of a criterion, namely conformity with the price level index on the world market for cotton fibres. this will provide a framework which will facilitate the negotiation of future contracts. amendments nos 7, 8, 16 to 19 concern the drawing up of an official statute for producer groups and their activities to be supported by community aid. this is particularly true of environmental measures. i should like to draw your attention to the fact that such a system already exists in the form of eec regulation no 389/1982. the creation of producer groups has been financed by the community for ten years. as in other sectors, they have to use the resources provided for in the market organization and environmental aid to cover their operating costs. the amendments cannot be accepted because they would lead to two different arrangements for producer organizations and two different types of financing. furthermore, taking into account the increase in production that would result from the required increase in the maximum guaranteed quantity, this alone could result in costs of the order of eur 80 million per year. as regards the environment, amendments nos 6, 15 and 20 call for a wide range of possibilities for member states to amend the rules of the common organization of the market not only for environmental reasons but also and above all for economic and social reasons. this is unacceptable because it completely undermines the environmental regulations. so we are left with amendment no 2, which is basically aimed at correcting a textual error in the spanish text. in reality, however, there is no problem of translation and no mistake, because the term precio de objetivo refers to the target price and not the real market price. i very much regret that the commission cannot accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection in this case, but i believe i have explained the reasons in detail.
- thank you, commissioner fischler. - i'll see you in a few. i note that not all the problems in the cotton sector have been solved yet. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0035/2001) by mrs izquierdo rojo, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation extending for a maximum period of one year the financing of certain quality and marketing improvement plans approved under title iia of regulation (eec) no 1035/72.
- madam rapporteur, you have again exceeded your speaking time by one minute. we have a little time before us, which is why i haven't been too harsh. we should, however, be on time. when he becomes a commissioner, madam rapporteur, an official can do two things at once!
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. first of all, i would like to thank you, mrs izquierdo rojo, for your report, and also all the others for the effort you have put into the 22 amendments. before i go into these, let me say a few words about the basic principles of the proposal. the current scheme for nuts has been in force for 10 years and the first quality schemes expired in 2000. during this 10-year period, 92 producer organisations received community funding totalling eur 750 million to improve production and marketing in the shell fruit sector. there have also been some successful restructuring and competitiveness has increased. as a result, they are generally in a stronger position than in the past to secure sales markets and to compete with other third country suppliers. a further eur 250 million is earmarked for contracts still in progress and for measures still in progress. the commission considers that the ten-year programme has in principle been sufficient to achieve the objective set ten years ago, namely to create a stable basis for economically viable producer organizations. however, the council has asked the commission to propose that payments to shellfish producers be continued in the 2001 financial year. the commission proposal was drawn up on this basis. your requests show that you are not going far enough with this proposal. the amendments, some of which refer to the european parliament's resolutions of june and october last year, concern three main areas. the first group of amendments, namely nos 14, 15, 17 and 20, aims to maintain the support measures for improving quality and marketing beyond 2001 and to consider all expenditure on work carried out by the end of 2002 as eligible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the second group of amendments, namely 8 and 18, aims to maintain the special aid for hazelnuts until the end of 2002. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the following should be noted: firstly, the scope of this proposal has been limited to the financing of programmes under the 2001 budget. it should not be extended to the 2002 financial year, which will again generate additional costs of eur 82 million. secondly, specific support for hazelnuts is not included. in total, this amendment would create additional budgetary expenditure of some eur 110 million, in addition to the eur 24 million proposed. amendment no 16, which refers to chestnuts, does not fall within the scope of the regulation under discussion. the third group of amendments, namely 6, 7, 12, 13, 21 and 22, seek to secure the future of the shellfish sector in the long term by other support measures. amendments nos 9 and 19 propose that support under the common agricultural policy and regulation 2200/96 should continue. in the context of this third group, let me say how the commission sees the future of the sector and its promotion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new varieties of fruit and vegetables. these producers have made good use of the money we have made available over the last 10 years and a number of them can certainly benefit from the extension now in force. on the other hand, there are unfortunately also producers and producer organizations who have to work in extremely difficult conditions, for example in disadvantaged areas, often in remote mountainous regions, and who also have no irrigation available. there are in fact thousands of families here who are still dependent on this production in part or in full. because of these natural disadvantages and the overall disadvantages of location that these producers have, they will always have a problem with being able to withstand imports from third countries. we therefore think it is much more sensible - and this is indeed an objective we set ourselves in 1999 - to support this second group of producers, who are concerned above all with a social issue, in the context of rural development. we have therefore built this second pillar of the agricultural policy, and it should be used in this context. the principle of subsidiarity means that responsibility for this is transferred to the member states. the member states must include such measures in their programmes and give them the appropriate priority, and then they can decide on such development projects themselves.
- thank you very much, commissioner fischler. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 11.47 a.m. and resumed at 12.00 p.m.)
mr president, you were right to ask just now: where is the council? he should be able to give an opinion. i think it is impossible that the council is not here and we should protest to the council! (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i think it is also important that the rapporteur briefly comments on this. i regret that we have not been able to act responsibly in this parliament. but now mr watson is right and we should support mr watson. i ask every member to support me, otherwise we will make a fool of ourselves as a parliament!
- mr president, i was the shadow rapporteur for my group and we did indeed have a very good cooperation. but one of our very essential points in article 4 has been rejected, so that i now have to recommend to my group that, contrary to the previous agreement, we should say no to this report. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i do not wish to comment on the matter at this time. but it is not for any member of this house to discriminate against another member of this house by making such a remark. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what the epp has rejected is a nuance. it is not a substantive part of the resolution. i am very sorry that this house, which unanimously wants to secure more rights for this parliament, does not have the competence and the courage to make a joint contribution to stockholm! (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, i would just like to know who is assigned to the commission this afternoon and when he is expected to be here in the house.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my dear olivier dupuis, i would like to thank you for your reply. you've been talking about the wrong thing. we are talking today about southern serbia and kosovo. we are not talking about serbia and the current politics in serbia itself. i agree with a lot of what you said. and believe me, the colleagues who were in belgrade made their position clear on the conditions: for us there is no money without the conditions being met! i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would like to come to the point of today. the question now is, what is the situation in kosovo? i agree with mr lagendijk. if we do not know how things are going in kosovo soon, the problems in kosovo will accumulate. the problem is that kfor is now the target of attack by serbs and albanians, although it is actually there to protect both. the problem is that mr hækkerup will have to call elections very soon. for that he must know what powers those elected bodies have. but we need these bodies so that there are partners for the serbian side to talk to. now we have the subject of southern serbia. i think kfor did not do everything it could have done. where do these new extremists get their weapons? they've gone from the kla to the new kla. i think that kfor, with its 50,000 men in kosovo, should be able to keep order in this valley of presevo. i urge them to do so so that we do not lose our credibility in this corner! i also believe, of course, that what the mayor of presevo said in belgrade is true: the population wants to stay in serbia if the albanians in this region are finally regarded as people of equal quality. they want to be included in everything that a citizen has in this country. i think what the government's new plan is now is good. it's going the right way, and we should support it. i am a little saddened that mr kostunica said that this should not be done under eu supervision. why not? - why not? we're good hosts. we can, and i hope we will be allowed to, help the serbs and albanians to live together in peace.
- mr president, i have to go. first of all, i would like to say to mr haarder that it is a shame that the absent members are not here - to put it very clearly. we cannot introduce the five-day wednesday because some people like to have six weeks off and only work one day. other employees might like that, too. i think that what is happening here is a disgrace to this parliament and that you are also contributing to it, mr haarder, by now wanting to demolish thursday after friday, i think that is a scandal. now to the subject itself. i would like to make it quite clear that we as europeans have a great responsibility for kosovo, and the item on the agenda for this urgent debate was originally kosovo and not southern serbia - that is also on the agenda. i am not entirely happy with the resolution and i would also like to say that my name is on it by mistake. i never signed it. i would also ask that this be corrected, because i believe, and the speeches have made this clear - particularly the impressive speech by mrs pack - that it is important to stabilise the situation in kosovo, because unless the situation in kosovo is stabilised, there will be no stability in the neighbouring regions, including southern serbia, including serbia. that is why it is urgently necessary, and mr lagendijk is quite right, to take the decisive step of calling for elections in kosovo. until we have democratically legitimized bodies for kosovo that can be partners with the democratically legitimized serbs, there will be no peace settlement in this region, and we are guilty of serious guilt if we continue to postpone these elections for all sorts of reasons, because we are destabilizing mr rugova's position and extremist forces, whose background is more than unclear, can exploit the situation to turn the albanians' domestic politics to their own mills. as i said, by not acting we are destabilising mr rugova, who embodies the hope of a peaceful solution, and we should not just point fingers at others and say: 'this is not democratic and that is not democratic', but we should clearly recognise that we are violating our central responsibility. in conclusion, i would like to say to the serbian president: if he does not accept eu mediation on this sensitive issue, then i wonder why he is accepting money from the european union. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. freedom of conscience, belief and religion, freedom of expression and freedom of assembly are the most basic rights that can and must be granted to a human being in our world. they are part of our democracies, and we expect them to be accepted everywhere as basic elements of people's lives, so that there can be a life of true human dignity. for a time, it looked as if there was going to be a positive movement in the people's republic of china as well. unfortunately, this has not been the case recently and it seems that the development is not only coming to a standstill but is even going backwards. i am very sorry, for example, that although the people's republic of china has signed important documents such as the international covenant on civil and political rights and the international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights, the ratification and implementation processes of both covenants are still incomplete. that's too bad! we need movement. i therefore appeal to the people's republic of china, on behalf of my group, to respect the civil liberties of the people, as we in our democracies also strive to do. i would like to say to my dear colleague dupuis, by the way, that the falun gong say of themselves that they are not a religious institution. we should also respect what institutions say about themselves.
mr president, first of all the title of the resolution should be "freedom of expression" rather than "freedom of religion" because, as was mentioned earlier, falun gong is not a religion but rather a practice comparable to yoga in the west. secondly, the repression against falun gong is totally absurd. can you imagine repression against all the people who ever follow yoga classes in europe? the chinese government goes so far as to imprison cyber-dissidents meaning people who create or manage websites whose content does not please the government like mr huan qi who is being tried now. finally, you should stop supporting the eu/china human rights dialogue as long as it does not yield any result. its only concrete outcome so far has been to prevent a resolution condemning china in geneva.
- mr president, i have to go. what did karl marx say? "religion is the sighing of the oppressed creature, the mind of a heartless world as it is the spirit of mindless states. it is the opium of the people". marxism-leninism has run its course. but other ideologies still exist. china is a long way from allowing freedom of speech or even religion for tibetans, mongols, christian churches or muslim communities. the tibetans are being persecuted. pictures of the dalai lama are not allowed to be shown. long prison terms are in store. i would remind you of the initiative taken by the european parliament's intergroup on tibet to nominate nun ngawang sangdrol, who has been imprisoned for nine years, for this year's sakharov prize. the 11-year-old panchen lama, the second highest authority of tibetan buddhism, was kidnapped and has been sealed off from the outside world ever since. it is not even expected to be received by the un high commissioner for human rights, mary robinson. the epp-ed group is waiting for china, as a future wto member and global player, to finally become aware of its responsibility to ratify and implement international agreements on civil and political rights as well as those on economic, social and cultural rights. we call on the eu member states to seize the opportunity at the human rights commission meeting in geneva. make the suppression of religious freedom, the massive human rights violations in china, a priority issue! and let us remember that in the charter of fundamental rights - one of the few successes of the nice summit - freedom of religion, conscience, opinion and information is enshrined in chapter two! i also hope that the european commission will show initiative. i'm not going to let you go.
- mr president, i have to go. some countries in the world are flouting the fundamental rules of the international community of values. article 18 of the united nations declaration of human rights states: "everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion". since 1991, pakistan has been governed by islamic sharia law. the commands and prohibitions of the koran are the supreme law. the blasphemy law is seriously disturbing the peaceful coexistence between muslims and christians, as well as other religious minorities. freedom of expression and of the press have been severely restricted. once again, journalists - this time seven - were arrested on the dubious pretext of distributing anti-islamic literature. it seems that once again, a public example is to be set, and worse, they face the death penalty. we call on the military government of musharaf to restore the independence of the judiciary and finally allow for impeccable judicial proceedings. the blasphemy law must be repealed; it is being interpreted in an absolutely arbitrary way and it opens the door to manipulation and denunciation. the death penalty is rejected by the vast majority not only in europe but also in an increasing number of asian countries. it must be abolished. the epp group calls on the european commission to urgently reconsider all treaties with pakistan and, if necessary, to revise them. we need cooperation agreements with human rights organizations and regional ngos. the first objective of our initiatives must be to find a way back to a democratic order of freedom in pakistan. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. since the outbreak of the first chechen war in 1994, this is the 13th resolution to be adopted on this subject by the european parliament. i would like to see our resolution today understood as an urgent appeal to the russian government to put an end to the human rights violations in chechnya and to take steps to de-escalate the conflict, but also as an encouragement to the russian and chechen people, who are working on both sides to bring this conflict to an end peacefully. as you know, our colleagues in the council of europe have paid tribute to the efforts of the russian representatives - and there are some - to improve human rights in chechnya by restoring their right to vote. this was done, however, against the request of a human rights organization. i think that this is a very ambiguous sign, and i expect that the troika and commissioner patten, who are in moscow at the moment, will address the russian government on this matter and ask them to put an end to this worrying situation on the russian side. the analysis of the situation in chechnya by human rights watch is very worrying. but i still believe that those who are serious about finding a non-military solution to the conflict in chechnya will win out on the russian side. you have to be clear about the situation. the chechen people, whose population has already been reduced by half, must now be brought to peace and peace must be established in chechnya. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. the european parliament adopted a very critical resolution last december, declaring that it would not remain silent on the real and ongoing violations of human rights, especially in the last two years of the second chechen war. they've never stopped since. we will not allow the council and the commission to mention in passing the murders and torture which continue to take place in the north caucasus camps and police stations between the main course and dessert when they go to moscow as a troika. commissioner patten is there now and i ask the commission: what sanctions has he threatened if the russian government continues to do nothing to find a peaceful solution, if it is not prepared to hold talks, is not prepared to bring to justice those responsible for human rights violations? we have the foundations, we have the pka, we have the strategy, and all of them are calling for the recognition of human rights as a condition for joint cooperation. i am not saying that we should not be able to do this, but i would like to say that we should not be able to do this.
- mr president, i cannot speak about chechnya here without thinking back to more than ten years ago when the baltic states were fighting for their freedom. many colleagues, like mr gahler and others, have been working for freedom in the baltic states. i was in the baltic states at the time. it was a chechen, the then soviet general dudaev, who later became the first chechen president, who refused to crush the baltic freedom movement. the commission has already done so in estonia and latvia. in lithuania, as we know, there have unfortunately been very bloody attacks by the omon militia. the chechen people have really made their contribution to ensuring that european countries which will soon be in the european union do not have to suffer the bloodshed which some of them had planned for them. this example, as well as the fact that chechnya is part of the council of europe and its human rights convention, clearly shows us that chechnya is not a distant problem but a european problem. so it's a shame that an unholy alliance of deception and self-deception has formed. the fraud is partly the result of official government propaganda in moscow. the self-deception is happening to us. they refuse to register what is actually happening in chechnya. it is not a matter of individual attacks, but of systematic genocide. mrs schroedter has rightly pointed out that half the population has been killed or displaced. this is a systematic genocide of the chechen people for energy and geostrategic interests. we must therefore apply strong pressure and make it clear to the russians that the partnership agreement is based on human rights. if human rights are not respected, there can be no functioning partnership. we must make it quite clear to our russian partners that this is a conditio sine qua non for us and that they must finally negotiate with the elected representatives of the chechen people. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. the worst natural disaster since the founding of the indian union has shaken this largest democracy in the world deeply, and not only it. we remember the images from the state of gujarat: hundreds of thousands of dead, many hundreds of thousands in completely destroyed villages that had to be abandoned and are now homeless, destitute and jobless. i am impressed by the scale of the rapid international action of the international community and the donations of individuals. in a world that seems to be increasingly cold, there are examples of humanity and solidarity! special forces, including from europe, were on the scene to search for survivors among the rubble. the help is on. medical equipment, tons of food, clothing, blankets, and facilities for producing clean drinking water, which also help prevent outbreaks of typhus, cholera, and hepatitis. tent cities are the first to emerge, though they are only temporary shelters against the freezing cold of the night. all of this is a comfort to the victims and their families, many of whom live here in the european union. the commission has gratefully made available eur 13 million. the chances are that the echo humanitarian aid office, spread over six international aid organisations, will reach those affected directly. the world bank and the asian development bank will also be involved in helping to make reconstruction a success. the damage to buildings alone is over 3 billion euros. and the indians themselves? they have set up an all-party committee on active disaster management. the authorities have acted quickly, despite all the aftershocks. within days, the power was back on. cities had a chance because the streets and squares were cleared. respect to all our friends in india!
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by addressing the question of why we have asked this question in relation to the decisions in ireland. i think it is important to note that we have reached a new stage in the development of the european union and the integration of the economies of the european union. twelve member states now have a common market with a common currency, so in the true sense a home market. it is urgent that economic policy in this european home market be guided by common principles. we are therefore pleased that the european commission and the ecofin council of ministers have taken action here. it is the first time that a decision has been taken in this way in relation to one of these member states. it is about the stability of the european currency. you know that my group has always given the very highest priority to the stability of the european currency in all the debates in this house. we will continue to do so. we believe that a stable currency is one of the essential foundations of a social market economy. we need this also in relation to the european currency. i would like to leave no doubt that this priority will continue to be our priority in the future. i would like to ask, however, whether the european commission and the members of ecofin have chosen the right objective in this first decision of this kind. ireland is without doubt one of the european union's model countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. ireland is running a surplus. other countries still have a huge total debt of more than 100 per cent. ireland is in the process of reducing it to below 40%, so it is also a model for other member states of the european union. other countries are struggling with unemployment. ireland has made exemplary progress in terms of unemployment and job creation. other member states are struggling with the fact that growth is slowing down. ireland is achieving growth rates that other member states of the european union can only dream of. however, we must recognize that the irish economy is overheated by this strong growth, that it creates risks, that it also creates disadvantages for irish citizens. for example, if i look at the rents and land prices in dublin and compare them with those in frankfurt, it is quite clear that these price developments are also having a negative impact on the citizens of ireland. so it is certainly necessary that something be done here. the question is, who has to do something? is it the european union that must intervene, or is it a matter that should be and can be settled by ireland, by the irish government, by the irish parliament itself? i am therefore asking who will be responsible for european economic policy in the future? we must work to make this responsibility clear. we must be clear about who is responsible for what, so that we can praise them when they succeed and say, when they fail, which can actually happen, that a particular country, a particular institution has made a mistake. this is a clear division of labour in the european union. the european union is clearly responsible for competition, competition between the european union's businesses. commissioner monti has shown time and again that the european commission takes this task very seriously. and the european commission is responsible for monetary stability - on the one hand, the strong european central bank, on the other, the finance ministers, who have to watch over the stability and growth pact. competition and monetary stability are thus on the side of the european union. on the other hand, the responsibility for taxation is undoubtedly still the responsibility of the member states of the european union. the same applies to social security systems and to training. we must then ask the question: what about monetary stability, or is this monetary stability in the eurozone being threatened by what is happening in ireland? let's think about another situation. let us imagine that in germany the inflation rate is 6 or 7%. germany has a third of the gross national product of euroland. this would immediately cause the average inflation rate in the european union to rise so much that the european central bank would have to act and thus dampen the economy. ireland, on the other hand, is a small economy. ireland's gdp is slightly higher than that of west london. the overheating in ireland has no impact at european level and consequently there is no need for action at the level of the european central bank. ireland itself no longer has the possibility, as it did in the past, of contributing to a moderation by raising interest rates by the irish central bank. so that means that ireland itself must bear the responsibility, including the responsibility to the irish people, that this overheating is being reduced in one way or another, but i would leave that decision to the irish. i would not raise this to the level of the european union. the commission has already taken a decision on the transfer of eur 401 million to ireland. this is supplemented by additional funding of eur 726 million. this is an additional amount of money that has been pumped into the irish economy. i would like to ask whether there has been a discussion between commissioner solbes and commissioner barnier to resolve this apparent contradiction. in other words, what is happening in germany, what is happening in france, what is happening in italy, gives much more cause for concern about the stability of the euro. i would like to wish the european commission the same courage when it comes to tackling these large countries. (the president cut the speaker off)
- mr president, i have to go. i just wanted to say, briefly, that there was a suggestion that we start early on monday and finish early on thursday. i have to say, this is absurd, because that would mean that many of us would have to arrive on sunday so that others would have friday off. until now, in europe, sunday was considered holy, not friday.
- mr president, i hate to answer, but after what mr medina ortega said, i have to answer. mr president, what you are doing here is very transparent. i would remind you that there is an exchange of letters between the chairman of your group and the president of the european parliament, and you know this, of course. you also know that there are rules when you're dealing with immunity in the relevant committee, and that means that the relevant authorities in the country where you're accusing someone of a certain behavior must have given that information. this was also the case in 1990, when your current group chairman was president of parliament. i would ask you to take note that we are not holding debates here that are a preparation for the election campaign in italy. because that's your move. (applause from the ppe group) after your group and the leading figures of your party have allowed themselves to be involved in this scandal against austria, we will not allow you to campaign for the european parliament again. i would like to make it quite clear, mr president, that the colleague and president of the european parliament whom you are criticizing in this way has acted quite correctly, and she has also described this in her letter to the president of the socialist group. believe me, mr medina ortega, if you want to campaign here, you will have the campaign. but you can also count on us not to allow you to make your indefensible positions clear here alone. (applause from the ppe group)
the rapporteur. mr president, it has taken a little longer, but we have had to discuss these important matters before the unimportant ones. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are now dealing with a supplementary and amending budget which was presented by the commission on 31 january and which has already been adopted by the council at first reading - the first one this year. this supplementary and amending budget has several aspects. the amendment to the comment on budget line b7-541 is to enable the agency for reconstruction in the balkans to receive administrative funding for its work in montenegro. the euro-dollar exchange rate is to be adjusted in accordance with the budgetary discipline regulation: while the 2001 budget is based on a rate of 1 euro to 0.91 dollar, the commission must adjust it from 1 euro to 0.87 dollar. this will then result in the virtual savings of 245 million euros. the commission is also proposing to set aside eur 60 million from the reserve to provide the grants for the agreed bse tests. and now we come to what we are all really interested in, as we have seen from the talks and debates of the last week: the additional €971 million to be made available to deal at least in part with the impact of the bse crisis. the sum of eur 971 million is divided as follows: eur 700 million for the purchase and destruction of bovine animals over 30 months of age, eur 238 million for the purchase for storage, and an additional eur 33 million for tests on bovine animals over 30 months of age intended for human consumption. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am therefore in favour of it, although i can understand the colleagues who want to reject this supplementary and amending budget outright. my first instinct was to say no, too. since i became a member of the european parliament, i have had to defend the common agricultural policy at home. it's not that easy. we spend almost half our budget on our agricultural policy, almost a fifth of it to stimulate beef production. but now that the beef market has collapsed, we are being asked to spend almost a billion euros to destroy the very cattle that were raised with a lot of money because they are not for sale. this is really very difficult to make clear to the people out there, the taxpayers and the consumers, if at all. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's just the famous drop on the hot rock. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these mechanisms date back to a time when most food was in short supply. but we've long since put that time behind us. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to help the poorest countries in the world. the intensification of production leads to environmental pollution and the marginalisation of less productive sites. the system is not even defendable from a social point of view, because it has only led to the growth of large companies and the death of small family farms, because there is not enough to live on. in total, 80% of eaggf funds go to less than 20% of farms. we have to get out of this system. we can no longer just doctor around the symptoms of the system. we have to cure. the systemic nature of the problem only leads to new difficulties. let us use the present crisis to reform our common agricultural policy from the bottom up. let us use it to reform the way we do things, with the following objectives: to maintain a sufficient number of farmers to preserve the environment and the cultural landscape; recognition of two important functions of farmers, namely the production of high quality food and the environmental performance related to rural development. and of course, what we have always wanted as the european parliament: the promotion of the countryside. however, this also means promoting other forms of economic activity, not just the agricultural sector. let us consider the supplementary and amending budget as the last measure of the old agricultural policy, which must be because there is no other instrument available in the short term. but the next financial measure must be one in which we can see clearly the contours of a changed agricultural policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the sooner we take the first proper steps to deal with them, the better. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it's perfectly normal. only then they migrate to european stomachs and not to the incinerators. but i think it's a bit far-fetched to be ethical about it now. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. yes, my goodness, we are so fond of our christian western roots, may i ask you to remember that emperor herod had the male human newborns killed. people, not animals. with all the love and understanding for animal welfare, let's leave the church in the village. there is a difference between man and beast. please remember that. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. my group will vote in favour of the amending and supplementary budget as a matter of necessity and in the absence of viable alternatives, because it is precisely in this crisis situation that we must act quickly. we do so also in the knowledge that over the years bse has been accompanied - and the mistakes of the past are still haunting us - to a large extent by governmental failure. that is why we have a common responsibility to deal with this crisis. we shall also be voting in favour of the 70/30 financing arrangement because we want to adopt the budget as quickly as possible, although there are certainly voices who would like to have this subject discussed more intensively for future occasions. i would also add that in these difficult times we should do everything we can to act seriously and not to spiral further into panic, because i do not want to have one supplementary budget after another. i would remind everyone once again that we are only in the first third of the implementation of the much-vaunted agenda 2000 and that it is not possible to celebrate it as a success, as a european business basis for the period up to 2006, and then, at the first appropriate opportunity, to make a full stop, accompanied by a leap of faith. that's not very believable. emergency situations call for emergency measures, but if you want to change too much at once in such a time, you can quickly go overboard in europe when the wind is against you. it takes a strong hand, but also a keen sense of taste, to handle things seriously. the aim is to develop the common agricultural policy, the european model of consumer protection and agriculture for the future, also in the light of enlargement to the east and the next round of world trade, also on the basis of what the member states have committed to internationally in the context of agenda 21, conservation of resources, sustainability, but also in the balance between the use of nature on the one hand and the application of technology and economics on the other. mr president, i believe that we are in a situation today where not only the european parliament has to deal with this issue, but also, and this is the call of our group, the heads of state and government at their forthcoming summit in stockholm to give honest answers, because the crisis is serious enough. the consumer's uncertainty must be addressed. the member states must finally do their homework faster than in the past. we have examples on many pages where the commission was first pressed, then finally acted, but the member states acted too late. this has to end. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the situation in the community. that is no longer acceptable, which is partly what is happening. the heads of state or government must find a solution. the answer must be given if we really want to manage the crisis. if we do not do this, we will face the fact that in two years' time half of the cattle farms in europe will be gone. that is why we say here: the heads of state and government must also react and change direction.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. this year we have the first supplementary budget, a little earlier than last year. last year we had a slightly more pleasant duty to fulfil for the member states. we were able to transfer 3.2 billion back to them. this year we are going to have to carry out an action that will not excite anyone in a field which has a massive and decisive influence on european policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not only irritating, it is infuriating to be forced to participate in a procedure to resolve a situation that is hardly comprehensible to a person of sound mind. i don't want to talk about it again, but it's unbelievable that you have to burn food that's made with a lot of money. we are not just dealing with a financial crisis. i am speaking as an economist, but i cannot deal with the financial side alone, because we are also dealing with a crisis of confidence. people watching us can't understand that we're just accepting this without really demanding consequences. as much as i appreciate mr böge's calm approach - and he is certainly a good adviser on how to approach this matter - no normal, thinking and feeling person can really calmly go to the scene and just say yes to this thing. we must take action here that goes beyond imagination. i can understand everyone who says: let's reject this thing. or they say, "let's put thumbscrews on the minister of agriculture". i can understand them all because it's hard to understand what's going on here. but what we have to do is actually bring about a reversal. this reorientation cannot happen overnight, however. we cannot, in the first two months of this year, completely redefine agricultural policy and make it the basis of today's decision. i can't do that. we cannot stop meat production overnight, because the calves are already inside the mother cows. pretending that you can just flip a switch and everything is different is an illusion. that too requires the honesty to say. but it must also be made very clear that if we agree today, that is not a free hand, neither for the commission nor for the council. we shall be examining very closely in the coming weeks and months what you propose. we will not have a simple 'going on like this'. i am making this very clear here. there must be no actionism, no frantic actions at the moment, but there can be no 'this way' either, but you must discuss with us the proposals that ensure sustainable development. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget. it's not working. everything that happens in the future will have dramatic consequences, not only for us but also for you, who are making proposals or deciding in the council. i am sure that you will have our approval once again, but it will be much more difficult in the future if there is no good accompanying reasoning and change of the policies in place.
- mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the majority of my group will vote for the supplementary budget tomorrow, but we find it difficult to vote for the destruction of two million cattle in europe, and i regret to say that i disagree with mrs haug. the destruction of cattle is really an ethical problem and cannot be treated as a market support measure. it is the bitter consequence of a wrong agricultural policy: first the support and promotion of overproduction, then the destruction of overproduction. we have seen this with the butter mountain, we are seeing this with the milk lakes, and we are seeing this with the beef problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it was the european parliament which, since 1990, has repeatedly pointed out the problems, repeatedly called on the council to change course and which took the bse crisis seriously before it reached its present peak. i therefore think it is very important that in this decision we make it clear to the commission and the council that we finally need the involvement of parliament in this area, that we need the strengthening of parliament and that we finally have to come to an agricultural reform that makes this word a reality. we've had a major loss of confidence all over the place. all those who are campaigning at the moment - for example in baden-württemberg, where the elections are due - are experiencing that demand is being made, that the european institutions are being questioned at the moment. if we want to correct this loss of trust, if we want to rebuild trust, then we need fundamental reform. it is not enough to simply work through the crisis pragmatically and wait for the next one to break out. we need to change course. we must move away from overproduction, from promoting overproduction and from promoting the destruction of overproduction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we know about the cases that keep popping up. we know of some cases in the butter and milk sectors. we urgently need a change of direction, and i want to make it clear that with today's debate and tomorrow's vote we are signalling that it is time for a different agricultural policy and that it is time to restructure the budget so that parliament has more say in all compulsory expenditure.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i think we should distinguish three things when we discuss the commission's supplementary budget today. firstly, what measures do we have to take in the short term to stabilize the beef market to some extent? secondly, what are we to do in the medium term if we have to discuss the commissioner's seven-point plan in this house? thirdly, what are we doing in the long term? we shall also be discussing this in this house in the context of the review of the market organisations in 2002. we should stick to that, too. the urgent need now is to take action for farmers throughout europe so that the massive fall in beef prices does not threaten the livelihoods of the people any more than they already do. that is the task of this supplementary budget, and everything else must be dealt with calmly and calmly. let's not lie to ourselves. the beef market was in equilibrium between supply and demand until last autumn, and we must be honest about that. there are no milk lakes and no butter mountains, and i will make this very clear, madam rühle: it was the government you are supporting that decided, just a year and a half or two years ago, to adopt what you now call the wrong system, namely agenda 2000. we must say this clearly, and then discuss it within your own party - including mrs schreyer, the budget commissioner who proposes it, and mrs künast, the german minister for agriculture who supports it - and you are pretending here that you have nothing to do with the whole affair! i'm not gonna let that go. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the situation in the community. i am prepared to go along with that, but i have not yet heard a reasonable alternative, and we must be honest about that. mr graefe zu baringdorf, the same applies to you, because you are also a member of this party. we must be honest, and if a strategy is being pursued which puts small farms in the lurch - and that is what i heard from the german side at the agriculture council on monday evening - then i really say: that is not a strategy. when i hear that the german chancellor has recently said that this is a question of big and small, and today the german minister for consumer protection announces that large farms must be given the same support and that is why she does not support a ceiling on the animal premium, i ask myself: where are we really going? we must take all the necessary measures in the short term to achieve stability. the supplementary budget gives the right answers and we must discuss the medium and longterm activities in a calm and balanced way. only then will we find the right solutions in the end.
- mr president, commissioner schreyer, i have to tell you that i am very pleased with the way you have handled this matter. the fact of the supplementary budget itself and the 971 million euro is not the problem. it's just business as usual, and we shouldn't be overwhelmed by the amount. it is a question of what it is used for and why it was necessary. i am saying that if the european parliament had had the right to vote on agenda 2000, the decision in berlin would have been different. we would then have, for example, grassland support instead of maize, we would have suspension of intervention, all of which has been proposed by the commission and parliament. we would have the link to labour costs, we would have the 90s limit, which is linked to labour costs. we would have adopted all these measures which are now back on the agenda, and then, mr böge, we would have what we could call agenda 2000 and progress. now, under your influence, if i include copa and the wider field of christian democrats, these very reforms have been prevented. the problem is that we are now faced with this question again, and we are spending money on a policy that has gone in the wrong direction. if we take mr fischler's proposals, the problem is not slaughter but destruction. we in europe are thus introduced into the world's picture with massacres and exterminations. we cannot sustain this for long from the cultural point of view and from the cultural standpoint of europe. it would certainly be sensible, mrs haug, to come here to a slaughter of young cattle and calves. it is not a question of a herod bonus, but of ensuring that these calves, now born, do not become heavy bulls again, but instead go to the market as quality meat, after appropriate testing and removal of risk material. that was mrs schreyer's suggestion. the proposal did not come from mr fischler. i'm sorry about that. i hope that we will be able to do the same in the treatment of these seven points. so it depends on what we spend money on. we have, as the socialist budget spokesman has said, sent money back more often in recent years. the problem is not that, but whether there is enough money left for a reorientation of agricultural policy. i see the following danger: if we pay for the special measures which now arise from this crisis from the normal budget, then when we want a tax reform we will lack this money, because then these emergency measures will no longer be necessary, but the money will be gone. i therefore think it is right that the member states and the eu should also bear the costs. i would also like to see those responsible for this crisis, who are in the private sector and not in politics, contribute to a fund which will also compensate the victims, that is, the farmers and those affected in the human sector, as in the united kingdom ... (the president cut the speaker off)
- mr president, the european union has also produced this crisis together. this is why the eu must also manage this crisis together. but when i say eu, i do not mean the commission or the council or parliament, but i mean essentially our member states, who are the bearers of the eu. so that i am not misunderstood, no one can point fingers at the other and pretend that they have nothing to do with the whole story. the european agricultural policy, as it is, with all its weaknesses and faults, has been created and made what it is today by all the member states and by different political colours. that's why we have to change it together. this does not change the fact that we are currently in a situation where we, the managers of this crisis, still have to manage the crisis with the old rules of the game on the old playing field. there's no getting around it. we have not yet had new rules, we have not yet had a reformed agricultural policy, even though we are urging it. mr ferber is right, of course, in his division into short, medium and longterm. that's right, you're right. but if you are asked for money and are asked to give your consent to the expenditure for managing the crisis, you have not only the right but also the duty to remind the public of the need for reform. we have a timetable for 2006, with a review in 2002. we now know that the review ends with the need for a fundamental reform of agricultural policy. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the budget is properly implemented. we shall have to remind you of that very soon.
- mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i have two questions. the current bse control measures are being overshadowed by the dangerous animal disease mks. i remember the 1950s, when entire villages were closed off to prevent the spread of the disease. how are the strict regulations on animal movements being complied with, commissioner? i think that those who still do not comply with the legislation after bse should be given a strong lesson by other means. how secure is the position in the european community with regard to mandatory labelling? you said that eradication and movement control are your primary objectives right now. how are you prepared for strategic vaccination of animals, which is certainly europe-wide and should not contribute to the spread of the disease? are you well prepared?
chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development. - mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. looks like another garbage dump. in this case, an airport, which then triggered the plague. firstly, is it not reasonable to support the state controls by introducing a requirement for companies to provide evidence of their activities in the waste sector? secondly, will you ensure that there is compensation for the affected farms if the disease fund in the countries is not sufficient? thirdly, do we not need to be a little more careful about the slaughter programme now, because perhaps this disease is forcing a slaughter programme that goes beyond what we have thought here? at least you should be careful here. i do not wish to, commissioner, but the danger is real.
- mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. do you have enough vaccine for this particular type in case the worst comes to the worst? a second point: in a german newspaper with many large colourful pictures and a large circulation, it is now on the front page that mcs, or foot-and-mouth disease, is transmissible to humans. what do you think?
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking all the members for their support of my report on the authorization directive. the commission has already made a number of very good amendments which i am happy to incorporate in my report. i would also like to thank the commission and the respective council presidencies for the very constructive cooperation they have had in recent weeks and months. i now come to the licensing directive and my report. what is the current state of play with regard to authorisation procedures for the operation of communications services and networks in the european union? the fifth and sixth commission reports on the implementation of the telecommunications reform package and the reports of the european telecommunications office have shown that member states have developed their authorisation regimes in completely different ways. this is particularly difficult for operators offering cross-border telecommunications services. in practice, therefore, a telecommunications activity cannot in principle be started until a decision has been taken in advance by an authority, i.e. until an individual authorization has been granted. the types of individual authorization vary widely from one member state to another, with some requiring extensive information and others requiring no information at all. as a result, the length of the authorisation procedures varies from one member state to another, the content of the authorisations differs and the level of the fees varies greatly. the aim and purpose of the authorization directive presented by the commission is to remedy this. the directive aims to provide for more harmonised and less burdensome rules on market access for electronic communications services and networks in the community. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment. this is already the practice in some member states. it is therefore good and right that the commission should propose to introduce this throughout europe. two sentences on the substance of the proposal for a directive. in future, network operators or providers of communications services will no longer have to obtain individual authorisations, i.e. they will no longer have to ask for permission from an authority before offering their services. they only have to comply with the requirements of general authorizations. at the same time, the conditions that may be imposed on service providers will be reduced and harmonised at european level. the proposal also provides that service providers will no longer be required to provide comprehensive information. in future, national regulatory authorities may only be required to provide information which is objectively necessary for the authorities to verify compliance with the conditions for authorisation. the change in authorisation regimes will ensure that providers can offer their telecommunications services and networks quickly and unbureaucratically across europe. i think this is certainly a milestone towards a dynamic and competitive market for electronic communications in the community. let me address a problem that is currently plaguing operators in practice. there are always great difficulties in the allocation of rights of way. here too, the rules in the member states differ greatly in terms of procurement procedures, fees and conditions. this, of course, makes it more difficult to build infrastructure in an unnecessary way. the installation of telecommunications cables of a certain length is already a considerable effort. you have to apply for a lot of rights of way from cities, municipalities, counties. you have to get building permits. they often need the approval of hundreds of landowners before they can start operating. the directive therefore aims at least to oblige member states to publish a list of fees, procedures and conditions relating to the award of rights of way. this will at least give operators an overview of the legal situation, which can save them a lot of time when applying for rights of way. finally, another critical issue is the issue of administrative fees. the level of administrative fees must be more closely aligned with the overall costs of administering and controlling general authorisations. the directive provides for a disclosure obligation for member states to make costs transparent. the proposal for a directive provides for the administrative fees to be apportioned among the various undertakings providing a service under a general authorization. the commission's proposal is that the administrative fees should not be distributed according to the turnover of the undertaking concerned, but should be distributed proportionately among the applicants. smaller companies with an annual turnover of up to eur 10 million should be fully exempted from these charges in order to facilitate market access for smes. so much for the introduction to my report. i would also like to draw attention to an important aspect of mr paasilinna's report. as mr paasilinna has already pointed out, the commission's proposal provides that national regulatory authorities will no longer be able to take all major regulatory decisions in the telecommunications sector on their own in future. instead, they are to produce only drafts, which the commission will examine and, if necessary, approve or reject within one month. in the event of a negative decision, the commission may submit a decision to the regulatory authorities concerned within a further two months. the commission will also decide whether and on which frequencies broadcasting content must be transmitted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i therefore expressly oppose this proposal, which is also contained in amendment no 33 by the committee on industry, trade, research and energy and which was adopted by a large majority in the committee at that time. i personally believe that the national authorities are closer to the market than the commission and therefore better placed to decide in individual cases how and to what extent to further liberalise the telecommunications markets. the liberalization of telecommunications markets in particular is a success story. today, consumers have a choice of many operators, and telephone costs have fallen rapidly. in particular, at this stage of the procedure, there is no reason to take the scepter from the successful national regulators and to transfer the decision-making powers to the commission. this would only make decision-making processes cumbersome and slow. i have now tabled the amendment again, which will also be voted on in parliament tomorrow. that is amendment no 78. i ask for your support for this request and thank you for your attention.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture, youth, education, media and sport. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the so-called telecommunications package, the main elements of which parliament must now decide, is an ambitious undertaking which should be supported in principle. it is quite reasonable to want to make the existing legal framework of 28 different legal texts more uniform and clearer. the fact that a horizontal approach has been adopted is consistent and to be welcomed. in its opinions on the various reports, the committee on culture and the media has unanimously called for all regulation of electronic communications networks and services to ensure that access to the infrastructure does not create conditions which may ultimately have a negative impact on the diversity of content. in other words, it must be ensured that offers of general interest are sufficiently disseminated. the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport also sees the need for harmonisation measures in line with the internal market, but in a much narrower sense than the commission, which wants to expand its powers in this area. after years of arduous debate, there is now agreement among the institutions that different legal frameworks are needed for infrastructure and content. but there is also agreement that there are links between transport modes and content disseminated through them, and that these need to be adequately recognised and taken into account in the interests of cultural diversity and journalistically relevant contributions to democratic opinion-making. the market can do many things, but not everything. in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the directive on the protection of the consumer are not compatible with the internal market. it must be clear that the european level has no right to interfere in national and regional broadcasting. the bottom line is therefore that coordination comes before harmonization.
- mr president, commissioner, rapporteur and other rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen! the greens are generally in favour of these three reports. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the telecommunications sector is not left to the discretion of the member states. this liberalisation of state enterprises, whether in full or in part, has already been completed throughout the eu. the question was no longer whether liberalisation would take place, but merely how. the position of the european greens on liberalisation is clear. while we believe that the state has not always provided the best solution for its citizens, we fear that privatization will undermine public services and we are opposed to a digital divide in society. there is a lot of talk about technological neutrality. on a purely legal level, that may be the case. a technology is never socially neutral. we want development for the people, which is good for the people, which benefits all and does not harm many. that is why we have set up the greatest possible monopoly in the telecommunications sector. this may not prevent us from having only three big telecom giants in the whole eu in ten years' time. but it can prevent it, because if at least the national regulatory authorities are strengthened and the commission also plays an arbitrator role, then - and only then - is monopoly control within the realm of possibility. we have also worked to ensure that new companies can offer services on fair terms to compete with the former state-owned companies. this is a chance for more people to have access to the internet, even if we do not believe in the invisible hand or in the logic of the market. where does this discourse lead? the aim is to regulate an economic sector which can give people more independence and self-determination. we want to help ensure that all people who want to have access to these technologies can also take advantage of this opportunity. and we want people to be able to communicate digitally, to be able to organize, in short, to be able to unfold, globally. we need fair access to that. not just in private homes, but in public. in libraries, in schools, in public places. this communication must be free. it must be possible anonymously and it must be possible, if at all possible, equally. that is why we also say "no" to the many attempts to restrict, censor or criminalize the internet. although this is not specifically stated in the directives here, censorship and the desire of the surveillance authorities to control people more and more seem to be becoming more and more the essence of any attempt to design the digital space. that is why it must be mentioned here that we, the greens, are in favour of open access for all. we want open digital communication, and we don't want any more surveillance, we don't want any surveillance! that is the only reason why we have been involved in the design of privatisation, which we do not want to see as privatisation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. if you are late in the list of speakers, there is always the danger of repetition. i'm going to try to avoid that. but i would like to emphasize two or three points. i should also like to thank you for the interesting, exciting and collegial cooperation in parliament across the political groups. there are certainly objective arguments that transcend political boundaries. the interesting discussions with the various representatives of large and small companies throughout europe were also very interesting for me personally and i think that although not everyone will be satisfied, we are on the right track to become more sustainable. my belief in the past few years has always been that we must succeed in creating regulations that are streamlined and clustered and that allow us to react quickly to technological leaps in the future. in this respect, my statement remains that less regulation can be better regulation. i think by focusing on these guidelines that we're talking about today, we've done that. i also believe that sooner or later, or rather soon, we will succeed in moving to general competition law. at some point, of course, i'll have to pour a little water into the wine. i personally and many colleagues fully agree with amendment no 78 by mrs niebler and will support it. as i said, this is a support which also goes a little across the groups, because i am convinced that this amendment is certainly not against european harmonization. i think that the way in which this article is drafted is more time-consuming and bureaucratic, and i feel that this is an interference with regional competences, particularly in the field of public service broadcasting, as my colleague karin junker has already mentioned. i am therefore convinced that we should also prevent the must-carry rule from being abolished gradually.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank my colleagues for the reports they have submitted, and the commission as well. i think that cooperation has produced a good compromise, which, although not all our colleagues can support in all respects, has nevertheless shown that in many places we are able to reach a result in the context of a good substantive discussion, which in fact also shows in many places development possibilities that have gone beyond the commission's concept. the critical question throughout has always been whether to support mrs niebler's amendment. my colleague mr van velzen is currently engaged in a debate, but he has raised the point and advocated it. i shall also be in favour of supporting it, since it deals with the critical issue of how the question of harmonization should be organized at european level. the commission has rightly pointed out that we need more harmonisation in this area and more uniform structures. no question. we've been discussing this for years. i have always been a passionate advocate of a single european regulatory authority in the past, but the model has died. we have chosen another option, and i think many regulatory bodies are showing that they are independent, self-sufficient and autonomous, and that the state is also quite capable of developing competitive models here that are very, very good. of course, there are other models which do not correspond to the desired european level, no question, and something must be done about this. the critical question is how to construct the relationship between the european and national levels, and i would prefer a simpler model, which i myself proposed with my colleague norbert glante, or one which corresponds to the model of mrs niebler. i shall therefore be pleading tomorrow to support mrs niebler's motion. once again, we should think about this, and i am especially grateful to my colleagues malcolm harbour and nicholas clegg, who have indicated that they are now also reflecting on whether the options they have supported are the right ones. i think that is very, very wise. and we have plenty of time to think about it until the second reading, and perhaps we can find a common approach by then.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 7.55 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. all the member states of the european union have a policy on women and the family. the form in which they do so depends largely on the constitutions of the countries and their political bodies. despite some progress in the treatment of women in paid employment and in the implementation of equality barriers across europe, gender inequality persists. the main issues are presented correctly in the report. this is the situation with regard to self-employment by women, this is the gender pay gap, this is the difference in employment and unpaid work. the economic ups and downs have serious consequences for the individual living conditions of families, the burden of which falls heavily on women. the idea is that by march 8th, a person's achievements will be more important than their gender. domestic violence and stereotypes, not to mention medieval representations of women's contribution to society, should finally be a thing of the past. i want a europe with a culture where the dignity of men and women, of foreigners and immigrants is a gain and not an economic burden. the report estimates that this is not the best thing to do. nevertheless, the number of immigrants is increasing, which suggests that it is really time to create the best conditions in the european union, otherwise conflicts could escalate. the report should cover these tasks more extensively. i would remind you of the forthcoming enlargement to the east, in which many women bring with them other traditions and other cultures which must be served and not confined to one area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i agree with the criticisms in the report and with the proposals made by mr gemelli. but i also share the doubts about whether we will be able to halve the number of poor people by 2015. the neoliberal policies of the northern countries, which have increased the wealth of the rich and kept the poor in the poverty trap, are also a factor in development policy. the new motto "everything but guns" sounds good, but it's not quite true. first, the arms arsenals of the industrialized countries, including germany, are still so full that war can and is being waged with the existing weapons. secondly, it is hypocritical for the european union to preach the opening up of markets as a panacea, but still refuse to accept that the 48 poorest countries will be able to export all their products to the union duty free from the year 2000. thirdly, i think it is cynical for rich countries - including germany - to exploit the intellectual potential of developing countries and thus deprive a self-sustaining upswing of an important foundation. development policy is not just altruism, it is self-interested policy. it is striking that resource areas are defined as areas of interest, and areas of interest can also be secured by military means, according to the new nato strategy and the operational criteria of the future eu intervention army. the european union is a new europe for the 21st century, and that means a radical change in development policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have the pleasure of conveying a thank you this morning. i had the opportunity last week in prague to meet our colleague from the czech parliament, mr ivan pilip. mr. pilip spent 26 days in prison in cuba for having contact with dissidents. mr pilip has now returned to the czech republic in good health and thanks the president of parliament and his colleagues for their efforts to secure his release. he said that the czech public had also been very pleased that the european parliament had stood up for him in friendship with the czech state and his czech colleague. he is convinced that our efforts have been instrumental in his release. i would like to convey this to you, knowing that i had very little personal involvement in this process, and i am all the more pleased to be able to convey to you the thanks of my colleague.
the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to comment and try to answer some of the questions that have been raised during the opening part of this debate. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. i think it is extremely important that we have a common understanding of the purpose of the international community's action against iraq. the aim is to bring iraq up to the standards and commitments laid down in particular in resolution 687, which is the major basic resolution governing the international community's relations with iraq. that's our demands for iraq. for example, those demands do not include a change of government in iraq - that is a matter for the iraqi people - but resolution 687 clearly states what is required for the sanctions against iraq to be lifted. this is the basis of our whole discussion. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. he mentions the question of an international committee of inquiry, of currency flows, etc. in the context of the reform of the un security council, there is an intensive discussion on the effectiveness of the sanctions instrument. the union is actively involved in this discussion. these are difficult questions. this includes questions such as whether time-limited sanctions should be introduced, so that from the outset when sanctions are introduced it is decided when and under what conditions they will be lifted. it is also a question of whether, as mentioned in this debate, we should have so-called smart sanctions - that is, trying to make sanctions more specific and more clearly targeted at those whom we want to hit with the sanctions in order to minimise the suffering of the civilian population. i think it is important that the union takes an active part in that discussion. i also think it is important that this parliament contributes to this important discussion on how we can make the application of international law, of international law, more active in the world. langendijk is raising the question of bringing saddam hussein to an international court. of course, that may seem an appealing thought in and of itself, considering what that man has done. but then again, i think it is important that all action against iraq be taken within the framework of the un resolutions. i believe that in the long run any action outside this would be detrimental to the collective efforts of all of us. these efforts are aimed at - and i perceive there to be total unanimity in this house - ensuring that we have an iraq which can be reintegrated into the international community. unfortunately, this is not possible under the present regime. i note what langendijk says about the european parliament's resolutions from last autumn. they're important. they are also an important guide for the council's future action. i look forward to a further exchange of views on how we can strengthen international law also in relation to iraq.
chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have the impression that this bombardment of military targets in iraq has once again shown the extent of the european union's and in particular the council of ministers' silence in the field of foreign and security policy. we must also recognize that the policy of taking action only after the united nations security council has made a decision to do so would mean that dictatorships such as china would have to give their consent in each case to implement and enforce un resolutions against a regime such as saddam hussein's, thereby creating inaction against dictators such as hussein. the council of ministers has already made a number of recommendations to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to take them into account. i think we have to make a distinction here. we agree that saddam hussein is a mass murderer who is pursuing a new programme of rearmament in the field of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons, that it is in the interests of the security of the union and the world to prevent this, that this is also within the framework of un resolutions and that at the same time the protection of minorities in southern or northern iraq is also in the interests of the resolutions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the aircraft is not compromised. however, there is a great debate in the region that can lead to saddam hussein, who is the great violator of international law there, ultimately becoming the hero of the arab world. for this reason, action must take account of this fact, and therefore there must be a process of balancing what can be done for the benefit of the civilian population, for the survival of people, for the provision of medical care and food on the one hand, and for the fight against this regime on the other. for this reason, it is welcome that colin powell has now proposed that there should be modified types of sanctions. i think we should work constructively and actively on this definition. the aim must be to use all the instruments available to destabilise the regime of saddam hussein. but at the same time we should also differentiate so that this is not done unilaterally at the expense of the innocent people of the country. for this reason, and for humanitarian reasons, we should try to change the measures, but at the same time use them as an instrument so that the public relations campaign that is taking place here is also conducted in accordance with our interests in the enforcement of international law and democracy and human rights in this region. i think we must adopt this policy so that the people of the region, against the threat of saddam hussein, remain in the camp of the free world and saddam hussein does not become a hero of the arab world. i think that, therefore, a strong military response against saddam's military installations and the prevention of rearmament is the right course, but at the same time it must give the people a chance to survive.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission is not the two rapporteurs have already said the essential points. i should like to thank them very much for the detailed presentation they have given, firstly in this house and secondly in their reports. the association agreements with chile and, of course, with mercosur are of great importance to the european union. we therefore support the commission in its negotiations and of course we also regret that the european parliament is not yet formally involved in the definition of the negotiating mandate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, we want to promote rather than damage regional economic and trade relations between chile and its neighbours. otherwise, we should hurry. that is what mr salafranca sánchez-neyra said. we do not want to wait until the wto round is over. i would remind you that the new american administration has already announced that it will make the american free trade area, the alca, a priority in its external relations. the question immediately arises: do we want to leave latin america to the united states, in a sort of division of labour - the united states takes care of latin america, europe then takes care of eastern europe - or do we want to be present in latin america? i believe that it would not be in our interest, or in the interest of the latinos, for the world to be divided in this way. i believe that the end result should be a system which promotes the integration of the latin american continent and which also takes account of the historically developed relations between europe and latin america. i would also like to say, in general terms, that we should urge the commission, the council and parliament to give latin america a greater prominence in our external relations and in our debates. unfortunately, and i must say this again at this point, we no longer have at our disposal an important instrument: irela, the european-latin american institute, which in the past has been a great help, and sometimes in delicate matters. i'm afraid that's dead. the importance of this institute in latin america, by the way, i would like to illustrate with an example. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. this shows the high profile we have had in our relations with latin america in the past. i would ask the commission to look for a solution with parliament so that we can find a sensible successor and so that we have an instrument which can give the appropriate profile to these mature and important relations with latin america.
the rapporteur. the commission is not it is this amendment which is the subject of the motion for a resolution and it is also amendments nos 4 and 5 which are the subject of the motion for a resolution. as rapporteur-general, i have to inform you that the motions have already been put before the committee and that they were rejected by the committee by a tie vote. the fact that i say this shows you what my personal opinion is. i only wanted to tell the house.
i have to say, madam president, i refer to the speech made by my colleague, mr manuel medina ortega, at the last plenary session and i would like to make the following request to you. since that intervention by my colleague, mr medina ortega, on the request for the waiver of the immunity of our colleagues mr berlusconi and mr dell'utri, there have been a number of press statements and a number of rumours circulating in this house. we in the socialist group think it would be sensible if you, madam president, put an end to these rumours by - although i know, madam president, that you are not obliged to do so - accepting the request i would like to make, namely to allow me to put to you three short, very specific questions on this process, the answers to which we as the house hope will provide some clarification. i believe that this is in the interests of the house itself and also in the interests of your administration, madam president! i would therefore be very grateful if you - i repeat, you are not obliged to do so - would perhaps, because of the political urgency of the matter, grant my request.
i have to say, madam president, this is the intervention of mr medina ortega, pursuant to rule 6 (1) of the rules of procedure, on the request by the spanish supreme court to waive the immunity of mr berlusconi and mr dell'utri.
madam president, may i take it that you will call me again when the work schedule is being drawn up?
i have to say, madam president, i didn't mean to say anything. i was present when we said at the conference of presidents that we did not want a debate this time because we had already discussed foot-and-mouth disease last time. but after mr corbett has now, as it were, rejected the right of the house, but said that it was not appropriate for us to decide here, i would like to say on behalf of my group that, as things have developed, we are all unanimous in the opinion that we should have this debate. we do not want to wait for the commission to kindly offer us this debate, but we ask the commission to come here to the plenary to discuss it with us. the same appeal is also addressed to the council, and i am even more determined than mr swoboda: we should not ask the council politely, but we should expect the council to give its opinion, so that we can represent the interests of citizens and consumers together in the european parliament! (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i would like to return to my obviously misplaced question to you: i asked earlier - and i will repeat it - whether you would be prepared, in view of the increasingly widespread debate on the procedure for the request for waiver of the immunity of mr berlusconi and mr dell'utri, to answer three brief questions i would like to put to you. madam president, i repeat that you are certainly not obliged to answer these questions, but i think you will see from the questions that the questions and the possible answers can remove any ambiguities that obviously exist. so, as i said in my question to you, may i ask you the questions, and would you answer them?
i have to say, madam president, i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the matter, and i am sure that the council will be able to give its opinion on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the matter. the first question i would like to ask you is: why, in the case of formal doubts, did you not consult the legal service of this house or inform the house of these doubts? the normal procedure, i believe, would be to consult the legal service of this house, which is at your disposal as president, in cases of doubt. secondly, you have chosen to consult the spanish embassy or the spanish representation to the european union on your legal doubts. you obviously handed the case back to that agency. the second question i have to ask you is why, for seven months, you have not given any indication that your request will be answered. if i understand the timing correctly, you gave the procedure to the permanent representation in august 2000. they have obviously hesitated to provide a reply until mid-february. that's a series of months! why did you do that and what do you think are the reasons for the delay? the third question is: in the light of the present situation, would you be prepared to involve the committee responsible in this house - that is, the legal affairs committee - in questions of immunity and to give it the lead, or would you continue to retain the responsibility for this in your own name? thank you very much, and i look forward to your reply.
i have to say, madam president, i do not know who mr schulz was speaking for. i have only a good memory of the fact that the vice-chairman of the socialist group, mrs napoletano, said at the brussels meeting on 28 february that this was not a debate for the european parliament's plenary. i therefore say, madam president, first of all, and i do so on behalf of the whole group of the group of the european people's party and the european democrats: you have acted perfectly correctly in this matter and you have the confidence of our group! that's the first point. (applause from the right) secondly, mr schulz, there has been an exchange of letters between the chairman of your group and the president of the european parliament. i assume that your contacts with your group leader are such that you are aware of this exchange of letters. the commission has also intervened in brussels, and the president has therefore given the necessary answers. in essence, two months before the italian elections, you are trying to carry out a campaign maneuver in the european parliament to help your socialist friends in italy! (applause from the right) mr schulz, in austria you and your party friends were already a bad loser, and now the same game is about to start in italy. if you want to do that, you will have us as your most determined opponents, even here in the european parliament! (applause from the right) i would like to say, mr schulz, and i would like to make this quite clear, that you would like to ask your ally in rome, mr cossuta, a former stalinist who has always supported this government in rome, the same questions that you are asking the president in this inquisitorial fashion. i would ask you to ask him the same questions that you are asking here today to the detriment of our party friends in italy. mr schulz, i also have information that there are very different opinions on this question in your group. it is possible and natural that this should be the case, but i say to you that if you do not continue the good tradition of this parliament of not having national campaigns here, if you introduce this new style instead, then we will give you the right answer! (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, they have indeed tortured me for a long time, i had to wait a long time and mr swoboda has already said something about my temperament. you, madam president, differ in your answers in a really pleasing way from mr poettering this afternoon. you have answered my questions objectively and very carefully. i've been in politics long enough to know that if you ask a female president and a faction leader gets excited and intervenes, you're on the right track. (applause from the left) i would therefore ask you, madam president, if you would allow me to ask you to answer my questions which you have not answered. i asked them three. the question was how you can explain that such a sensational incident has been left unaddressed by the spanish authorities for so long. you have asked the spanish authorities for an answer, and then you have been unfairly kept waiting for months. why do you think that is, and why didn't you give me an answer? and then i'm going to ask you to answer the following questions: are you absolutely certain that the berlusconi/dell'utri case, i.e. that the spanish supreme court addressed a request directly to the european parliament, is a unique case, the first time that has happened, i.e. can you definitively rule out that there have been cases in the past where the spanish supreme court addressed the parliament directly and the parliament immediately initiated the usual procedure here? i would like to ask you a specific question: has there ever been a case in which the supreme court had direct contact with the president of parliament, and has parliament ever accepted this procedure at any other time? i therefore ask you to answer this question because it is not a question of an internal italian election campaign, but of ensuring that all members of this house are treated equally, whether they are dell'utri, berlusconi, poettering or schulz. that's what this is about, nothing else! (applause from the left)
i have to say, madam president, i would just like to make a brief comment on mr schulz's remarks on equal treatment. i am one of the three permanent rapporteurs on the legal committee on immunities. i can only say that we do treat everyone equally. i also believe that your approach to the berlusconi and dell'utri question is just an expression of equal treatment. i myself dealt with a specific case in the legal affairs committee, in which we have been seeking the opinion of the german authorities for nine months and have received no response. that is, such events are quite normal, they are in no way unusual. i can only strongly support your position on the question of these immunities. i think that the question of the treatment of immunities is not a matter that should be discussed politically in this house. this is about law, not politics. that is a very important difference which should be taken into account in the debate, and i am very grateful to you for your attitude!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank all the members of the committee of the regions, on behalf of the epp group, for allowing us to have such a factual discussion of the commission's communication on the safe transport of radioactive materials. this is not a subject suitable for politics. i want to make it very clear: the most dangerous thing we have today in the transport of radioactive materials is the protesters on the edge of these transports, who are sawing railways, digging railway dams and doing similar things. a test run is now being held on railway tracks in germany. this is far more dangerous than the transports themselves. the commission's communication also makes it clear that in europe we are essentially dealing with low-level radioactive materials which are transported and used in the interests of the public, namely as medical devices. no one will be immune to that. we, the epp group, will vote against all - and i say this explicitly - against all the amendments tabled by our colleagues in the plenary, because we believe that we have reached an excellent compromise in committee, which is worth defending at the plenary level as well. i would like to emphasize once again that it is not the task of the european union - as my friend konstantinos hatzidakis, the rapporteur, has said - to dictate to individual member states which sources of primary energy they should use. but if the majority of member states are still committed to nuclear energy today, there must be safe and appropriate procedures for this too. i hope that the member states will really comply with the information obligation laid down in the communication. here is the next nail test in germany, at the end of march, when it comes to bringing recycled materials from the hague to the final storage in germany. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am in favour of concentrating on what is actually in the report, because i think that it still bears in large part the handwriting of mrs isler beguin. i think that is a good thing and i would also like to thank the chairman of the committee who has completed the work. it is not disputed that nuclear energy and the transport of nuclear waste are the responsibility of the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the report says that the transport of radioactive material is not risk-free. i therefore think it is important to stress in the report that, firstly, the safety of people and nature must remain the absolute priority, and secondly, that the maximum level of information must be provided to the local authorities and the population. many people in germany are worried right now, they are moved by what is coming to them. that they can speak their minds and demonstrate against it is also in there. we are united in condemning acts of violence against people and against things, because it is counterproductive. i 'll add for us: the proposal put forward by a politician named möllemann in the federal republic of germany to transport castor by zeppelin through the air must also be rejected. it would certainly not meet the requirements, but it would make nuclear transport even more dangerous. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the nuclear power industry. but you and i are not the majority in this world and in this society. that is why we should concentrate on this communication, namely that the transport of nuclear waste will be as safe as possible in the near future. if we succeed in doing what the german government is doing, namely deciding to abandon nuclear energy and implementing it, then in a few years we may both have achieved our goal.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner lamy, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. seattle has shown that the us is no longer the sole dominant power in the wto. we are on an equal footing with the united states as the european union. the same applies to the asian countries, and the developing countries also play an important role. with a share of almost 40% in trade and services, the european union has become a major negotiating partner in the world, with responsibility in all areas of the wto, and with the aim of involving all industrialized countries, but also developing countries. we must live up to this responsibility by raising our voice in time, also as the european parliament, and by being present to give direction to the negotiations now under way. so today we want to do this job and make our position clear to the people of europe in time with our recommendations on the wto's built-in agenda. we want it to be taken into account now in the mid-april 2001 wto review. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the whole range of issues of environmental protection, health policy, competition, minimum social standards and so on are not being discussed today. we shall be able to clarify these issues in another set of recommendations in a few months' time, but certainly before the new multilateral round in qatar at the beginning of november. i would ask my colleagues on the other committees concerned to be patient until then. i have a special opportunity to address my colleague mrs flemming, who has made some very interesting suggestions. i am sure that you will play an important role in the next round in the committee responsible, but also in the plenary. this report on the 'built-in' agenda is intended to cover only the three areas, not the whole package. let me make a few points. first, the agricultural sector. as stated in the council's mandate of december 2000, we want to strike a balance between trade and non-trade concerns in agriculture. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we agree with the commission's bold proposal, which we strongly supported and which has also led to the recent decision of the council of ministers, namely the complete opening of the market to all the products of the 48 least developed countries of the world. they are a signal for a close partnership with the developing countries in the framework of world trade, a signal which does not lose its value even with the transitional period for sensitive products. we are also in favour of vigorously defending the european multifunctional agricultural model. the details are again clearly set out in the report. the services: we want the further liberalisation of services. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. in the area of intellectual property, we want to ensure that biodiversity is respected and that, in the case of plant-based inventions, there is a fair sharing of the economic benefits between the donor country and the companies wishing to market the material. we want greater transparency in the preparation and conduct of the ministerial conference. the wto's membership processes, reporting mechanisms and frequency of wto conferences must be subordinated to this objective. in order to achieve greater democratization and better control of the wto mechanisms, we call for the early establishment of a parliamentary assembly to discuss the reform of the wto between the various regions of the world, between the parliaments involved in the decision-making process and parliamentarians in the field of trade, and for the introduction and implementation of effective control of the wto bodies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the world trade organization is a huge economic success story. it is such a great success that our citizens are often frightened and feel a sense of dread. it is the european parliament's task to instill confidence in the positive sustainability of this process. i therefore expressly welcome the fact that the epp group has included the safeguarding of cultural diversity in the schwaiger report as one of its demands. our aim must be to communicate to people - in a credible, informed and understandable way - that this process we are working for has the vision of achieving four goals in sustainable development: sustainable economic growth for all, protection of our environment, respect for appropriate social standards and preservation of cultural diversity. the european union is not only an economic community but also a community of values, and we should take this approach beyond the union. the report by mr schwaiger provides a new and very good basis for this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner lamy, i have to ask you to look at this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. firstly, you will see from the amendments which have been tabled subsequently this week that there is a great deal of interest in this subject in this house and that interest is always concentrated on a few areas. the question is: are the trips negotiations really so promising, should they be continued in this way or should there be no review? does more need to be done in the field of agriculture? how can good consumer protection be ensured? there are other questions besides that. i would like to ask you a few questions about the so-called 'built-in' agenda which is now being negotiated and which will then be reviewed in march. how different are the negotiators of the built-in agenda? what is the impact of the agricultural crisis we are having in europe on these negotiations and how far have they gone overall? or is there a little bit of tenor business as usual, and we just carry on as if nothing happened in the past? the second point i would like to raise is that you have issued a document which shows that you want greater flexibility in the forthcoming wto negotiations. now the concept of flexibility is very broad. i very much welcomed this document, but i am sure it will also provoke a great deal of political discussion in this house. it can mean anything . so i have a few questions: does this document represent a departure from the european union's strategy, which has been to have and to have a comprehensive role - for example, in competition, investment, but also in all the soft issues such as social standards, labour standards and progress in environmental matters? so does the document represent a departure from that? does this mean that you have to get a new negotiating mandate, or is the old negotiating mandate sufficient? what will be the impact on cooperation with the european parliament? in this context i am very grateful to mr clegg for his reiteration that article 133 is unacceptable to us in its present form. this is nothing new to you, and we are fighting side by side here, but the council is listening, and perhaps one day the council will be ready to work with us to bring about change. the third point i would like to make is that you met your colleague, mr soellig, in the united states and, as we have heard from the press, the mood was very good, which is not surprising to me, because you are old friends and so we hope that we have a better future in the transatlantic relations. but what do you expect in particular now, given the good relations, for the new negotiations in the wto? will there be positive signals and will these positive signals lead to a negotiating strategy in june/july which will also lead to qatar? will this negotiating strategy include the developing countries?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report on the wto negotiating package makes the justified call for agricultural issues to be retained as a negotiating mandate under the existing treaty. the exchange of concessions in the agricultural sector for concessions in other areas of the negotiations must not be allowed. this is necessary to ensure the preservation of small-scale landscapes, rural employment, the protection of the environment and resources, and modulated agricultural programmes, and to protect them from the liberalisation of the world market. the adoption and safeguarding of a high level of consumer protection in the eu places particular demands on the agricultural sector and is the first condition for fair trade in agricultural products without border controls. in recent decades, the european food industry has benefited to a considerable extent from developments on the world market, particularly in the processing of agricultural products with high and highest value added. as the second largest agricultural exporter and by far the largest exporter of processed food, the european union must therefore have a strong interest in a well-functioning world trade. the key to the negotiations is that the actors involved in sustainable agriculture are not pitted against each other, but are harmonized. the concerns of food security and rural employment, consumer protection and environmental protection, and the conservation of all resources are viewed and weighed by the parties involved in different ways. at the same time, the wto should address issues that have become more apparent to the general public. these include health, environment and social concerns, and not just three separate issues. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. agriculture is not to be regarded as a commodity or an industrial commodity, because there is one thing that the farmer cannot do, unlike the industrial forest, namely to transfer his means of production to the place where the conditions of production are most favourable, where wages are lowest, the sun shines best and there is also enough rain. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the multifunctionality of agriculture must also be recognized and enforced by the world trade organization, and therefore the promotion of agriculture must also be guided by ecological and social criteria, and i should like to say this explicitly here: this must not be a case of new forms of agricultural protectionism, particularly against developing and emerging countries. these are also to be considered separately here. but this also means that the european union cannot then dump its large surpluses at world market prices with high export subsidies in order to disrupt or even destroy the markets of others. there are many examples of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the present crisis in agriculture, which we are experiencing here in the european union, is also a proof of this. we must concentrate first and foremost on the european internal market and whoever wants to produce for the world market should do so, no question, but without subsidies and support from the european union. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers. a basic rule that we must not forget is that man needs one thing at all times and in all places: healthy food, water to drink, and air to breathe. without these three basic conditions, we can give ourselves everything else!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the past weeks and months, much has been said in the agricultural policy debate about a reorientation of agricultural policy. i do not want to go into these current problems at this point, but i think that some things have been left out of the discussion. i am referring to the fact that it is hardly possible to put the whole of european agriculture on the spot and to condemn the achievements of the common agricultural policy in its entirety. the european sugar market policy in particular does not deserve such an assessment. the sugar market regulation is like a horse on the winning streak, as has been emphasized again and again in this debate. for many years, consumers have been provided with a safe staple food at low prices. some critics, though, argue that sugar is too expensive. mr daul has pointed this out, but it should be a wake-up call, firstly because many of these critics are not concerned with the welfare of consumers but with their own profits, secondly because the production of a basic foodstuff below european environmental and social standards has a justified price, and thirdly because the price of sugar we have in europe, in terms of the purchasing power of consumers, is probably one of the lowest in the world. some also say that the sugar market regulation is a dinosaur. it has been in force for 32 years, since 1968, but it has been amended many times. that is why a longer period of application is now necessary, at least five years, as the rapporteur, mr daul, has said. the storage cost system would be wrong if it were changed ... the president shall remove the speaker from office.
the commission has already done so. the sugar market regulation shows that administrative measures can also be used to achieve something reasonable. i am reminded of our discussion here on the pig market regulation. mr mayer, you know that i said at the time that i would remind you of the time when your own ranks were vehemently opposed to this and called for the free market. i said at the time that i would come back to that in the sugar market regulation. but you were a little split up. mrs schierhuber, if i remember correctly, voted for the pigs regulation at the time, but we are now on sugar, and i think that the sugar market regulation should not be swept away, but that there should be some corrections. production must be strictly geared to consumption in the european union. this also means that what we take in from other countries - for example, the acp - is not exported. we can very well import sugar from the least developed, the poorest countries. i am in favour of a quantitative definition, so that we do not have a circular economy. that means that we must bring the quota back into the system - no more c sugar, no more sugar exports at the expense of agricultural producers! because even if it happens with the money, it's still dumping. the european union must also stop using public funds to cover storage costs. i am in favour of the sugar market being self-supporting. then let it be preserved in this way. a thought to conclude. i mean, in the ecological realm, there's a lot that could be done with sugar. the use of nitrogen has been reduced because it has made the sugar harvest worse, but apart from that there is still a lot to be done in the field of agriculture and the sugar factories can be obliged to take over a certain proportion of the organically grown sugar.
the commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the chairman of the committee on culture, mr gargani, for his clear explanation of the question on a subject which the commission also considers to be of the greatest importance. i shall try to answer the various questions in the question in the order in which they are worded. firstly, the communication on information policy announced by the commission will be presented by the end of the summer and will then be submitted to the interinstitutional committee, the committee on culture, chaired by mrs gargani, and the committee on budgets of parliament. as regards the second point, the commission takes account of developments in information technology in several ways: the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's information society, and will continue to support the development of the european information society. thirdly, the commission is drawing on experts and professionals in the development of its information policy, especially as regards the strategy for widespread campaigns, such as those mr gargani himself has rightly emphasized, on the enlargement of the union and the euro. the commission also uses these professionals for training in information technology; the citizens are consulted through the numerous dialogues on europe which have been organised within the framework of the intergovernmental conference and which will be intensified around the issues of the future of europe. representations and networks of information centres for the general public are the voice of the practical concerns of citizens, and their input allows the information strategy to be adapted to the country or other specific factors. fourthly, what are the pillars? the main pillars, announced in april 2000 by commissioner reding, will be reflected in the commission's communication; the commission will also take account of the principle of subsidiarity, which is clearly underlined in the lisbon conclusions. fifthly, the commission intends to develop a regional dimension to its information policy, first of all by listening more closely to the regional press and to the requests of local authorities. it also intends to continue to develop information centres - infopoints - information centres known as rural carrefours, european documentation centres, in order to achieve adequate regional coverage. the large communication centres, such as those in paris, lisbon or rome, often integrated by a regional and local network, are a good example of cooperation between the institutions and the member states and are points of reference for information intended for the general public. the internet is accessible at regional level; the commission also has eight representative offices in different regions of the union. the commission has sought to bring together all the communication instruments in one single service, in order to listen more closely to opinions and to react quickly and in the most direct way. it has established, through its network of regional representations and branches, a rapid alert system capable of identifying communication difficulties posed by certain topical european issues in order to be able to react with targeted messages better suited to a certain type of audience. in terms of public relations, the commission will launch, as part of the 'future of europe' action, a wide-ranging operation to listen to citizens in order to better identify the information they wish to receive, from whom they wish to be informed, where and by what means. this action is part of the continuation of the dialogue for europe, in which the european parliament has been very much involved. the commission will put in place evaluation mechanisms and parameters for measuring efficiency. the first way of assessing an information policy is by conducting opinion polls in the 15 member states; the standard eurobarometer has been enhanced by a special eurobarometer which provides a more refined analysis by country. cost-effectiveness studies at the level of representative offices will be launched in 2001. other evaluation tools will be developed as part of the modernisation of the commission's resource management policy and in particular its press and communication service. finally, mr president, on the last and eighth point, the commission has instructed its press and communication service to draw up a new initiative on cooperation between parliament and the commission in the field of information. a technical cooperation group has begun its work and all the main issues concerning the institutions, the euro, enlargement and actions relating to the future of europe will be the subject of joint communication strategies. the euro was the subject of the first agreements between the commission and the member states for large-scale information campaigns. this effort must be continued and widely expanded. the commission's information budget is currently eur 90 million, the equivalent of one newspaper per inhabitant per year. the importance of the task to be carried out means that each member state must support the investment which falls to it, since information on europe concerns all public authorities. i would like to thank you again, mrs gargani, for drawing attention once again to these very important issues. i have offered, as far as i was able, the main lines of the responses and i can assure you that my colleagues in the commission are working very hard to meet this great challenge.
the commission has already done so. mr monti, you have had a most thankless task. i can't imagine you've been very comfortable in your own skin tonight, because i want to tell you: i hear the words, but i lack the faith. that's the problem. we have been waiting for months for what you have indicated to us today, that it might come in the summer. your word in god's ear, or wherever it is done, what you have told us. i mean, when you take something from somewhere, you have to know where to put it. it's been taken away from people who have done it quite well in the last few months and years. they've learned along the way. now you've given it away and it's all going to waste. i think it's awful. it's like a poor orphan. nobody cares like that, nobody's responsible like that. that is why i think that what was intended as good in theory has not yet become a good in practice. so we've been waiting for this announcement for a long time, and i can't wait to see when it comes. i would like to suggest to the commission, beyond what is in our texts, that perhaps it should not have to create so much new, but rather should have access to those who are doing great work on the ground. they exist. there are networks that are unlikely to work well, and she should use them. i can't believe you're here to praise the info points. i know of one information point which does a great job, but it cannot live on the money from the european commission, which always comes at the end of the year or the year after. they don't know if they're gonna be here next year. how can we expect people to work there who are motivated to motivate others? i mean, there's a lot of work to be done in that area. we want to be able to pull together and make the best of it. only, it can only be done by decentralization. you said it. so let us not reinvent the wheel, but let us use all those who can really bring europe over with local colour and not just brussels europe! (applause from the centre)
the commission mr president, i should like to thank all the honourable members who have spoken in this important debate. i shall of course report the considerations made to commissioner reding first and to the whole commission. i should like to make a few brief remarks. first of all, i am convinced, as are you, ladies and gentlemen, that europe is not just brussels, and that is why, in the commission's information policy, decentralization - of course, with a unified vision that sees parliament and the commission at the centre - is one of the key parameters. while i think it is right to encourage us to do better, i would also like to say that the balance sheet is not as bad as it may seem at first sight. within a few weeks, the commission effectively transferred responsibility for information policy from eac to press, and this also applies to the officials responsible for it: from 1 january 2001, press is responsible for managing all budget lines relating to the assets transferred from eac, chapter b3-3 of the budget; the formal adoption of the new establishment plan for the press and communication service is linked to the decision to appoint a commissioner to be responsible for the dossier by the president. this type of appointment, which is not an easy task for a commission in office, should be possible as soon as possible. i can add that the transfer from eac to press was carried out with the transfer of 104 people and a budget of eur 90 million, intended for information to the general public. obviously, this move poses some logistical problems, which will be resolved before the summer. the representative offices continue their role of informing the general public, which they have never really stopped doing, and they do so now in partnership with dg press and no longer with eac.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the question of the situation of the shipbuilding sector in the community is motivated by deep concern for the continued existence of this industry. on the one hand, international competition remains highly distorted. the market conditions, characterised by artificially low prices, particularly from korea, can still only be described as extremely anti-competitive. on the other hand, the demands made by the european parliament in its resolution of 14 december last year have not yet been met or have not been met sufficiently. it remains unclear how the european shipbuilding industry can be supported to further improve its international competitiveness. it remains unclear how consistently the commission has responded to parliament's call to initiate dispute settlement proceedings against the republic of korea at the world trade organisation. the commission's and the council's decisions so far are therefore inconsistent and illogical in important areas. on the one hand, there are clear violations of the agreements reached by korea, and on the other hand, there is a failure to act promptly and appropriately. this can only be to the disadvantage of european shipyards. a closer examination only in may 2001 accepts that the union yards have been subject to unfair competition for almost half a year. this means additional burdens and risks in an already complicated situation. this can be devastating for individual firms. the acute situation is a distortion of competition and an existential threat, and the european union risks serious strategic damage if it does not act more swiftly and consistently against obviously unfair practices. the procedures so far have been rather bizarre. let me compare this to a sports contest. how do you think a fighter who has just recovered from a serious illness feels when he is sent to the ring? there he meets a serious opponent who, although convicted of doping several times, is still not suspended. on the contrary, the premiums are going up. this is an opponent who is already hitting below the belt line as usual, while the referee watches indifferently and the referees argue about how to evaluate the low blows of the doping sinner as whole or half points!
mr president, as regards the general situation, i fully share the concerns and criticisms expressed by my two predecessors. i would ask for your understanding if i concentrate exclusively on the situation of the shipyards in eastern germany. the image of the boxing ring used by mr gomolka means that the east german shipyards will have to enter the boxing ring in chains. they are faced with rigid production restrictions, which i know of course were the condition for high aid in the 1990s. but firstly, they are organized bureaucratically and secondly, they do not take into account that these yards are continuing to invest in the course of the general rationalization. this makes productivity growth the starting point for further reductions in the workforce. the commission, commissioner, has very good statistical information on the dramatic situation in eastern germany. but it's one thing to read that one in three people are looking for work there, and another to see it firsthand. i don't want to be misunderstood. i am well aware that the union has been very supportive of east germany since 1990, and that the commission has done a great deal. of course, the german federal government is also called upon to take part in this. but in the specific case of the shipbuilding industry, the decision is primarily the commission's. i think that the amsterdam treaty provides enough scope for political action and for the opening clause in the 2001 production limitation treaty to be used. i think it is necessary, firstly, to make the quotas more flexible so that they are not applied annually but for the remaining five years, secondly, to take account of the rationalization effects and thirdly, i really support the reintroduction of general production aids as long as south korea is so blatantly distorting competition.
the commission has already done so. it is extremely difficult to express in two minutes or less the disappointment that nothing has been done to help european shipbuilding. i think that this will not be the last time we discuss this subject in this parliament. mr monti, you are quite right to say that shipbuilding, research and development and intelligent maritime transport are our future. i wish i could believe that, because this is today. we know that shipbuilding is the last subsidized industrial sector. we know that you do not like this, nor do we, but shipbuilding needs immediate help, not permanent subsidies, do not misunderstand me, but financial aid until the market is back in order. it is no longer just about europe, nor is it just about south korea. i know from my own experience - i've just been to china and hong kong - other nations are watching us and taking our attitude as a negative example. we need positive statements, strong efforts and a convincing implementation of our shipbuilding standards and our maritime intelligence. it is not just a few jobs, it is not just one sector of the economy which we have so far managed so successfully. it is indeed a question of the new image of a modern european union. that's why we're asking for your help so urgently. i have come to know and appreciate you personally, mr monti, in the maritime dialogue. believe me, we don't want to see that trust in you squandered.
chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development. the commission is not the committee on agriculture and rural development rejects this request for urgency from the council. we believe we have time to write a proper report. we will not delay this report because there is an agreement between the groups that we will have this report ready by may and then we will put it to the vote in the plenary in may, so that there will be enough time to vote on this matter. we do not want urgency for that reason either, because you know that we did not achieve a co-decision for the european parliament in the agricultural sector in nice either. we would be cooperating, because if we agree to urgency now, we are out of business. we are not in favour of the council's proposal, but we are in favour of the council's proposal, and we are in favour of the commission's proposal.
mr president, i may not see any other way at the moment, but i would still like to protest against the fact that question time is increasingly being made a sort of free-for-all for planning, that is, that every time there is a bottleneck, question time is shortened. i do not think that is right, because question time is covered by the treaties. it is a basic parliamentary right. i find it impossible to always save at this point. members shall submit their questions in due time and shall also be entitled to have those questions answered. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to remind you once again that the french initiative before us is aimed at combating illegal immigration, and i would like to thank mr kirkhope very much for his balanced report. the idea is to prevent the attempt of illegal entry from the beginning usually in the home country . at present, transport companies indirectly promote illegal entry by not carrying out checks on travel documents. it is only when you arrive in an eu member state that the border authorities can detect an attempt to enter illegally. the commission proposes a simple and effective solution. transport companies should check the presence of the necessary travel documents or visas at the time of departure and, if necessary, refuse carriage. in order to guarantee these controls and at the same time to counter deliberate aid to illegal entry, uniform fines must be introduced in the eu. this is the only way to ensure a common and coherent attitude to illegal entry. the proposal to abolish fines for asylum applications is counterproductive, since asylum applications are almost always made. therefore, a refund of the fine to the transport undertaking should only be made if an asylum application is accepted. it is quite right for the transport company to check the travel documents required for entry into the country of destination, together with the ticket and the flight. this must apply to all modes of transport, including rail. the transport undertakings, on the other hand, are not entitled to take over the actual return transport. this should be transferred to the national police or the appropriate law enforcement authority. this is the only way to ensure effective and orderly return. however, this proposal also has its flaws: meaningful aspects of a common immigration and asylum policy should be considered in the context of an overall approach and not be introduced prematurely as individual measures in the legislative process. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the kirkhope report is not a contribution to a progressive common policy on asylum and refugees. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the schengen agreement is respected and that the schengen agreement is applied in full. already airline employees are being forced into the role of auxiliary police officers. the member states must first create the conditions which will ensure that the so-called trafficking gangs make a profit. if in future transport companies are to pay fines of up to eur 5 000 for not complying with their so-called obligations, one can already imagine where this will lead. the eu will further strengthen its character as a buffer state. this cannot be the way we deal with refugees and immigrants in the future. more than 2000 people were killed at the union's external borders last year, according to estimates by the anti-racism human rights organisation united. this is a state of affairs that is intolerable to the highest degree. if we want to go down the road towards a european framework legislation on asylum, we must also ensure that asylum seekers can come to us. otherwise, any directive, even if it formally refers to the geneva convention on refugees, will remain a mere slip of the tongue and will in essence violate its spirit. in conclusion, let me say a word about my own country. unfortunately, the german minister of the interior is now one of the most important protagonists of a european policy of isolation. (applause from the centre) germany is blocking the humanization of its refugee and immigration policy in almost all areas. any proposal from the commission which goes in this direction is rejected by the german minister of the interior. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i ask all of you here not to allow this spirit of closing off europe and turning away people who are seeking help to take hold. i am not saying that we should not be concerned.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. there is no doubt that we are all in favour of a sound management and control of immigration, including the safeguarding of the union's external borders. i think we can all agree on that and there is no need to argue about it. but on the other hand, i think we also agree - and mr kirkhope, as a former british home secretary, will agree with me - that in the end we will not achieve much with all these individual measures and we are dealing with an area where we do not want to solve the basic problems but we want to achieve at least something with small steps. if that is the case, then it is also clear that we must discuss this as ideologically free as possible. so if we also agree that we want to have an ideological-free discussion, and we know that illegal immigration can never be completely prevented - so no matter what happens, there will always be illegal immigration - then of course we also have to admit that we can achieve very little by punishing transport companies alone. if we agree on this, mr kirkhope, we must also admit that if we want to do something, we must talk to the transport companies. i am currently in talks with representatives of the international transport unions and i think there is still room for finding common ground. but it is precisely when you talk to these entrepreneurs that you realise, mr kirkhope, that your proposals are not helpful at all and that you want to make the french initiative, which is already being rejected by the transport companies, even more restrictive. i wonder why we are even bothering with such a report, which is not supported by anyone.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. not everything that's legal is legitimate. not everything that is illegal is illegal. we've talked a lot about crime here today. but i do not think it is a crime to help people in need who want to enter the eu to do so, just because it is illegal, but the crime is the eu's policy of isolation. even the unhcr recognizes this. in a study on human smugglers, he found that the problem is the eu's fortress policy and that the only way to change this is to open up the borders, not to take action against the so-called smugglers. the second problem i want to raise in connection with this report, which seeks to hold transport companies more accountable, is that in germany this has led to racist behaviour, to the authorities calling on taxi drivers to behave racist. it has been said that you can tell whether someone is illegal or not if he is standing at the german-polish border and wants to be transported by you, because the taxi drivers themselves have no legal means of checking the papers of these people. so they were told: "you can tell these people! no one is illegal, and you can't tell if a person is illegal or not. one last point that made me very skeptical is that at the time when there was still the gdr and the frg, two germanys, in the 70s, the german supreme court once made a decision and said that smuggling is legitimate, which is the same thing that i just told you, and that it is even legitimate to ask for money for it. so, the commercial flight aid that you're criminalizing here, it was highly praised back then. i am afraid that the whole issue will be exploited, that people will not dare to take action against refugees and illegal immigrants, and that new victims will be needed. that's why you're gonna find the escapees, whether they're paid or not. they need our support to get more people across the border cheaper.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the question is about burden-sharing in the reception of refugees from civil war. it is as if the awkwardness of this title makes it clear how unpleasant the question behind it is to europeans. the way in which the europeans have dealt with the burden-sharing solution so far can only be described as a mourning game. the problem has been known for many years. we have had to learn with pain what happens when civil wars break out in the area of the former yugoslavia, for example, and people flee in their tens and hundreds of thousands - of course they go where they are safe from persecution and war in the first place. in the past, this was particularly the case in austria, but also in italy, the netherlands and germany. my country, for example, took in more than twice as many refugees during the bosnian war as all the other countries combined. that is why for years the people concerned have been pressing for this issue to be finally resolved. but the council has not yet done more than make statements of solidarity with the reception of refugees. i would remind you of the most unfortunate attempts of commissioner vitorino's predecessor, mrs gradin. those interested may want to take a look at this. i am therefore grateful to you, mr vitorino, for taking up all these problems with the energy of tampere. i would add that, unlike the previous item on the agenda, this is not the initiative of a member state, but the initiative of the commission and the commissioner responsible. so you are responsible for it. as much as i welcome your approach in principle, i have reservations about the details. the question of burden sharing is confined to a single problem. is it regulated that all member states must take in refugees, or is it not regulated? if you, mr vitorino, stick to the principle of the so-called double voluntariness, which means that refugees should decide for themselves which member state they go to and that member states should only accept refugees voluntarily, then everything will remain as it is and nothing will change at all. the burden of acceptance cannot be balanced by financial benefits. the first thing that should happen is that member states cannot rely on a financial contribution, but that all are obliged to actually take in refugees, according to a certain key, which of course takes into account the reception possibilities of each country and all other conceivable aspects, which also ensures that families are not torn apart, which also takes into account the wishes of the refugees themselves within the framework of a quota. but it must be stated that each member state is obliged to contribute personnel to the reception of refugees. that's the first weakness of your design. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has thankfully corrected this, and i hope that the house will follow the opinion of the committee on the environment. the second point, mr vitorino, is that of family reunification. the concept of a family without borders which you use cannot be imposed on all member states. if you want to take in all dependent relatives in addition to the nuclear family, you should do so. the member states cannot be forced to do this, it must be optional. that is our second serious objection. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would also like to return to the two points to which our criticism of the commission's proposal refers. first of all, there is the question of the dual voluntary nature of the distribution of civil war refugees, that is, the possibility for a refugee to choose a country and the possibility for a country to reject any refugee. the house of europe was founded by our founding fathers as a house of solidarity. this solidarity is still expressed today, for example, in the support of structurally weak regions from european funds. the demand for greater equity in the burden-sharing of refugee reception is therefore not only a justified demand, but burden-sharing is an expression of this solidarity of the peoples of europe. in the past, as has been pointed out here on several occasions, only a few states have borne the brunt of the civil wars in the former yugoslavia. if mrs frahm has just made a great speech here, it is easy for her, or not at all, because she comes from a country which has not been particularly outstanding in this solidarity. unlike the governments at the nice summit, we as europe's directly elected parliamentarians are now called upon to overcome national animosities and to opt for a european solution in the sense of a quota distribution of refugees according to national capacity. the double voluntary nature of the proposal would otherwise make the commission's proposal, which is good in principle, superfluous. the second important point is family reunification. this is also a matter of a fundamental principle of our community, namely the principle of subsidiarity. the question now being decided is whether the eu will adopt and regulate the definition of family in a centralised way or whether it will start with the concept of the nuclear family, which is common to all member states, and leave the member states to decide on the rules that go beyond this. the latter is contained in the compromise motion by the rapporteur, mr wiebenga. it is in line with the tradition of this house to resist attempts by the brussels bureaucracy to take over the responsibilities of the member states. today you have the opportunity to show what the concept of subsidiarity means to you. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be involved in the matter of the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. commissioner vitorino complained this morning that he had to comment on an initiative which was not his. the same difficulty will now be faced again, because we are talking about a french initiative. it concerns the mutual recognition of return decisions and is another example of the good reason for the commission to have a monopoly on initiative. the commission is clearly more able than individual member states to transport the community interest, while individual member states are clearly focused on their own interests. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one. this initiative dates from the final period of the french presidency, when the balance sheet of that presidency was already threatening to be extremely thin. the commission has also been very active in the field of the environment, and has been very active in the field of the environment. for those interested in the law, i recommend that you keep the first draft and the second side by side. the first is all good will and politics, the second draft was then studied by the lawyers and the whole enterprise was turned into what can rightly be called a legislative initiative, so the change in the quality of legislation from the first to the second initiative is considerable. the legal objective is also to be acknowledged. it means nothing more and nothing less than that an expulsion order, which is made, say, in paris, is binding on the whole community. that makes sense. it would be quite absurd to invoke in helsinki or berlin or in any other member state a decision taken in paris in the common area of security, freedom and justice. the community needs a legal basis for such action. the objective to be justified in terms of legal policy does not replace the legal basis. this is precisely what the ecj has taught us in its decision on the tobacco advertising directive. the court of justice has also held that the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment and occupation is not a fundamental principle of community law. the home affairs committee has twice unanimously concluded that there is no such legal basis for the french initiative. the french government bases its action on article 63 of the ec treaty. there you will find the legal basis for a european right of return. this is not the same as mutual recognition of decisions on return taken at national level. a community right of return would be a directive in which the community, through an orderly legislative procedure, lays down the conditions under which an illegal person may be expelled, possibly even deported, but in this case all member states are to mutually recognise what is regulated in their respective national legal bases by expulsion orders and similar decisions. this is a qualitatively different matter. as we have been dealing with the question of whether the european union, and in particular its community component, can do whatever it wants, with a little more care recently, we in the committee on the internal affairs have come to the clear conclusion that we support this approach in legal terms, but we do not see a legal basis for it. that is why we propose that this initiative be rejected. we have also put forward a proposal for a solution. it is quite clear that the problematic situation can be solved if there is a european right of return. the only consequence of this process can be that we ask the commission to submit a draft directive for a european, community and also community-wide right of return. then all the problems associated with this initiative must be solved. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on behalf of my group i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs angelilli, for her report. i would also like to thank the work of our committee, because it is precisely in this area that we have all succeeded in adopting this report together. i think that only together can we strike the stakes in the fight against crime that will lead to progress in the fight against it. the report will now enable the creation of an efficient network which will enable crime prevention to be coordinated at european level without restricting the scope for action. europe is not trying to take over powers, but to optimise the exchange of information between the authorities of the member states. in addition to this objective, the report also addresses the involvement of civil society organisations, universities and european institutions such as europol or eurojust in the crime-fighting network. this is in line with our expectations, because it does not reinvent every form of crime control in every country. this will only make better use of existing resources. this is to be welcomed. in other respects, this network is also important for crime prevention. the council and the commission will receive the information they need to develop appropriate crime prevention strategies. this is good because national bodies will then have an increased interest in exchanging with the network, not least to be able to bring their concerns across europe. the process of coordinating national strategies can thus be significantly accelerated. this is particularly welcome in the context of organised crime and modern forms of crime, whereas national authorities often complain that they are inferior to criminals because they cannot cope with the rapidly changing patterns and forms of crime. this can create a network of information that is available to all and can significantly improve the speed of response in the fight against crime. the network is also very important for the candidate countries, as it can help to better manage problems that may arise during the transition. in this sense we support the report with our additional amendments and we are very pleased that those responsible for implementation are finally getting the necessary support from parliament and the council. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i am the rapporteur who has experienced the same thing in the last month. what i can't understand in this room right now is that we've known color and we've made a decision. why do we have representatives of the council in this room at all? i would ask you to state your position at least now, before we go on to vote. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i would like to withdraw the text of amendment no 33 after the first 29 words, so that only the first 29 words are voted on. the rapporteur has been informed in advance.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, i would like to point out that competition policy is an important policy, but that it is not part of the 'built-in' agenda. that is why i would still say that i do not agree with this motion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the daul report calls for the sugar market regulation to be extended. that's why i turned him down. the system has nothing to do with the market, it is more like a planned economy, a combination of production quotas, minimum prices, import duties and export subsidies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the states allocate certain areas and quotas to sugar manufacturers and then this sugar is sold on a protected national market. it is difficult to imagine that 100 kg of white sugar costs 28 euros on the world market and the intervention price, the european union's guarantee price, is 65 euros. this is too expensive and bad for the consumers and for the sugar processors in the european union. this is not a promising solution!
commission - madam president, you will recall that on 7 september i spoke to parliament to inform it of the commission's position on the reform of fifa's rules governing international transfers. on that occasion i announced the commission's intention to engage in discussions with fifa and other interested parties, under the chairmanship of my colleague mario monti and with the collaboration of anna diamantopoulou, in order to make fifa's rules compatible with community law, while respecting, on the one hand, the specific nature of sport and, on the other hand, the autonomy of sports organisations. the declaration on the specific characteristics of sport adopted by the european council in nice last december fully confirmed this approach. today, after intensive discussions between the commission services, fifa and the other interested parties, i am pleased to be able to announce the result we have reached. this result, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, is in keeping with the principles i have just mentioned and to which we are all committed. in this whole affair, the commission has been accused very often of not understanding sport, and worse still, of wanting to destabilize football. the result of the discussions shows that these were unfounded accusations, and i believe that the discussions have allowed us to demonstrate once again that community law and the specific nature of sport are perfectly compatible. i therefore believe that there is no need to amend community law. the commission has shown in this case its flexibility in incorporating sport-specific features into existing texts. the discussions have led to clear progress in at least three key areas. firstly, and this has always been the wish of the european parliament, to protect young players who are moving around the european union by ensuring that they receive adequate general and sporting training. these principles will be reflected in a code of conduct to be drawn up by the football federations, and i attach particular importance to this because i believe that it is much more effective to provide players with proper supervision than to impose restrictions on their mobility - restrictions which are incompatible with the principle of free movement. let's not forget that in football there are many called but few chosen, and not all players will become stars of the ball. it is therefore essential to provide both sport and vocational training. with the new provisions, the commission wants to send a strong signal to all those young people who are involved in sport: they will not all succeed in sport, but they will all be taken into account in terms of human and individual development. the second element is to encourage and compensate clubs for the effort they make in training young people and thus giving a social dimension to their sporting activity, a social dimension which is also the characteristic of the european dimension of sport. to do this, fifa will have to introduce rules on: first, the compensation of training costs up to the age of 23, on the basis of the real cost, as defined by the court in the bosman judgment, and, secondly, the creation of a solidarity fund which will be fed by a levy of 5% on each transfer compensation payment, this fund being intended for training clubs which will thus receive a part of the added value of the player. the detailed application of these principles now belongs to fifa, and the commission will ensure that, within its competence, the transposition of these principles into the fifa rules is actually carried out, and i am sure, madam president, that the commission will not be alone, but that it will be followed in this monitoring work by both the ministers of sport and the parliamentarians engaged at national level. we are therefore convinced that it is possible to strike a balance between the mobility of the player and the necessary compensation of the training club, within the limits of what was established by the court in the bosman judgment. the third point is the introduction of elements of stability in sports competitions to ensure fairness and regularity. here are the mechanisms. first, unilateral termination of the contract will only be permitted at the end of the season. this will give the fan the assurance that he will see the same team play throughout the season. but he bought his membership to watch the team play, not another, sometimes with its best players. secondly, sporting sanctions are provided for against players and clubs who terminate contracts without good reason during the first two seasons of the contract. other important points complement these principles, such as the time-limited transfer periods or the duration of contracts, which vary from one to five years. ladies and gentlemen, in the course of these discussions we met with fifpro, which represents the players. some of their demands were met. the fifa rules will no longer prohibit players from going to court, but an arbitration tribunal will also be set up, composed on an equal basis and able to rule in an emergency, which will be able to decide disputes relating to training allowances, transfers and sports sanctions. i attach particular importance to a fair and independent arbitration. the introduction of such a body, which can be used by both players and clubs, should resolve disputed situations in a fair, timely and efficient manner. i would also like to point out that the commission has emphasized throughout this case that its discussions with fifa and other interested parties do not in any way prejudge the compatibility of the revised fifa rules with the applicable national law, and in particular with labour law. it is the responsibility of fifa to ensure that these rules are applied in compliance with national legislation, from which there can of course be no derogation. fifa has announced that the agreed principles will be implemented by a revision of the fifa rules at its world congress in buenos aires in july. the commission encouraged fifa to seek a close dialogue with the other interested parties for this implementation and more particularly, of course, with the players. in the commission's view, the transfer case has clearly demonstrated that dialogue at all levels is becoming a necessity and that all means of organising it, including through collective agreements at european level, should be explored. in addition, mrs diamantopoulou offered her assistance in encouraging a permanent dialogue at european level. let me conclude this statement by reminding you that fifa will prepare a report on the implementation of this system two years after the new agreement enters into force. we will then have both quantitative and qualitative information to draw the appropriate lessons. in the meantime, i think we should welcome the outcome of these discussions. but, madam president, it has not always been easy to achieve this. the pressure exerted by certain heads of state and government, strong but unnecessary and above all harmful, has delayed the conclusion of the case on more than one occasion. in any event, the commission stood its ground and was able to demonstrate in the end that it was not necessary to amend the treaty rules to respect the specific nature of sport, and it therefore maintained the course in strict compliance with its powers. this result allows my colleague, mario monti, to decide not to propose to the commission to adopt a negative decision on the fifa transfer rules.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner, thank you for being here today. we were all happy that there was a compromise at last, and i have always agreed with you that it is clear that the commission does not want to ruin football. i've had some bloody noses at home because i've been so on your side, but by now, i'm sure the rude pool boy will have realized that you're not gonna break his football. i am therefore pleased with the compromise, but i would like to ask you whether, apart from those who, for various reasons, are the winners of this compromise - young athletes, small clubs, big clubs - you are not afraid that this compromise, with its different treatment of athletes aged 28 and over, this violation of the principle of equality might not lead to more 'bosman's' in the end, which means that the ordinary courts may take a different view from this compromise. aren't you afraid of a big lawsuit coming our way?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr vitorino, mr marinho, what are you doing? i am very pleased that we are coming to this report today. i would like to thank you very much for preparing a subject which at first glance seems very technical, but which - and you have rightly emphasized this - is a very substantial contribution to a people's europe, because crossborder economies are on the increase. we have a single european market, we have a common european currency, which we will soon also hold in our hands in coins and notes. we will see an exponential increase in cross-border contracts through electronic commerce, and unfortunately, there are times when contracts can be difficult and there are times when they can be litigated. the essence of litigation is usually the taking of evidence, because legal issues are often easily settled, but when it comes to the facts, very different interpretations often arise. if we are dealing with a matter which is happening in another member state, the current situation is simply that legal aid is anachronistic, it is also provided under the hague convention on diplomatic channels, and is therefore very complicated, very time-consuming and unreliable. often a case is closed simply because a matter cannot be resolved, simply because the means of legal aid are not available. that is why it is so important that the federal republic of germany has put forward this proposal, and that is why our group strongly supports this initiative, because it offers more security, faster justice and ultimately more justice for the citizens of the european union. this legislation also contributes to curbing a trend which i am increasingly sceptical about. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a development which is actually contrary to the idea of the rule of law. this is a development - i am speaking to this house - which is also contrary to parliamentary democracy, because our system is actually designed so that parliaments pass laws and independent judges apply these laws. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we facilitate crossborder legal transactions, we will also facilitate the possibility for businesses and citizens to remain in these state-guaranteed systems. the internal market needs an efficient legal order, otherwise our whole endeavour to create competition and increased prosperity in the european union is in the air. i would like to conclude by saying that i have a somewhat mixed feeling about the fact that we are constantly dealing with proposals from the member states. i can say this with particular conviction because it is an initiative from the member state i come from. i find it embarrassing that we as the european parliament are not in a position to put forward such initiatives, and this report should also give us an opportunity to reconsider whether the european parliament should not have a right of initiative in this very sensitive area for the citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. one and a half years after the prodi commission took office, its full-throated announcements - zero tolerance for fraud and corruption - accompanied by promises by the old and new commissioner kinnock to make this commission the best administration in the world, still ring well in our ears. unfortunately, even after one and a half years of the prodi commission, there is a frightening gap between expectations and reality. in view of the lack of action on the so-called old cases and the failure to prevent new cases of fraud, the only question that can be put to this commission is: why do you not take advantage of the opportunity to make a real fresh start? unfortunately, there is still no fresh wind, apart from the wind produced by the tons of reform papers by commissioner kinnock, reforms which are already threatened with failure because of internal resistance by the workers. the commission has also been active in the fight against fraud and corruption, and has been involved in the preparation of the council of europe's annual report on the fight against fraud and corruption. the commission has ignored all parliament's suggestions in this respect. the same applies to parliament's demands for the creation of a european public prosecutor's office and the guarantee of the independence of the olaf anti-fraud office. the commission's strategy in the fight against fraud should not be one of concealment, disguise and deception. an example of how not to do this is the fléchard case, which dates back to the early 1990s. the arbitrary and illegal decision of the delors cabinet in january 1994 has finally created the conditions for this company to play a decisive role in a new and current butter fraud scandal between 1995 and 2000. the extent and consequences of this, both in financial terms and in terms of health risks to wider sections of the population, are neither clear nor foreseeable. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet known whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. for the first time, the case is not only about the considerable financial losses suffered by the community as a result of fraud, but also about the health of citizens in europe and in third countries. the need for swift and consistent action is therefore more urgent than ever. the commission must not, as has often happened, hide behind the protection of the economic interests of businessmen, but must strike a balance between these economic interests and the protection of the health of the population. the budgetary control is one of the first rights and duties of members of the european parliament, as in all democratic european countries. the commission should not therefore use tricks to obstruct this control. if you have nothing to hide, you have nothing to fear from the police. the commission's retention of confidential documents in its own power, or the fact that it gives them to some members and not others, is a flagrant breach of such fundamental principles of the rule of law as the principle of equal treatment and the prohibition of discrimination. the hotly contested framework agreement of 5 july 2000, which seems to offer the commission legal legitimacy for such an action, must be measured against these basic democratic principles and must ultimately fall short of them. i would like to thank mr bösch for his report and i hope that we will continue to have fruitful cooperation across party lines in this important area. (applause from the centre)
chairman of the committee on budgetary control. the commission is not first of all, i should like to congratulate mr bösch on his report. he did a really good job. the commission's conclusion that there has been no significant improvement in the fight against fraud is also in line with the opinion of the olaf monitoring committee. the commission itself says several times in its report that nothing substantial has changed in 1999 compared with previous years, and that the sum of money misused has in fact increased in some cases, for example in the structural funds. i repeat again and again: this is taxpayers' money. we must ensure their protection as best we can. in order to achieve the zero tolerance threshold promised by the commission, the independence of the olaf anti-fraud office, which was set up in 1999, must be strengthened. the first is that staff must be recruited from outside without the commission's interference. i support mr bösch's proposal that the appointments committee should be headed by an independent person. secondly, the director himself must provide a clear structure of the tasks. we do not want the old uclaf to be renamed olaf. unfortunately, the opportunity to strengthen olaf by creating a european financial prosecutor's office and under judicial control was lost in nice. despite the longstanding demands of parliament and the efforts of commissioner barnier and mrs schreyer in particular, this issue was not even on the agenda in nice. i now have a few questions to the commission as to whether it will, in accordance with paragraphs 9 to 12 of the bösch report, put forward proposals for the introduction of a 'i say' limited prosecutor's office by 1 june 2001. i would also ask the commission: not all the member states have yet ratified the convention on the protection of the financial interests of the union and are thus preventing its entry into force. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. secondly, what steps is the commission taking to eliminate the differences in national interpretation of community law on the recovery of own resources, as stated in point 7/1 of its report? finally, on the recovery of funds used illegally: the commission report does not contain figures for 1999. can the commission state how much it has recovered and received in comparison with the losses it has calculated, particularly in the case of own resources in the eaggf and the structural funds?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after all the praise for mr bösch, i don't know what to say. i think he knows i appreciate his work. i would therefore like to say a few words on some of the points which have been raised in the debate. point 1: we welcome - which has not been mentioned before - the fact that the olaf report on the fléchard case was received last week. this should be appreciated and taken into account in the further discussions. the report does not define, nor does it attempt to define, the position of the european parliament on this case. that is the question of the budgetary relief which will be on the agenda in a month's time. i would like to take this opportunity to give the commission some good advice. it would be very important for these further discussions on discharge that they reconsider their positions on this case and take the opportunity, for example, of the meeting of the committee on budgetary control next week. this could be a decisive contribution to further discussions on budgetary discharge. two other points that have something to do with misunderstandings: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must make it clear again in this report, through the request made by mr bösch himself and through the supplementary request made by mr mulder, that we have no interest in these categories being confused. i would like to illustrate this by an example, namely the contribution of mr seppänen. he called the fléchard case - literally - an irregularity and then linked it to the failure to issue the court of auditors' statement of assurance on the financial management of the commission. in this way we put everything together and perhaps give the impression to our visitors in the stands that even a booking error is a case of fraud, so to speak. that is not a matter of political interest. we need to make sure that this is kept separate. the second possible misunderstanding is not a misunderstanding between us but a misunderstanding outside this chamber, namely the flachs case. i have noted that in one member state the decisionmaking process of the committee on budgetary control has been presented as if it had carried out a re-balancing of responsibilities from the national to the regional level. i would like to say on behalf of my group that we want to ensure that, without prejudice to the internal organisation of the member states, the responsibility of the national authorities towards the european union for the proper implementation of european union programmes is upheld.
the commission. the accession negotiations are based on the principle that the candidate countries will recognise and apply the non-negotiable acquis communautaire as from the date of accession. transitional measures postponing the application of part of the acquis may be granted only in duly justified cases. in the enlargement strategy paper which the commission adopted on 8 november last year and which president prodi and i presented to this parliament on the same day, the commission set out principles for dealing with requests for transitional measures. the member states have agreed to these proposals and they are now the basis of our work. they can be summarised as follows: transitional measures should not concern the nature of the acquis but merely the postponement of its application for a certain period. they must not cause significant distortions of competition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not a one-off event, but a one-off event. the free movement of persons, the freedom of establishment and the free movement of capital are fundamental elements of the internal market. the negotiating timetable agreed by the european union commits the union to formulating a common position on these chapters by the end of the first half of the year at the latest, if the information provided by the candidate countries so permits. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to support the implementation of the community's policies. this applies also to poland and the czech republic, and i would also point out that part of our negotiating basis is that the commission may also make proposals for transitional measures if this is in the interest of the union as a whole.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not going to tell you. you know that i am in favour of the shortest possible transitional periods, and that i welcome your answer. i would like to ask you two specific questions. firstly, do you think it is conceivable that there will be no transitional periods at all for the two countries in the three areas mentioned? secondly, i would like to ask: do you think it is conceivable that, if there are transitional periods, exemptions for certain groups of persons in the area of freedom of movement on the one hand, could be counterbalanced by exemptions for certain groups of persons in the area of freedom of establishment on the other hand?
the commission. the first question is: yes, it is urgently necessary to bring enlargement closer to the citizens of the member states. you know, this is one of my big issues, and i'm also working on it very hard myself. it has improved somewhat, but it is not satisfactory, and the subject does not sell itself. we must explain to the people what is at stake and we must address the fears, the worries and the apprehensions associated with enlargement and tell the citizens in all seriousness and clarity what we are doing to prevent the risks they fear from occurring. secondly, applications for participation in this project must be sent through our representative offices in the capitals, because the whole project is decentralized, as i have already said, and because we also want to exploit synergies in the member states and the candidate countries. we're not the only ones doing something here. the responsibility is a little bit more spread out. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of information centres. so it's a decentralized project, and if you know of any organizations or groups that want to participate, the right answer would be to contact the representation in the respective capital. as far as city partnerships, schools, local councils, etc. are concerned, i think this falls under the concept of 'pre-existing communication structures'. i personally think that city partnerships in particular can be an extremely useful tool in this context, because we can build on already established contacts rather than having to make contacts first. i also think that exchanges between local politicians and schools are extremely useful. our delegations and representations in the capitals are duly informed that such programmes may be supported under this campaign.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask the commissioner, in addition, to what extent the euroregions are included in your strategy and to what extent the candidate countries themselves receive funds to inform us about themselves, because i believe that it is not only our task to inform the countries but also to enable them to get closer to us. i mean, there are projects like the planned european centre in asch and many others. i wanted to ask you if you had something like that in your plans.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0068/2001) by mrs oomen-ruijten, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from large combustion plants [11070/1/2000 - c5-0562/2000 - 1998/0225 (cod)).
- mr president, before i gave the floor to the rapporteur, i looked around the whole house to see if anyone wanted to table a procedural motion. (agitation) it was not the case at that time. i remind you that there is a possibility which you can always use tomorrow before the vote. article 144 (1) states that 'referral to committee may be requested by a political group or by thirty-two members when the agenda is being drawn up before the opening of the debate or the final vote'. i'm sorry, but that's the only option you have tomorrow. you're obviously free to use it. but once again, i've searched the whole house. mr. gorbachev once said, "in life, the one who arrives too late is always punished". i 'm sorry . (laughter) i assume that the other motions for a resolution all have the same object. is that correct ? it seems that it is. it is therefore not necessary for me to give a word to their authors.
mr president, i do not want to punish anyone, but i would like to get to the point fairly quickly. it is right that the european union has managed to introduce european rules of the game in the matter of incinerators. these european rules of the game are important for the simple reason that we have a liberalised electricity market in the european community and, of course, the standards for air pollution in this liberalised market should be comparable throughout europe. the commission has therefore done the right thing by focusing in particular on the old plants, which unfortunately have not been regulated since 1987 and which, if you will, have caused a relatively large amount of pollution throughout europe. i can confirm that the commission has taken action in this area. i welcome it very much and believe that a step in the right direction has been taken. of course, there is some debate about whether one should allow very small power stations to have one or another derogation for a year or two. we would have had no problem with that in seeking a compromise. it's a pity we couldn't come to this compromise. the way is right. and those who believe - and i say this despite all the anger expressed here - that environmental policy is a national task are mistaken, because the vast majority of the dirt that comes from the power stations ends up with our colleagues in sweden, finland, denmark and norway. i think we are all bound by a solidarity obligation to find an answer. i think we have found the answer, and we have also found ways of providing for derogations for small installations in the next few years. i think the rapporteur has made a good report. we should continue along these lines.
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0067/2001) by mrs myller, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council (c5-0563/2000 - 1999/0067 (cod)) with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the fixing of national emission ceilings for certain atmospheric pollutants.
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0041/2001) by mrs jackson, on behalf of the parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a recommendation of the european parliament and of the council (c5-0001/2001 - 1998/0358 (cod)) laying down minimum criteria for environmental inspections in the member states.
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0055/2001) by mr miller, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the common position of the council (c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2000 - c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - c7-0055/2001 - c7-0054/2001 - c7-0054/2001 - c7-0054/2001 - c7-0054/2001 - c7-0054/2001 - c7-0054/2001 - c7-0054/2001 - c7-0054/2001 - c7-0054/2001 - c7-0054/98 (cod)) for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the common position of the council with regard to the common position of the council (c7-0050/548/ it is here that it becomes clear how decisive what we are doing here is for the fate of the european union.
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0054/2001) by mr wijkman, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission to the council, the european parliament, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions - an action plan to improve energy efficiency in the european community (com (2000) 0247 - c5-0567/2000 - 2000/2265 (cos)) i am sure that the heating of the passenger compartment of motor vehicles also plays a key role in this area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has given us a good proposal. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for having improved and enriched these ideas considerably. these ideas are not new in themselves. we talked about this 10 or 15 years ago. there are reports, studies - everything we really want to know, we know. the question is, how can we do that? how can the technology that is available be combined with the money that is also available? i wonder if the european investment bank could play a greater role in this. the second problem i want to address is administrative matters. a small example from my home state: there are several universities, but let's take one as an example. buildings need to be insulated better, the energy system needs to be improved. it took many years to get this right. why would you do that? because the buildings belonged to the ministry of finance, but the ministry of science was the beneficiary. that means one ministry would have had to invest and the other would have benefited from it. but because of their differing accounts, they have not come together. it took many years, and it took an eu study, by the way, to get them together. it's absurd, but that's the reality. in addition, even in my own city, a car that consumes an extraordinary amount of fuel is currently selling extremely well, while cars that use little fuel are having difficulty finding buyers. this is the third problem, it's a behavioral problem. it is also up to the consumers, not just the legislators. if all three come together, we can achieve something, and i look forward to the commission's proposals. i can assure you, commissioner, that we will support you in this and we will also put forward initiatives in this direction.
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the next item is the report (doc. i thank you all for respecting the speaking time. thanks to this, we can turn off the lights 45 minutes earlier than planned and have thus achieved a famous energy saving. thank you very much . (the sitting was closed at 11.14 p.m.)
the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. 'i am very pleased to see the concrete steps taken to involve the citizens of europe in a debate which will be decisive for the future of europe.' this is how the first entry on the website on the future of europe by russell pickard from the united kingdom begins. he hopes that as many citizens as possible will express their views on fundamental questions such as 'what kind of europe do we want european citizens ?' "if we want change, let us become the change", writes vincente garcia-delgado segués from spain. "now every eu citizen can say what he or she wants negative or positive and the responsible leaders of the eu can take into account our wishes and hopes", writes ann catherine talbro from denmark. kurt linderoos from finland proposes that all eu citizens should contact an additional 14 people, one from each other's member states, to discuss the future of the eu. last week, parliament's vice-president david martin, the prime ministers of sweden and belgium and commission president prodi launched the debate on the future of europe. you, madam president, the two prime ministers and the president of the commission made a joint statement and the website, which was jointly initiated by parliament, the council and the commission, was launched. with the launch last week and with today's debate, we are leaving "after nice" behind and instead entering the debate on the future of europe. the nice declaration calls for a new intergovernmental conference to follow this broad debate on the future of europe in 2004. this year, the swedish and belgian presidencies, in cooperation with parliament and the commission, will encourage extensive discussions with all the parties concerned: representatives of national parliaments and of public opinion, schools and universities, and representatives of civil society. we will pay great attention to what the various political groups in europe, inside and outside this house, have to say. in this debate we must of course include young people - it is their future europe we are discussing - as well as the candidate countries, because they too will be part of building the future europe. the whole process must be as transparent as possible. our aim is to bring the union and its institutions closer to the citizens. the nice process will deal with the delimitation of eu and member state competences to reflect the principle of subsidiarity, the future status of the eu charter of fundamental rights, the simplification of the treaties without changing their content and the role of national parliaments in the european structure. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i think it is right and important that we can have a wider debate on the future of europe. if we want to start this debate off right, we should, like the schoolchildren in brussels and the posts on the website, ask the fundamental questions about what tasks we want the union to take on and what role we want the union to play in europe and globally. we must be able to show our citizens that the eu is a strong force on the important issues: to deal with globalisation, for human rights and democracy, for a common asylum and immigration policy, for jobs and growth across europe, for fighting crime, and for the environment, sustainable development and food security. it is important that we start this debate with the issues that our citizens can identify with. i look forward to parliament's contribution to this work, because it is you members who have the direct contacts with your constituents across europe. this house has so often been at the forefront of the important european debate on openness, the environment, enlargement and the charter of fundamental rights, to name just a few. it is now time to move from discussing form to discussing substance as well. then, of course, it is also important to return to the question of how best to reform the institutions and the way the union works. let me say first of all that the community method, which has played such an important role in european cooperation, will of course continue to have a strong position, even if in some areas we complement it with the new open method of coordination. a strong europe is built on strong institutions. i myself noticed this when i was minister for the environment and worked very closely with both the commission and parliament. let me also say that we on the swedish side are open to the question of the form of further preparations. i can see both the advantages and the disadvantages of the "convention" which several actors have put forward as an important or possible model in the debate. madam president, i would like to thank you. we are at the beginning of a very exciting process. the future of europe is now being discussed throughout the union. it is taking place today in thermonfeckin, ireland, next week in the canary islands, spain, the week after that in kiruna, in the far north of sweden, and the following day in sparta, greece. this parliament will next week, as the first of a series of measures, organise a meeting with the participation of the parliaments of the member states and the candidate countries. i look forward to that debate next week. the commission will make important contributions later this year through its white paper on european governance. i myself will also be taking up this discussion in the general affairs council and with the candidate countries in connection with the informal meeting of foreign ministers in nyköping. sweden will also initiate a conference on the eu's external role in the autumn. each country will of course have to have a national debate in the light of its own traditions and circumstances. we have a responsibility to ensure that there is a broad debate involving also the national parliaments and addressing the issues and organisations which are relevant in our respective countries. what i have said so far applies, of course, only to the very first initiatives. the process will continue, and participants will inspire each other. the swedish and belgian presidencies, the european parliament and the commission share the main responsibility for this first phase, which requires close and trusting cooperation. the internal debate in parliament will be interesting to follow. the preliminary signals we have received are exciting, and i look forward to the resolution from this house scheduled for may. a report on the issues ahead will be presented to the european council in gothenburg in june. the european council will then take a position on the continuation of the process at its laeken/brussels summit in december. madam president, i would like to thank you. what kind of europe do we, the citizens of europe, want? the question is asked. let the debate begin! robert schuman once said that europe is not created by a coup, nor by a single structure, but by concrete results. it is important that we remember that today too. let us now begin the debate, starting with all the debaters from the days of schuman onwards, and including all the young people who are speaking to us today through european schools or participating in the debate on the website. i now look forward to hearing the members' visions for the future of europe.
commission. - madam president, madam minister, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we too would like to hear the proposals and suggestions of the members, but if you will allow me, i should like to give you in a few moments the position of the european commission on this great debate which was promised in nice, early in the morning, even though the ink of the agreement was not yet dry, as if the heads of state and government were not really satisfied with everything they had just done after three days of negotiations. they therefore decided at the same time to call for a wider and deeper debate on the future of the european union. only a week ago the swedish presidency and the future belgian presidency invited parliament and the commission to engage in this debate. in general, ladies and gentlemen, the commission wishes and will encourage this debate on european issues. it has already structured its approach a year ago, you must remember, by proposing with you and with your support the dialogue on europe, which was only a first step. but in order for this debate to achieve the objectives set out in the joint declaration signed on 7 march by nicole fontaine, your president, göran persson, guy verhofstadt and romano prodi, to highlight the challenges for the future of the union and to generate proposals, it is necessary to define the principles, the method and the agenda. let us take the time, in the few weeks ahead, to work on these principles, this method and this agenda. this is and will be the subject of a joint effort by us, in particular parliament and the commission, throughout the swedish and belgian presidencies, because we must achieve a high level of ambition in laeken on this debate and the future reform. first, a basic principle: the content of the debate, the future of the union, must be the inspiration for its form and remain its priority. what kind of europe do we want tomorrow? what do we want to do together? what 's our plan ? do we want more integration or not? do we want more political europe or not? i would add another question: how can the community model be renewed? although it may seem difficult to provide simple answers to these complex questions, and perhaps because it is difficult, the debate must allow citizens to become aware of them, to participate in them. the first principle is therefore that of transparency, of objectivity, with which this debate must be conducted without refusing, and on the contrary encouraging, the expression of contradictory opinions - and we are well aware that in each of our member states opinions are diverse and often contradictory - even if, to respect this principle of transparency, it is necessary to ask - as i have just said - troubling questions. the second principle is proximity. such a reflection cannot be properly initiated by being conducted only from brussels or strasbourg. the internet is certainly here, and it is an indispensable tool for information and dialogue, and this debate is already taking place on the website, although i admit that it is still imperfect. however, dialogue via the internet is not enough. the european debate must be open to people where they live, work and study, and to their elected representatives, whether national or territorial. it must therefore naturally take place at european level, but first and foremost it must be based on debates in each member state, at the most appropriate level, which in my view is the level closest to the citizen. if the community institutions can help to organise them, and the commission is playing and will play its part in this, then these national debates must first be organised by the member states. the third principle could be that of anticipation. even if the candidate countries are not yet members of the union, it will take very few years for them to become members. the future of this union therefore concerns them as much as it does the present member states. and i think we have to find a way and make sure that they are present in the debate, that they are actively involved in it. after the principles, ladies and gentlemen, the method. the final decision-making stage, which we hope will be as short as possible, as you have said, madam minister, of this reflection, will of course be an intergovernmental conference in 2004. we hope to do so as soon as possible in 2004, as president romano prodi has suggested. it is only in this way, with an intergovernmental conference as provided for in the treaties, that the treaties can be reformed or changed. this is, as we know, the only possible method. but we also know that this future igc must be prepared carefully and, no doubt, in a different way from what was done for the previous igcs, in amsterdam or nice. the issues raised in the public debate will have to be translated into concrete proposals for revising the treaties. the structure or the competent body will, in our view, have to be inspired precisely by the model or the precedent of the convention, which, within a few months, gave the european union a charter of fundamental rights, solemnly proclaimed in nice. in other words, it must be a structure or an institution not only for debate but also for work and proposals, bringing together the various sources of democratic legitimacy in europe: representatives of the member states, the european parliament, national parliaments and the european commission. having said that, there are still many questions that remain open. what will be the decision-making procedures of this body or of this future convention? what will its composition be, and in particular the place to be reserved for the representatives of the candidate countries? what will be his mandate? should this preparation follow the public debate or is it desirable to carry it out in parallel throughout the process leading to the igc? the commission is very attentive to the answers which the european parliament is proposing and will be proposing to these various questions of procedure. and we're working on it ourselves. i also believe, madam president, that our proposals, yours and ours, must and will have to be adjusted to each other as precisely as possible in the light of the laeken european council. and so i think we must now intensify the joint work between our two institutions, in consultation of course with the two presidencies, the swedish and the belgian. to this end, it will also be essential that the structure for reflection is not a place reserved for experts only, but a permeable structure, open to external contributions. finally, i should like to say a word about the principles and method of the agenda for this debate. throughout the last few years and during this very long cycle of institutional negotiations, which began in maastricht and ended, at least temporarily, in nice, parliament and the commission have always joined forces to ensure that real reform can take place. and i would like at this point, madam president, to pay tribute and thank you, and in particular president napolitano and the members of the constitutional committee, for the intelligent effort we have made together in close cooperation. this was particularly true, i think, at the last igc, where parliament had wished, in its resolutions of november 1999 and february 2000, that a comprehensive institutional reform be discussed, in the same spirit as the commission had expressed its wish. it seems to me that we must keep this convergence intact today, even if we have to, beyond our joint work, open doors and windows, reach out, listen, participate in a wider debate. if we are to take stock of all the challenges facing the future of the union, the next igc cannot be satisfied with examining only the four subjects mentioned in the annex to the treaty of nice, which are constitutional subjects. it could be, especially since it must be said frankly that some of these four subjects - i see at least two of them - can have, depending on how they are approached, a negative or even regressive effect on the level of integration of the union. so we should not be afraid to address these four topics and not just address these four topics. however, with regard to these four themes - simplification of the treaties, the legal scope of the charter, the articulation of competences, the place of national parliaments in the european architecture - let us be careful not to weaken the community acquis or the community method, depending on how we approach them. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a successful transition from public debate to the necessarily more technical and precise discussions of the next igc would be a guarantee of success in achieving a more ambitious reform than that achieved in nice. it would also be an effective remedy against the fears and all the demagogies that underlie or support these fears, which some are agitating to hold back the progress of european construction. for these two reasons at least, which may be of crucial importance as the enlargement of the union approaches, the european commission, its president and all the members of the college will be fully committed to bringing to life this great debate promised by the heads of state and government in nice. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our group very much welcomes this debate with the council and the commission this morning. it is no secret that we in parliament, and especially our group, agree with the commission on these matters to a large extent, and i believe that this is very important for the success of what we have undertaken together. but i would also like to expressly say to you, madam president of the council, after perhaps some irritation in the last few weeks, which is quite natural, but quite common in the political sphere, a word of appreciation and respect for the tone and atmosphere which you have brought to the debate this morning. i believe that this inner attitude towards the future of europe and cooperation between the institutions can be a good basis if words are followed by deeds. before we turn to the future, however, i would like to say something, and that is a request to the swedish presidency in particular, but also to the council, which is now represented by the swedish presidency. sweden is known for, and we appreciate that about sweden, that transparency, openness is a characteristic of your very nice country. but also use this basic consideration of openness and transparency to change something in the council, to make the council more transparent in relation to the other institutions. (applause from the centre) i'm not saying this as a criticism, just a description. i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his excellent report, which has been very helpful to me in the course of the debate. we felt the lack yesterday in a resolution, in decisions on legislation - this is not a criticism of the swedish presidency - that the council was not present. we would like to hear the council's views, and that is why i am sure that our president, with the support of this house, will also negotiate with the council new rules on how we can ensure a greater presence of the council here in the european parliament. it is certainly not too much to ask of a presidency which lasts only six months, to expect to be here in the plenary not just for a day, but for two or three days, to discuss the common tasks. (applause from the centre) now to the post-nice process. first of all, if you're looking to the future, you have to be honest. nice was not the big hit, i don't want to go into it again, but you have to say it. that is why i am critical, and only critical, of a letter from the swedish prime minister on 7 march, which i very much welcome in itself, in which he says that nice represents a strong institutional basis for the future of the european union. we do not think that is the case and we continue to criticise that. we also ask you to have the courage to say it, as president chirac, the president of france, said it here as president of the council, when he said that the intergovernmental conference was no longer the appropriate means to launch a reform of the european union. this is a fact which must be recognized by all the governments of the european union, and if this fact is recognized, then we can also find the right methodology, and i would like to turn to this methodology. i was pleased to hear, madam president, that if i am less directed towards commissioner barnier, it is because we agree with him on a large scale, that you are open about the methodology, including the methodology of a convention. i would like to inform you that our party, the european people's party, has proposed, on the proposal of our group here in parliament, a preparatory conference which will then submit a proposal to the governments. this conference was to begin its work in 2002. the methodology will not be decided during your presidency, but it is important that you open the way to laeken a little. that's where the decisions will have to be made. we believe that a preparatory conference of members of the european parliament, members of national parliaments, governments and other personalities is a transparent instrument. there is much talk of a so-called steering committee. a steering committee would make sense if it were a kind of executive committee of this conference, but it would be fully integrated into this conference, and certainly the position of the chairman or chairmen will also play an important role, as was the case with the convention on fundamental rights chaired by former german president roman herzog. if you want to get a good result, the methodology has to be reasonable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. such a conference could begin its work in 2002. the conference could work until autumn 2003 and then make a proposal to the governments, and then, if possible, there should be a conference of governments at the end of 2003 and not in 2004, which would then have a say on these proposals in a short period of time, so that a new treaty could then be ready for signature in the spring of 2004 under the irish presidency, so that we do not get too involved in the european elections and do not enter the phase where the commission's mandate also expires. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am very grateful to you for having reminded us of one of the great models of europe, and of our group in particular, because he was the representative of the community method. and it is the small countries that benefit from the community methodology, because when the big countries decide intergovernmentally alone, the small countries are left behind, and that is why it is important that we adopt the community methodology. europe must be strong, europe must be able to act, europe must be democratic and transparent, and if you follow robert schuman, you are on the right track! (applause from the centre)
- madam president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, mr commissioner! you know that many members of this house are critical of the treaty of nice. my group and i are also deeply concerned about the future of the union. because many of the issues that shape people's daily concerns and needs remain unresolved or are only half-heartedly addressed. we are still a long way from a social europe in particular. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the council will take a decision on the matter. the governments have fought to preserve their national veto rights. the treaty did not bring more democracy, more transparency, more power of action and decision. that is why post-nice must embark on an ambitious and truly profound reform, a reform that achieves two things. firstly, it must not undo the progress made in integration - and here i expressly share the concerns expressed by commissioner barnier. secondly, we need a reform that actually makes the union sustainable. in my view, this means that a constitutional-like process must be initiated, the result of which will be a united europe constituted by the will of its peoples. this involves a broad public, open debate. but it also means that, in my view, the igc is no longer the appropriate means of moving europe forward. we need a different method. as a member of the convention on the charter of fundamental rights, and with experience of the successful work of this body, i would like to expressly advocate a convention procedure to promote this europe together.
mr brok, you have the floor for two and a half minutes. you said it was three, but if i give you two and a half, it's always going to be at least three! (parliament adopted the resolution) i am grateful for the signal. i think we have to recognise that we have a broad discussion process ahead of us in which it will become clear that the intergovernmental approach, led by the council, is not working in the face of 27 member states and that therefore, through the executive leadership of the commission and the equal legislative power of parliament, the classic monnet approach will be the only one that will be able to create the capacity to act within the european union. but, madam president-in-office, your reference to the european parliament's proposals as something to look forward to makes me suspicious. the european parliament does not have to make proposals here, but if i read the nice paper correctly, the council, parliament and the commission are to shape the whole debate together. this means that we are not your suppliers but the joint organisers of this broad european dialogue. i do not think that this has been guaranteed in the preparations so far, which seems to me to be a little bit revealing. i think we have to look at three stages: the broad public debate, which will be conducted by the three institutions jointly and which will take place during this year and next, but which must also accompany the whole process to the end. the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in copenhagen, and i am sure that the council will take account of the views expressed by the european parliament in this regard. i would point out that since hungary and the czech republic will already be using the enlargement treaties to deal with institutional matters, especially because of the lack of votes in the european parliament for these countries, the creation of better decision-making capacities in the council should also be reflected in these enlargement negotiations and that is why the enlargement negotiations are also part of the post-nice process. i would also like to return to the question of how the timetable should be set. i am concerned, as are a number of colleagues, to complete it in 2004 in the middle of the european elections. i think that it would be good to use this year and next year for the broad public process, but to start the convention in the second half of next year, so as to have the whole of 2003 available for negotiations and to conclude them at the end of 2003 or at the latest at the beginning of 2004, so that the result can become part of the debate on the european election campaign. i think that this could also lead to a public plebiscite on the outcome and, in a way, conclude the dialogue by expressing the will of the citizens of this european union. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. madam president, you used the word 'strong' three times in your speech. the eu must be a strong force, the community method must be strong, and we need strong institutions. i agree with you completely. but then, your words must be followed by action! for the post-nice agenda, what you have said means more europe, not less europe. it means more integration, not less integration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the division of powers often gives the impression that there are forces at work which want to weaken europe. i think you have the task of saying what we want to do together, what we must do together in the 21st century to have a strong europe. the debate on competence then becomes quite different from what some people hear. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the subject for me is the realisation of parliamentary democracy in european politics. that means that not only the role and function of the national parliaments is to be discussed, but also, of course, the further strengthening of the european parliament. we still lack some rights that we need, in legislation, in budgeting and also in the control of the executive. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. you said very cryptically that the method has advantages and disadvantages. i'd like to know what the disadvantages are and for whom. i was a member of the charter convention. i couldn't find any disadvantages. i've only discovered advantages. i therefore ask you to write in your report in gothenburg that the new method is called a new convention which prepares this intergovernmental conference. final word on the timetable. i also think 2004 is totally inappropriate. we are in a position to complete this by the end of 2003. a new treaty of rome would then perhaps also be the right basis for the european elections in 2004 and the good basis for the enlargement which we will then carry out. (applause from the centre)
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed.
- i admire all the colleagues who have so much time to surf the internet. i wish i could do the same. (laughter)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. europe has a good chance of achieving its great lisbon goal of becoming the most competitive area with full employment. the economic data are good, but this great goal will not happen by itself and will not be realized by itself. we must have the courage to set firm priorities. lisbon has defined clear guidelines for this courage to set firm priorities and to move forward in an open method of coordination between member states. this guideline is clear and unambiguous. it means investing in people and their abilities. we have good reason to do so. on the one hand, we are talking about the new opportunities offered by information and communication technologies and the millions of jobs that they can create. but on the other hand, we have less than 22% of our employees who receive targeted training for this purpose. we are talking about the opportunities of a new european labour market and the mobility of the young generation, and we are not able to create the appropriate conditions in our schools and in our vocational training. we talk about the fact that we already have bottlenecks in the skilled labour markets, but we are not able to provide a targeted integration policy to enable those who are unemployed - well over 14 million in the european union - to make an independent contribution to working life. i ask you, mr prodi, and i ask you, madam president of the council: the stability pact has been mentioned here and it is said to have been successful. why do we not manage, with the same rigidity, with the same clarity in the method of open coordination, to ensure that every young person on the european labour market gets his fair chance of a fair start into a new european future? this is the task for stockholm, this is the task for the follow-up summits, and this is precisely why stockholm must not become a unilateral liberalisation summit. i know that the balance we're talking about is in jeopardy. i therefore appeal to you, madam president-in-office, to find the strength and the courage in the swedish presidency to put into practice this integrated policy approach of economic reform, social cohesion and employment promotion, which we welcome. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply. the question is the liberalization of postal services. madam president, you have raised this. but the postal services are an example of how inefficient the council meetings are. the lisbon summit decided to speed up the liberalization of postal services. we in the european parliament have completed our opinion before the end of the year, hoping that the council would reach a common position by the end of the year. what happened? what happened? nothing happened to you! the council has not adopted a common position. the council has not yet adopted a common position. in germany, it is even decided to extend the postal monopoly because of the european standstill. we ask you, madam president, to ensure that at the stockholm summit the heads of state or government immediately instruct the ministers responsible to proceed with the post-liberalisation dossier. only then can we prove that the council meetings are actually making sense and are moving forward. the council has already decided on a second point: the heads of state or government must evaluate structural policy, and quickly. we must achieve a reform of structural policy by 2003 at the latest for two reasons. firstly, structural policy is of major importance for labour market policy in many countries, and secondly, we must tell the applicant countries what they expect for the new period when they join after 2005/06. in this respect, madam president of the council, let the summit actually decide something concrete: the liberalization of postal services and the evaluation of the structural funds so that we can move forward for the period after 2006. i thank my colleagues for their attention. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. at the lisbon summit, the european union was far beyond its ambitions. the council decided to create the world's most dynamic economic area. it's been a year. are we any closer to the plans? we have certainly become more competitive, including in new technologies. many structural reforms have been undertaken in the member states. unemployment has been reduced in many, but by no means all, areas. the economic and social cohesion of the regions has not yet been sufficiently achieved. we expect the swedish presidency to take an initiative to develop intelligent tools to analyse the qualitative and quantitative progress. benchmarking and gender statistics are to be used to produce findings to be evaluated annually. what we do not need is the adoption of the swedish social model for europe. what we need instead is effective measures to increase employability, to improve the skills of both young workers and women who want to return to working life, and of the longterm unemployed. the social partners are to be involved in the process of integration into working life and the prevention of discrimination in employment and occupation must be a priority. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must work and act across generations, and we must convince young people that it is worthwhile to work together with the elderly on this project, that social security systems are being created that are also financiable, and that means again that balanced budgets must be created in the member states. for all this we need the full support of the social partners, anne van lancker is right, but we also need agreements between them and the ngos, the representatives of civil society and of course the european parliament.
- mr president, i have to go. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am grateful for the opportunity to have this debate today, because the triad of conflict prevention, civilian crisis management and military capability is seen in a larger context and, of course, we must ensure that conflict prevention and civilian crisis management are given high priority. all three things are related. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not affected by the conflict. on the other hand, the development of our capacity to prevent conflicts and manage crises is a condition for us never having to resort to military means. that's why this is so important. the cologne, helsinki and feira decisions and the conditions created in nice give clear mandates to advance the civilian aspects of crisis management, including the development of capacities for planning and conducting police operations, cooperation with the united nations and the issues of coherence and efficiency in improving the union's policy in this area. we have become aware, and we are becoming aware again and again, that the present artificial division of responsibilities - that part of it is the commission and part the high commissioner - is damaging us in the long term, and in the long term the council should consider whether the vice-president of the commission with special relations to the council could not take the lead on this issue in a unified manner, in order to achieve a higher degree of coherence between these three areas on this basis. it is also about the fact that we want to see the extent to which the various capacities are present in the institutions of the european union. we must improve the information and analysis capacity of the european union. i believe that we should not build duplicate structures but should pool the resources of the council, the commission, the member states and other bodies to bring about real benefits. i do not want to go into all the details, but i think it is also very important in this context that the commission should take a greater initiative in these areas and play a central role in formulating crisis prevention and management, in order to create political awareness that the skills can be concentrated in one hand. we expressly call on the member states to provide the necessary capacity and resources to ensure that the european union is ready to act quickly in the four areas defined in feira, which requires, among other things, the prior definition of specific objectives, possibly in conjunction with a timetable, as was the case with the discussion on police forces. we see from the example of kosovo how necessary it is that we have these capabilities, but that we can also act under unified leadership and coordination. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the council of ministers, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why we attach great importance to making progress here. it is certainly also necessary that we coordinate with organizations such as the un, the osce, the council of europe, financial institutions such as the imf and the world bank, and non-governmental organizations. i have to remind you of the status quo here, that the old adage still applies in the context of kosovo: we must now finally find the coordinator for the coordinators. i believe that there is still a great deal of work to be done here and that, in view of the problems associated with this, particularly for individuals, we must also overcome the difficulties, hierarchies of competence and vanities between the institutions in order to develop here the european capacities which will enable us to ensure and contribute to peace and freedom not only within the european union but also on the margins of the european union.
the council. mr president, mr brok and other members! first of all, i would like to thank mr brok for raising this important issue. i would also like to take this opportunity to give a broad answer to the swedish presidency's view of the work on prevention within the union. "all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights". thus begins the united nations universal declaration of human rights - the cornerstone of our work for the freedom, security and dignity of the individual. in war and armed conflict, as we know, all basic principles are destroyed. rather, it is the right of the strong to prevail by force of arms and oppression. the 20th century was the century of war, with world wars and wars in the middle east and the balkans. each time the alarm bells rang, but the international community was usually too late. now we can show that we have learned from the past. by actively working to prevent armed conflict, we can help make this century something different. the eu has a key role to play here. let me quote what hume said in parliament when he was awarded the nobel peace prize: "let us not forget that the eu is the best example of conflict resolution we know of in the history of the world". today, conflict prevention is also a central part of the emerging european security and defence policy. the esdp, security and defence policy, rests on three pillars: military crisis management, civilian crisis management and conflict prevention. these are closely related. at the same time, prevention is different from military and civilian crisis management because it is not about responding to an already flared-up crisis, but about promoting in good time the fundamental values we have agreed on: children going to school instead of going to war and democracy at all levels. the eu has a very large number of instruments that can be used to prevent armed conflict and manage crises. we must use them in a more deliberate and coherent way, both in the field and in brussels. these issues must involve the whole union and all the institutions. we already know that the eu can make a significant contribution. our unarmed monitors in presovo and the police mission in albania are just two examples. the experience of the balkans has clearly shown that conflict prevention must be based on a long-term commitment. the root causes of armed conflict must be eliminated. development cooperation therefore plays a central role. the decision by the commission and the development council to integrate prevention into development cooperation is central and must now be translated into practical guidelines for projects and programmes. it is about strengthening human rights and democracy in the long term and about how crisis management and disaster relief are integrated into development cooperation. the commission's forthcoming communications on conflict prevention, human rights and democracy, and disaster relief, reconstruction and development will therefore be significant. we also need to detect potential conflicts earlier. for example, water issues are often a source of conflict today. but we can also see right next to us a telling example of how the eu can make resources of common interest generate cooperation and development. the river that runs through strasbourg used to be a poisoned watercourse, a border. now it's a shared ferry and a source of fish. the eu must also develop sustainable and effective partnerships with other key actors. we are now seeking to establish a long-term close cooperation at all levels between the eu and the un. similarly, we are strengthening relations with the osce. in africa, we want to work with the subregional organisations sadc, igad and ecowas, which also work in conflict prevention and crisis management, to help them build capacity and support local processes. the ecowas light weapons moratorium is a good example. we are also setting up a joint expert group on conflict prevention with canada and developing contacts with the g8. of course, cooperation with others must be driven by real needs and comparative advantages. when i recently visited the south caucasus with patten and solana, it was obvious to build on the knowledge and presence of the osce and the council of europe in the region. we are now discussing how the eu, together with the osce, can develop the monitoring of the border with the north caucasus. the troika's visits to the caucasus in february and to israel and gaza yesterday and the day before are also examples of the eu's role in conflict prevention. i would also like to stress that relations with civil society and ngos are crucial to our success. mr president, i would like to thank you. there has been a request for a council statement on the situation in the northern fyrom, and i would like to take this as an example of how the eu can work: we have for some years been trying to prevent conflicts through unarmed monitors, through assistance for political and economic reforms and central and local institutions, through the trade and cooperation agreement of 1998 and through the stabilisation and association agreement which is expected to be signed shortly. on 22 february, the first reports of the entry of albanian armed groups into the north of fyrom were received. their aims are unclear, but there was clear opposition to the ratification of the border agreement recently signed between fyrom and fry. to prevent further unrest, the eu and the local presidency in skopje established a close dialogue with the fyrom government. the troika called the leading albanian parties together and urged them to vote in favour of ratifying the border agreement, which a majority did. following the clashes, the mine explosion and the exchange of fire, the eu condemned the violent attacks and called on all parties, in particular the representatives of the albanian minority in fyrom, to renounce the violence. we have said that closer cooperation is important and we have also welcomed cooperation between kfor, unmik and the authorities of the fyrom and expressed support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the fyrom, but at the same time called for restraint. the important message to the public has been that the future of the fyrom lies in a rapprochement with europe and the eu and that stability and security are an important precondition for this. the will of the people of the balkans to integrate and cooperate with europe allows the eu to play an important role also an important opinion-forming role. mr president, i would like to thank you. we have started an important process in implementing the proposals put forward by the commission and the high representative in their report to nice and hope to move forward and adopt a conflict prevention programme in gothenburg in june. in preparing for that programme we will of course study carefully the proposals from parliament, including the important lalumière resolution of last year as well as the resolution which will be adopted tomorrow. let me conclude by saying a few words about other aspects of cooperation in the field of security and defence policy. i have not touched on military capability today, but i believe it plays an important role. the knowledge of the eu's military capabilities also plays an important role in prevention. as regards civilian crisis management, we must move forward with what the european council has said civilian police, judiciary, civil administration and the emergency services. we're working hard to turn the goal of 5,000 officers into concrete results. member states have been invited to notify their national contributions. a first reconciliation will take place in may. we are investing a lot of energy in developing the capacity to plan and lead police operations and in common standards for, among other things, equipment and training. furthermore, we have started work on the other capacity areas strengthening the judiciary and civil administration in times of crisis and conflict, and the council working group on emergency services is developing concrete objectives in its field. we know that armed conflict damages all the vital functions of a society. crisis management must therefore include support for everything from justice to waste management. human rights, international agreements and humanitarian principles must be upheld, not least as regards safe access to help those affected. we therefore also want to initiate the discussion of other areas of capacity than those we have identified previously. observers and experts on human rights and disarmament are examples of this. of course, we must also resolve the question of how to achieve effective cooperation between the civilian and military crisis management. we almost always solve these issues together in the field. if i were to depart from this debate in advance, i would like to emphasize that it is in no way because i am not interested in hearing the views of all members of parliament. i am going to murmansk to discuss the important nuclear safety issues in northern russia, and it is not so easy to get to murmansk.
commission. – i note what the honourable gentleman says about the difficulty of getting to strasbourg rather than murmansk but i suppose one difference is that you cannot get to strasbourg by nuclear submarine. it is a great privilege for me to follow on from the minister with whom i have spent a good deal of time on troika visits in the last few weeks, i guess dealing with conflict prevention, and it is a pleasure to take part in the debate launched by the honourable gentleman. we last exchanged words in the same general direction in washington a few days ago. he has raised an important debate. perhaps i can be excused if i can take a few moments more than my allotted five to begin with and shave that off anything i say at the end of the debate. i will not come back at the end of the debate unless there are specific questions which people wish me to respond to, in which case of course i would be delighted to do so, not least in the minister's absence in murmansk. as the minister reminded us, the european union is not new to the whole field of conflict prevention, crisis management and post-conflict reconstruction. we recognise that conflict prevention and crisis management are long-term undertakings. all of our regional cooperation programmes, cards, the alure latin america programme, phare, meda, tacis and so on, the cotonou agreement as well as our pre-accession strategies and stabilisation, association and cooperation agreements with third countries – all of them contain conflict prevent and crisis management provisions. rehabilitation programmes such as that in rwanda after the genocide, economic reconstruction programmes such as that in kosovo today, bilateral aid programmes built on peace agreements such as those in guatemala and el salvador are practical examples of how we are helping every day to prevent conflict and to build peace around the world. no one disputes that recent history in the balkans, in africa and elsewhere has taught us that we need to equip ourselves better to try to prevent the outbreak of violent conflict and to react more effectively when it occurs. we have taken some important new initiatives in relation to conflict prevention. last december the commission and the high representative jointly presented a report to the nice council with recommendations for improvements. we focused in particular on developing better methods of analysis, closer coordination within the union and more effective coordination with our international partners – and this follows a point that my honourable friend made – especially the united nations and the osce. we are now working with the high representative to follow up the recommendations of the nice report. we are looking at the development of conflict indicators and early warning systems so that we can focus our attention much better on countries or regions in difficulty. we are also examining how cfsp instruments such as political dialogue can be adapted so that they are more robust, flexible and timely. the commission is working with the presidency on the action programme which the presidency, as the minister made clear, will present at the european council meeting in june. the commission is also preparing a communication on conflict prevention which we will present to the council in april. this communication will focus particularly on addressing the root causes of conflict through community external aid and development instruments. we will put forward proposals, for example, to build the objectives of peace and democratic stability more clearly into our assistance programmes. we will place greater emphasis in future on support for the building of stable institutions and the rule of law including, of course, the police and the administration of justice. we will also ensure through our assistance programmes that we take account of indicators of political exclusion, ethnic, social or regional marginalisation, environmental degradation or other factors which can contribute to violent conflict. we intend to contribute to international initiatives, for example through the g8 and the oecd, on issues such as international crime, the diamond trade, drug-trafficking and child soldiers. we have also to exploit to the full other means such as trade policy instruments and trade and cooperation agreements, or our skills on border-management police training, customs assistance missions – which have been such a success in the balkans – or expertise in migration, social or environmental policy. i look forward to returning to this parliament to present the communication once it has been finalised. but i am acutely conscious that while we are working on these issues, events in the real world are not put on hold. in southern serbia and on kosovo's borders with macedonia we have a real-life example of a crisis that needs managing, as the minister said, and a further conflict that must be prevented. let me be clear. what is happening on these two borders threatens, if it is not tackled firmly and rapidly, to reverse much of the recent, very heartening progress that has been made in the region. it threatens fresh conflict, fresh instability, just as we were putting those things behind us in the balkans. plainly, the straight military security issues involved are for the council, and above all for nato, not for the european commission. i know how hard the presidency, the minister and my colleague, javier solana, have been working on these issues, as has nato. i very much welcome the cease-fire negotiated on monday in the presevo valley. i very much hope that it will hold. however, i have been determined that the commission should contribute as rapidly and fully as possible to support the wider efforts to tackle this crisis both in southern serbia and on the fyrom border. as parliament may know, we have already announced that we were prepared to provide about eur 1 million in assistance for southern serbia, for the presevo valley. we have made available another eur 900 000 and agreed on 24 projects with deputy prime minister covic of serbia and with the local mayor. the 24 projects are in areas like improvement of water and improvement of schools, which we are prepared to undertake as well. that raises our immediate assistance to almost eur 2 million. i think that is the right way to support deputy prime minister covic's commitment to try to resolve these issues through dialogue rather than conflict. we are also prepared to put some of the eur 240 million that we are providing for serbia in reconstruction assistance this year to doing more in the presevo valley. we still have a long way to go in improving our capacity to respond to crises in the short term. i would characterise the challenges we face under three headings. first, we have to react more quickly in crisis situations. the commission is responding to this challenge. as parliament knows we are engaged in a process of the reform of our external aid, which will mean that we are able to deliver assistance more rapidly and more efficiently across the whole range of community aid programmes. last month, on our initiative, the council also adopted the regulation establishing a rapid-reaction mechanism. second, we must be able to deploy appropriate personnel in sufficient numbers, which is a real difficulty and a challenge for all of us. the rapid-reaction mechanism will give the commission the possibility to do this and we will shortly start to negotiate framework contracts for this purpose with member states, international organisations, ngos and others. the major problem we face in this area, however, is the lack of suitably qualified and available personnel in the member states. it is a problem faced not just by the union but also by the un, osce and other bodies engaged in international peace missions. in the commission's view, the best way to build up the union's capacity in this field is by developing common recruitment standards and training programmes. the commission is encouraging member states to work together and with the un and osce in this area, and is prepared to support such training programmes from community funds. third and last, we have to develop more effective coordination. in the commission's view, effective crisis management does not necessarily require major changes in existing decision-making procedures laid down in the treaty. it requires the establishment of improved mechanisms for day-to-day coordination at headquarters level, in the field, and between the field and headquarters. for its part, the commission is engaged in reorganising itself internally in order to ensure better coordination of community instruments in crisis situations. the commission has established a conflict prevention and crisis management unit. within that unit the commission intends to establish a crisis management cell, which will coordinate various community initiatives and provide a focal point for the council situation centre. the crisis management cell should be operational by the summer. furthermore, in the context of the on-going debate in the council on crisis management procedures, we have suggested to council that the coordinating mechanism provided for in the conclusions of the helsinki european council should be relaunched. we are prepared to play our full part in the functioning of this mechanism. finally, with regard to both conflict prevention and civilian crisis management, the commission intends to play, in full association with the work of the council's political and security committee, an active role in helping to take forward efforts in this area with the council. we want to work with the high representative, the policy unit and the council secretariat in this spirit. we will work closely with parliament, as well as the council, on these issues. we will certainly keep parliament fully informed. i very much hope that the communication which we bring forward in april will provide a focus for a debate which gives us the opportunity to bring together in a more creative and constructive way the responsibilities with which the commission is charged, the responsibilities which we have agreed to share on a europe-wide level. we can take initiatives in this field which are not available to others and if we do that constructively we will make a reality of the construction of a common foreign and security policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to apologize to my colleague doris pack, our chief expert on the crisis region. she's on her way to sarajevo and asked me to represent her here now. in fact, in the crisis region, we have very acutely returned to the terms 'civilian crisis management' and 'conflict prevention', and we hope that we will not have to use the third option, namely to demonstrate our military capabilities, in an acute way. there are both positive and very recent negative developments in the region, and i believe that both are taken into account in the compromise resolution of parliament which we shall be voting on tomorrow. i would like to make a positive observation: in recent years, peace has indeed been maintained in macedonia, and the georgijevski government has made a special contribution by including the representatives of the albanian minority in the coalition. if you look a little closer, you will see that this is not just a formal matter, but that many important positions in macedonia are occupied by members of the local minority. the more so our commitment to stabilize this country, and it is good to hear that now on the fifth day relative calm has returned, including in tanusevci, the place that was temporarily occupied by kla extremists. but let me make another point in this context. croatia has also made positive progress and the current croatian government, mesi, is not suspected of supporting croatian extremists in herzegovina who want to undermine the prosperous development of the community in bosnia-herzegovina and try to create something of their own there, unlike its predecessor. in this respect, the call for hdz in herzegovina is also justified, but it is not bound by these trends. we have allowed yugoslav troops to patrol the presevo valley again to keep the kla extremists in check there as a sign of trust - and i believe it is a legitimate sign of trust - in the new yugoslav government, and in return nato has also increased border controls. i think that's an important point. but what do we have to do if we ask the local representatives in kosovo and the local authorities to fight the extremists? i think it is important to say in this context that we must strengthen the legitimacy of moderate forces in kosovo, and we are strengthening mr rugowa - to name one - by allowing elections to take place in kosovo. i think that's an important political point. otherwise, the ccp can claim that it has more influence than it actually does. if we move in this direction, then i think it is a good development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, madam president of the council! the cost of peace is much lower than the cost of war. this underlines the central importance of non-military conflict prevention in foreign policy. the kosovo conflict has given us an example of this. the costs of the post-war period are shaking the eu budget every time. it is many times more than what the 2000 osce observers or a stability programme in the early 1990s would have cost the kosovo region. the example of kosovo also shows us that civilian conflict management must start early. it takes time, and it's not spectacular. conflict prevention today requires not only political instruments but also economic instruments, social measures and environmental measures. the eu has this potential. it could play a major role in preventing and managing conflicts in the world. it has the largest single market, it has economic strength, it can plan economic cooperation. it has a wide range of historical and cultural experience and a diplomatic corps at the international level, but it is not the greatest conflict-preventionist in the world, because it divides this size into 15 plus 1 with small-scale interests, and that is the main problem. the european union needs a european centre, a commission and a ... (the president withdrew the floor.)
mr president, the committee on economic and monetary affairs welcomes the report by the wise men and has underlined this in a resolution adopted unanimously. it is in the interests of the european union, in the interests of the three institutions, that we overcome the fragmentation of the european financial market and find solutions that meet the interests of industry, investors and consumers and contribute to the stability of the financial market in the context of globalisation. we therefore consider it important to speed up and make more efficient the legislation in this area. the three institutions must all contribute to this. the report by mr wise does not make clear how the relationship between the actors and the institutions should be shaped at the various levels, and therefore calls for a dialogue between the european institutions. the question therefore arises to the commission and the council, because it is not clear to the european parliament how the institutional balance here in the european union can be guaranteed within such a proposal. we have therefore drawn up proposals and are awaiting the council and commission's replies. unlike most member states or the united states, the treaty does not provide for the possibility of secondary legislation, not least because there is no executive body at community level to which these powers can be delegated. in addition, unlike the national parliaments, the european parliament has no right of initiative. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has already taken a number of important decisions, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its future work. this means that if clear links are established between political and technical matters within a framework legislation, the empowerment for implementation in the technical field and for adaptation to technological change must be designed as quickly as possible and this must also be underlined by giving the european parliament a clear right of recourse in the event of a breach of the empowerment or if the requirement of transparency is not respected, for example in the consultation. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i would say that if there is good will on the part of the council and the commission, this right of withdrawal could be incorporated into the 1999 comitology decision by a simple amendment, in the event that the european parliament considers that the securities committee has exceeded its powers and therefore needs to be corrected, either by the commission submitting a new proposal or by introducing the normal codecision procedure in this area. we in the european parliament are clearly calling for an interinstitutional agreement which makes clear that the basic principles and the clear distinction between political and technical implementation are regulated in the laws on a case-by-case basis. we are ready to support any acceleration - we can also use the fast track procedure in the parliamentary codecision procedure - and also to guarantee that there is maximum transparency. but i would appeal to the council and the commission to give us a clear answer today on what you are thinking about with a right of withdrawal from the european parliament or a similar procedure, because this is of central importance to us for our democratic responsibility in the european union.
the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am grateful for this opportunity to develop the council's position on the proposals in the report of the wise men, chaired by baron lamfalussy. we have already had many informal contacts between parliament and the council on this matter. i would like to take this opportunity to express the council's great appreciation of the work done by mrs randzio-plath as chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on this matter. it has been invaluable for the council and the presidency to be able to discuss this matter with you on an ongoing basis. as you are aware, the ecofin council discussed the proposals in the lamfalussy report at its meeting on 12 march 2001. the council welcomed the report, but discussions will continue. a new ecofin council will take place immediately before the stockholm summit. the presidency's ambition is to reach an agreement as soon as possible. the council considers that the functioning of financial markets is essential for the growth of the economy. it is therefore natural that this particular issue should be discussed in the context of the stockholm summit, which has as one of its objectives the modernisation of the european economy. the ability of financial markets to move capital between savings and investment, to manage payment systems and to allocate risks in a cost-effective manner is crucial for growth and employment. at the same time, we must ensure that markets provide good consumer protection and that they are stable. the financial and venture capital markets in the union must be integrated and made more efficient. the financial services and venture capital action plans provide a good basis for achieving precisely these objectives of integration and efficiency. the focus is on the implementation of the action plan. to keep to the timetable, we must make the necessary efforts now. we therefore believe that the institutions concerned and the member states should jointly review the legislative process in the financial area and make more effective use of its possibilities, so that important and necessary decisions can be reached more quickly. the council considers that community law governing the securities market must provide a degree of flexibility in order to meet developments and create a competitive community market, responsive to new international trends. the legislative process must be speeded up, but the limits of the treaty must of course be respected. this can and must be achieved while fully respecting the provisions of the treaty, the rights of the institutions concerned and the balance between them. the council broadly supports the four-level approach proposed by the wise men to make the regulatory process more flexible within the framework of the current treaty. i do not wish to comment today on the details of the future work of the securities committee. i would just like to emphasize that the council and the member states, as i said just now, are aware of the need to speed up the legislative procedure. the procedures the wise men proposed for making decisions on what are called levels 1 and 2 are not really new. they are based on existing possibilities, namely the full legislative procedure and implementation by committee. the basic rules and their effects are therefore well known in relation to the issues raised by mrs randzio-plath in her oral question. the commission is also proposing that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the basis of the recommendations of the european parliament. the legal framework for the delegation of implementing powers is clear from the treaty, the 1999 council decision on committee procedure, the case law of the court of justice of the european communities and the decision of the legislator when delegating implementing powers in each specific case. in all these areas, both the council and the european parliament follow already established rules. we are jointly obliged to comply with this legal framework. the co-decision procedure allows us to decide jointly, for each act, what is to be delegated to the committee procedure and according to certain rules. in addition, the new 1999 framework decision on committee procedure guarantees parliament a greater role than ever before, while guaranteeing a high degree of transparency. this new openness is beneficial and important for the european parliament but also, of course, for the general public. the european parliament shall be guaranteed full information at all times on the work of the securities committee and shall receive all documents relating thereto: agendas, draft measures, voting results, minutes of meetings and attendance lists. if parliament considers that the draft measures presented by the commission exceed the implementing powers of the basic instrument, the commission should review those measures without delay, taking utmost account of parliament's resolution. an independent committee of regulators will advise the commission in the preparation of draft implementing measures for the framework principles. for this system to work properly, all the institutions involved must act in good faith and respect the basic conditions for the multi-level approach proposed in the wise men's report. randzio-plath also asks me to ensure that 'the securities committee does not intervene to substantially alter or stop implementing provisions proposed by the commission' and to give political assurance as to the willingness of the council to speed up its procedures. i must emphasize the fundamental constitutional difference between the council as an institution and a committee of inquiry, which is made up of representatives of the member states themselves, and not of the council. this distinction is important and, as everyone knows, it is the basis of the whole structure of the committee procedure. i would like to emphasize that the main task of the securities committee will be to assist the commission in the exercise of its delegated powers in accordance with the committee procedure. as regards the council, i would like to repeat what i said earlier, namely that all the institutions concerned will have to act in good faith and respect the basic conditions of the report of the wise men. the structure proposed in the lamfalussy report respects the codecision procedure and the institutional balance established by the treaty. the council therefore considers that no further institutional framework is needed in this area. i would also like to mention that the ecofin council is in favour of the idea of setting up an interinstitutional monitoring system to evaluate the progress towards an integrated economic market and identify bottlenecks. regular reports could be submitted to the european parliament and the council as part of this monitoring process. in addition, the comprehensive and transparent review proposed for 2004 would allow us to evaluate the functioning of the system and to address any shortcomings. as i said, on 12 march the ecofin council welcomed the report and the proposed four-level strategy and made good progress in establishing the general rules for solving the institutional and organisational issues raised by the strategy. however, some questions remain. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy for the environment and sustainable development, which sets out the main priorities for the period 2007-13. the ecofin council has now called for further work on these issues, and i hope, as i said at the outset, that we can reach a comprehensive solution as soon as possible.
commission. – mr president, i wish to begin by saying that the commission broadly supports the main thrust of the report of the committee of wise men, chaired by mr lamfalussy. in order to achieve the integration of security markets by 2005, the commission considers that community legislation must become more efficient and flexible in order to respond rapidly to developments in financial markets. eu legislation must also be implemented swiftly and consistently, and enforced more rigorously. mrs randzio-plath has raised five main points on the commission's position on the report. i should like to try to answer all five, although perhaps in a slightly different order. first, on accountability and transparency of the process, i recall that the essential elements of an act must, according to the treaty and the jurisprudence, be defined by the legislators and therefore it will pass through the so-called level 1 normal codecision procedure. implementing measures, however, shall, in accordance with the comitology decision, be delegated to a level 2 process, as is clear to any person who has read the lamfalussy report. the commission shares the view that it is essential that consumers and industry are fully consulted on all such implementing measures affecting them. in adopting directives or regulations at level 1, the council and parliament will jointly define the scope of technical implementing measures by codecision, as has been stated, on a case-by-case basis. on level 2, the commission is also ready to consult widely with market participants and end-users in an open and transparent way before adopting tactical implementing measures. the commission also agrees that the european securities regulators' committee should carry out a full consultation process on draft implementing measures, with the european parliament being fully informed. as regards the commission’s right of initiative, i stress that the commission, in preparing its proposals for level 2 technical implementing measures, looks forward to benefiting from the technical expertise that the european union's regulators will bring – after all they are the experts in these matters. there can therefore be no question at all of the commission's right of initiative being affected by any such advice. the commission believes that encouraging european regulators to work in this way will also facilitate over time the convergence of regulatory structures throughout the european union. i now come to the third matter raised by mrs randzio-plath: the question of the symmetry of the codecision powers of the two legislative pillars and of the transparency of the securities committee. it seems to the commission that such a symmetry is guaranteed by the codecision procedure provided for in article 251 of the ec treaty. that procedure gives parliament the power to decide, together with the council, on the scope of the technical implementing measures to be adopted at level 2. parliament must decide, together with the council, on the difference between the general principles and the implementing measures. for those measures the 1999 comitology decision – referred to earlier by the representative of the council – confers on parliament "the right to be informed by the commission on a regular basis of the proceedings of the committees involved in committee procedures." in conformity with articles 1 and 2 of the interinstitutional agreements on procedures for implementing the 1999 comitology decision, the commission will send to parliament all necessary documentation, draft measures and agendas of the european securities committee, as the council representative just mentioned. the commission is also prepared to follow the committee's recommendation that it should take the utmost account of any parliamentary resolution adopted concerning a proposal to the european securities committee. let me now turn to the question raised about proposals for implementing measures. if the european securities committee were to fail to give a positive opinion to the commission and the council were to oppose the measures or parliament were to express a view that the implementing measures exceeded the delegated powers in a resolution adopted by an absolute majority – the so-called ultra vires case – the commission would, following the 1999 comitology decision, re-examine its proposal. in such circumstances the commission would be prepared, as i mentioned earlier, to take the utmost account of parliament's position, as expressed in such a resolution. in those circumstances, and even if the european securities committee had already given a positive opinion on the proposed implementing measures, the comitology decision still gives the commission the possibility of putting forward a legislative proposal on the basis of the treaty, i.e. through codecision. the commission is, however, convinced that all sides will have major incentives to make this system work. it is willing to work with the council and parliament within the scope of the treaty and of the comitology decision to clarify any outstanding points. furthermore, the proposed interinstitutional monitoring committee – on which, of course, this parliament will be represented – will have a significant role in ensuring all of this. finally, on this point, there will be a full review of the whole process in 2004. to conclude, and before i answer the questions put by mrs randzio-plath, the commission's fundamental objective in the securities field is to create an integrated european financial market through the completion of the financial services action plan, and the sooner the better. the commission believes that substantial long-term benefits will flow from that objective. to deliver it, the commission considers that community legislation must become more efficient and flexible in order to respond rapidly to developments in financial markets. as the council representative also stressed, legislation must be delivered in a way which is in conformity with the treaty and with the 1999 comitology decision. all interested parties will have to be satisfied and have an adequate role within the limits of the treaty. i know i shall have the chance at the end of the debate to provide some additional comments, but i should like to reply to some remarks made by mrs randzio-plath. indeed the commission welcomes very much the positive attitude shown by mrs randzio-plath, as chairperson of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, vis-à-vis the report of the committee of wise men under the chairmanship of mr lamfalussy. she said that every effort must be made to speed the process up – and the commission totally agrees with her opinion – otherwise we shall be adopting yesterday's measures for tomorrow's developments. she also said – and here again we concur – that the procedures must be absolutely transparent, and the report of mr lamfalussy and his colleagues is very clear on this. once again, there is a monitoring committee on which, as i have said, parliament will be represented, to monitor this whole process. if there is insufficient transparency, then no doubt the monitoring committee will make the appropriate observations. thirdly, in the case that parliament should adopt by majority vote the opinion that the commission has acted ultra vires, then once again the commission agrees with the lamfalussy report in saying that it will take utmost account of parliament's opinion and act accordingly. that is an important safeguard for parliament to see that it is not bypassed by any sleight-of-hand. so, there again, we can reassure mrs randzio-plath.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by making a comment on the agenda of this parliament. i have promised to speak to citizens in my constituency about european economic issues in one hour, trusting the agenda of parliament, on which this and other reports were scheduled for this morning. so i would like to apologize in advance for not being able to stay until the end of this debate. i would like to make a few comments on the proposal from the wise men and first of all to thank baron lamfalussy in particular for the very wise and detailed report he has drawn up on this subject and then to comment on the first part of this report, namely the question of speeding up the procedure. the real concern we have here is that we want this important legislative package to be fast-tracked and implemented. and here is a first opportunity where we as parliament have already stated that we are prepared, if possible and the council approaches us, to deal with the individual legislative procedures at first reading. so if we can reach agreement at first reading, then we as a parliament are prepared to refrain from putting forward further motions at second reading. it's a given. i think it would be very good if we took two pilot projects, for example, which are very important, the regulations on the pension fund, which are very central, and something simpler, for example, the regulation of prospectuses in the european union, and used these pilot projects to see in concrete terms what the issues are when we move legislation to a second level. i would also like to say a word about the question of whether democracy costs time. it is said here again and again that the fact that parliament might deal with a question in three readings would unnecessarily prolong the legislative procedure. i can't confirm that. let us remember the old days of unanimity, when legislative procedures in the european union took up to 20 years. there are very concrete examples of this, such as the product liability directive. experience shows that we are able to complete important legislative procedures in two years under the new codecision procedure. i think this shows that it is possible to have a democratic process and still not spend an excessive amount of time. the second question is the implementation of the legislation in the european union. we can agree with the proposal of the wise men on most points, unlike the council, which has reservations. but here we are unanimous in demanding a right of withdrawal in the event that we consider that mistakes have been made in the implementation of the legislation. this is the unanimous demand of the european parliament, and it will be adopted very soon in the resolution.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! the crisis of european agriculture is already great enough because of bse. foot-and-mouth disease, as a highly contagious animal disease, is overflowing the barrel. it is understandable that farmers - and not only farmers - are calling for rigorous defence measures. i would like to ask you a few questions. first, do you know how widespread the disease really is today? secondly, farmers are concerned about whether the mcs vaccination has been abolished once and for all. what considerations are there in the present situation for stocks in general and for particularly valuable animals, for example in insemination centres? thirdly, transport is again in the spotlight. is there a common control system for the movement of animals and meat within the european union? if so, what are they? what are the penalties for breaches? fourthly, there is a great deal of concern about any importation of animals and animal products into the community. here you see, argentina offers what the customers are demanding now: beef, guaranteed free of bse. it's still a publicity stunt. but, like you said before, there is mks. what specific protection and security measures have you put in place, commissioner? and fifthly, my last and very important point is the cost of the mcs. what costs are borne by whom and what funding opportunities do you see for the eu? is the commission prepared to learn from the experience of the bse crisis and to take action in all areas necessary to deal with the mcs, rather than merely reacting? i think that the commission should take action and coordinate national measures. (applause from the centre)
chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the commission has already done so. you have pointed out many possibilities and impossibilities. as the author and chairman of the committee, i would like to address the question you have not answered, which is of central importance to us as a committee in relation to the right of withdrawal. nobody wants to change the contract right now. the question is whether a solution can be found within the framework of the 1999 comitology decision. why can't article 6 be supplemented and a guarantee be given to parliament so that the right of withdrawal is guaranteed even in the event, commissioner, that the commission or the other institutions do not follow the european parliament's ideas? i think that would be a compromise between the institutions in the sense that we live in a european democracy.
- mr president, i have to go. in less than nine months, it will be. we shall see the birth of a presumably tight euro, which will see the light of day in the world of real payments. our citizens will finally have it in their hands. its investments are promising: the economic strength of 12 of the 15 eu member states, low inflation rates, falling public debt and historically favourable interest rates. it will probably be guarded by the european central bank in frankfurt am main - which is familiar with stability and has actually done what othmar karas mentioned, namely a policy of the quiet hand. it's paying off now. anyone who has stood up to the black paint, to years of undervaluation, like the euro, is worth investing in. the situation in the euro area is still good, with over 2.5 million new jobs created in three years, but caution is warranted in view of the economic downturn in the united states. growth and investment expectations are being revised downwards everywhere. the threat of a weakening of exports and increasing problems in financing social security systems. the euphoria of the new economy has plunged into the abyss with the falling prices. today, it is clear that even the old economy is far from being a thing of the past. let us be strategic: economic, monetary and social policy must be coordinated. the framework conditions for the creation of innovative enterprises must be improved. investment in information and communication technology must be facilitated. the reform of education and training plans in the member states needs to be stepped up more than ever. they should be more geared to the challenge of the new technologies mentioned and the mobility that is becoming more and more necessary. higher qualifications lead to better employability, especially in the knowledge society we have described so often. it is also a question of ensuring effective social protection on a continuing basis. this, in turn, is only possible if its financing is high on the agenda of those responsible for policy. the social partners' agenda includes the preservation of jobs for older people, the creation of additional jobs and the participation of employees in company profits. the social market economy, which karl von wogau has always advocated, is reflected in his excellent report. we in the epp/ed group voted unanimously in favour of it. these include liberalisation and solidarity, competition and equal opportunities, and growth that respects the environment. the social market economy is more than just an economic model. the home market of europe, as karl von wogau has repeatedly predicted, is being created on the basis of this social model, and it has a future!
mr president, when we talk about the strategy for ukraine, the question of the finality of the eu is always raised in the background, and therefore the question of whether ukraine, as an important european country, has the chance of becoming a member of the eu one day or not. there are two ways to answer that. either you say no, economic and trade agreements are enough. but then the eu will be able to make only a small contribution to stability and will not be able to apply its strict criteria. or we can give ukraine this long-term perspective of membership and now build a comprehensive stability strategy which will first and foremost strengthen democracy and lead to socioeconomic development. but then ukraine must not become the nuclear cesspool of europe!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his very balanced report, and then allow me to touch on a strategic point which is particularly close to my heart. after the political upheaval in central and eastern europe, association agreements were concluded with the aim of allowing these countries to become members of the european community and the european union respectively. ukraine was not involved. the question of the frontiers of europe, which has been brought back to the agenda with the fall of the iron curtain, has never been seriously discussed by us, nor has the fate of ukraine. the answer to the question of europe's borders is that europe does not end east of bulgaria, because that is where ukraine is, and not only ukraine. europe has no clearly defined borders. the european union is not a single entity, but a single entity. the current enlargement approach will inevitably create new dividing lines in europe, for example between poland and ukraine. this is a big problem. that is why a new approach is needed. after 1989/90, europe is no longer divided politically and geographically, but an open continent. what concept am i talking about? the principle of exclusivity, which either fully admits or completely excludes a candidate country from the eu, should be replaced by the following solution: the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the region and to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the region. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. i think it's good that we point out in this report that we want to democratize all the decisions about the management of the internet. this is an important point, but unlike many of you, i am less concerned with eu-based nationalism than with who can actually use internet technology. it's a new technology, and it's only good if a lot of people can use it. the digital divide is primarily between the north and the south, and that's a huge problem because in the south, very few people have access to the internet at all. that is why i think it is absolutely essential that the eu should be committed to closing the digital divide between the north and the south, for example by setting up a programme and investing above all in public access, for example in schools and libraries. only then can as many people in the south as possible use the internet, and only then can we get closer to the point where people can inform themselves and develop as freely and uncensored as possible on the internet.
- mr president, i have to go. the spanish project is certainly something that is stirring up passions in spain and i understand that. but of course it is a matter which must first be decided in spain itself. in the long term, however, i must say that the water supply of the south is also our business. it is not possible that such an important problem should be left to the spaniards alone. i can well imagine that in 10 or 20 years' time we will be dealing with very different projects than we dare to contemplate today. but there is something else i want to say briefly about, and that is the growing willingness to privatise the water industry as well. there is certainly some discussion on this, probably also within the commission. in berlin a study has now been carried out at the ministry of economic affairs to examine the pros and cons of these questions. i personally would be very reluctant to privatise water. i know that there is experience of this in the uk, but at least this would be an issue that we would have to approach very carefully. it would raise problems which would also go far beyond the constitutional framework of our member states. to give you a little example: in germany we have about 4000 municipal water companies, in france we have 2-3 large companies. the moment you privatise that, it means that the small businesses are simply bought up, and that cannot be the point of such liberalisation. that is something we certainly do not want. i do not want to go into this now, and i do not have time, but i think this is a subject which we will have to deal with more intensively in the coming months or years.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i should like to begin by thanking mr purvis, the rapporteur. he has presented a remarkable report and he has pointed out the great potential of biotechnology. we must recognize that this great potential of biotechnology cannot be fully exploited in europe. we have a number of obstacles in the european union. the most important obstacle for me is the so-called de facto moratorium on the release of genetically modified organisms. we do not examine which plants, which organisms are particularly dangerous and therefore may not be authorized, but they are not authorized at all and no distinction is made between the different organisms. this regulation was problematic from the outset. there has never been a real legal basis for this and it is even more problematic now that the council and parliament have adopted new rules on the release of genetically modified organisms and i find it incomprehensible that some member states still do not want to end this moratorium. it is particularly harmful to small and mediumsized enterprises which cannot move their work abroad. we have good rules for the release, and that's why we can now also end the moratorium. i think the dangers of green genetic technology are often overestimated. i also think that the chances of medical applications are overestimated, that you're doing a kind of black and white painting -- genetic modification in the agricultural sector is bad, in medicine it's good per se. i believe that there are opportunities and risks in both areas, and that is what the report says in paragraph 32. we need to have good common rules in the field of medicine, just as we have good rules in the field of plants. there's still a lot of room for improvement. i also believe that we need to set ethically motivated boundaries for genetic and biotechnology. we have already done some of this in europe, and there is now a committee on human genetics which has to look at this area in particular, because europe is a community of values. this does not mean that we have to have the same laws everywhere, that we have to harmonize everything, but we have to agree on certain basic principles in europe as well, and i would like to make a strong appeal to this. (applause from the centre)
mr. president, mr. purvis has done his job well. i've heard that before. i think that's a good report. imagine if we could understand how algae produce hydrogen under sunlight. there is such a thing. you could do that. it would completely change our energy economy. understanding this, for example, is a huge challenge. or take a look at the sting of a sea urchin under a microscope. you get a fantastic instruction manual for new materials. understanding how this happens can change our industrial culture. and we'll only understand that if we're curious, if we approach new technology, new science with curiosity and not with fear. that is the message of john purvis, and i want to support it. i would also like to point out that there is a developing country which has made a huge leap forward in biotechnology. this is cuba. for some 40 years, cuba has been investing in biotechnology in a way that few other countries have, and today it has a turnover in advanced biotechnology of well over 100 million dollars. i would like to mention this because some countries are mentioned. i think that, for all the criticism that can be made of cuba, this is a great achievement. we have followed the path of classical thermodynamics in the energy sector, for example. no living thing works according to classical thermodynamics, otherwise we wouldn't be living as long as we are. irreversible thermodynamics, small changes, may show us a whole new way of doing business with energy. that is something we must also understand. then perhaps what we have done so far will one day be called a mistake. i think we should approach this technology with a little more courage, considering the risks, but without curiosity, without courage, there has never been any progress, not even in biotechnology.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the genetic engineering industry has been promising us for decades now. it's about curing disease, satisfying hunger and creating better people. what did we see in the same time? there have been many dangers, people have died trying, hunger has not been satisfied and better people have not been created. i think that these problems are not about technology, but about the power structures that govern this society. first, there is twice as much food on earth as would be needed to feed all the people. it's a matter of distribution. second, environmental conditions make you sick, and you can't change those conditions with technology, but you can change those conditions. third, we can only achieve a better human being by allowing more self-determination, by allowing people more freedom, but not simply by a new technology. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's policy on the environment is not distorted. this report puts the power entirely in the hands of the genetic engineering industry and therefore cannot be accepted by us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the report by our colleague john purvis is a particularly good - because it is complete and well-balanced - assessment of the situation of the biotechnology industry in europe. this is also reflected in the very large majority this report has found in the committee. the call for a coordinated european action plan was shared by all sides of the house and seems to have found fertile ground in the council of ministers and the commission. thank you very much, commissioner. the european commission, at its meeting this week, confirmed its intention to develop a coherent overall strategy for the promotion and development of biotechnology in europe and to present it to parliament and the council by the end of this year. i am particularly pleased that it was commissioners liikanen and busquin who stressed the importance of this technology for economic and scientific sustainability. at the same time, or rather at the same time, the heads of government, tony blair and wim kok, in a joint letter to the swedish presidency of the council, called for an economic policy action plan to promote the european biotechnology industry and backed up this call with a catalogue. mr liese has already said that this is not just about economic matters but also about other matters, and we as a parliament will follow all these actions very carefully. an important, indispensable prerequisite for the success of this action plan is that all decisions be made on the basis of the best available information. we therefore have a particular concern that the various advisory and scientific committees, through which the expertise of science and industry is integrated into the preparation and decision-making process, are used to the full. i therefore particularly welcome the increased use of all these bodies called for in the report and would like to ask the commission to make greater use of all the opportunities for consultation and cooperation that we have.
- mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. in the 21st century, research and society are facing major scientific and ethical challenges. the application of genetic engineering plays a key role. i would like to thank mr purvis very much. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must now give the green light to green genetic engineering. to stay in the color theory: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the benefits are tangible and understandable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must also show the red card to the extreme positions. biotechnology and genetic engineering can no longer be treated as stepchildren. the eu must get on the train of research and application, or it will finally leave without us. i am concerned about the trend of more and more small and medium-sized enterprises withdrawing from the field of green biotechnology and genetic engineering. the current moratorium at eu level means that while research is being done, the product will not be approved for further use in individual countries. companies and jobs are leaving europe. the light is yellow from where i'm standing. the green switch must be made. however, whether it is red or green genetic engineering, the ethical limits of biotechnology and genetic engineering must be clearly defined. i would like to tell those who oppose research that we have a moral obligation to take advantage of the opportunities offered by this new technology for medicine and for the care of the world's population as a whole. the only way to give the public the green light is through information and transparency, with clearly defined ethical limits to biotechnology and genetic engineering. i would also appeal to industry to do a great deal of publicity work to help us increase acceptance.
- madam president, i think we are in a very dramatic situation, on the one hand the nationalist policy of mr kostunica, and on the other the very european moderate attitude of the macedonian government, which is doing great things and deserves our full support. but in between is kosovo, and we must finally make it clear that the albanian people are not represented by a few extremists, let alone by extremists whose background is unclear. that is why we must hold elections in kosovo without delay to strengthen mr rugova's position and to make clear where the majority of albanians and the democratic forces stand. that is what is missing from our resolution. that is why i wanted to vote against our resolution. i'm afraid i voted wrong. i ask you to correct that and i want to make it quite clear that this resolution is unbalanced because it misses the crucial point, namely the elections in kosovo.
in writing. -the report underlines the importance the eu attaches to ukraine. it highlights progress in the country's development and in the eu-ukraine partnership, but does not hesitate to recall critical moments. i would like to focus on three aspects. firstly, the collapse of the soviet union in december 1989 led to the rapid establishment of independent sovereign states - a process which may have taken place quickly, almost overnight, but which did not erase the decades-old specialisation and cooperation of economies between the different states. although it took place at a different pace, the process of transformation, which was also emphasised by the eu, was accompanied by social disintegration and poverty unprecedented for large parts of the ukrainian population. the eu should attach greater importance to addressing this problem in its cooperation with ukraine. while the eu and its member states pursued mainly commercial interests under the guise of stability, little attention was paid to long-term cooperation between the cis states, and it was even torpedoed. in its own interest, the eu should in future pay greater attention to this factor and base its understanding of ukraine's involvement in the world economy on the fact that other cis states are in the same situation. secondly, the set of recommendations to ukraine is not limited and is justified and useful in many areas. but politics is always about interests. and if the development of the partnership is marked by a preponderance of the interests of only one of the parties, the situation is problematic. the partnership with ukraine should lead to economic stability and social security and prevent or alleviate tensions. this is where the real common interests of the eu and ukraine lie. thirdly, no one will deny that the osce played an important role in maintaining stability in europe during the cold war. both sides have been part of this process, both have benefited from it. ten years after the end of the cold war, the osce should now become an instrument for the peaceful and political resolution of conflicts. nato, however, is pursuing an opposite path, it is betting, with its new strategy, on strength and the deployment of power beyond the borders of this association which are moving ever more to the east, and the eu is about to follow this path. i think it is not advisable to involve ukraine, which has a long common border with russia, in this strategy. ukraine - and the other cis states - should be more involved in the political processes of conflict resolution than before. the losce is the appropriate framework in this respect. the emergence of the new external borders of the union means that this factor will become increasingly important, especially as regards ukraine.
- mr president, i have to go. what goes on in the minds of terrorists? on the orders of taliban leader mohammad omar, the two world-famous buddha statues in bamian were totally destroyed, despite all the international protests. these treasures, which have been part of our common cultural heritage for thousands of years, are irreplaceable. even the promise of more aid to this desperately poor country could not stop the self-styled warriors of god from committing outrages. they rule afghanistan, they expel dissidents, they exploit the country, they trample on human rights, they deny women the opportunity to go to school - as my colleagues have pointed out - and to speak in public. this is the darkest of the middle ages. the koran says that freedom of religion and conscience, along with justice, are central elements of the islamic social order. these commandments have been misinterpreted by the mullahs, an abuse that is unforgivable. pakistan, the taliban's closest ally, intervened without success. the european union must take action here, commissioner. we in the epp are in favour of the international community condemning this fanaticism and vandalism!
- mr president, the clear language of the zimbabwe resolution leaves no doubt that we hold president mugabe personally responsible for the conditions in the country. unfortunately, he is resistant to proposals from his own country, but also from abroad, unless they are accompanied by concrete measures. we therefore call on the eu to suspend all cooperation through government agencies. it is also important to convey to mugabe that he no longer has a relevant political camp in europe as a political sponsor. i would also like to see a common language from the commission and the council. i would like to ask the council presidency to make clear the need for joint action, particularly with the jospin government. if france wants to increase its influence in the region, it should rely on the forces of the future. in this part of africa, civil society sometimes manages to overcome autocratic structures on its own, and then you remember who in europe bet on the wrong horse. please, let's not wait for everything to collapse down there. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. this plenary week is conflict prevention week. a lot of clever things have been said, but the most important action in this context is this eu initiative for the un conference on the illicit trade in small arms. we know that this trade is a key factor in fuelling conflict and that civilians are the most affected. the positive aspect of the eu proposal is that it involves both users and producers and that the eu is seeking to make commitments binding. this conference must be a first step towards ending arms exports. the commission is also responsible for monitoring the implementation of the directive. it would be good if the eu not only called for this but was the first to implement it within its own ranks. (applause from the centre)
commission. – mr president, first on the mozambique flood situation, the commission is following the current flood situation in mozambique closely and is deeply concerned by the numbers of displaced people and by the loss of life which has already occurred. i agree with what many of you have said: that this country has really suffered more than his reasonable in recent decades. the commission's humanitarian aid office, echo, is in close contact with the commission's delegation in mozambique and also with governmental and non-governmental organisations in the country. the commission's assessment confirms the need for new humanitarian aid intervention in mozambique. initial funding to the tune of eur 2 million is currently being prepared. the evolution of the situation is being closely monitored. the commission intervenes most appropriately from the relief phase onwards as search-and-rescue at such a distance is most effectively done by the south african and mozambican air forces. the commission's role can then be complementary after the initial phase. the neighbouring countries of malawi, zambia and zimbabwe are also affected by the abnormally heavy rainfall. the situation in mozambique is likely to persist for several weeks as water continues to be discharged from the kariba and cabora bassa dams. food shortages are likely to continue until at least autumn this year even if there is no more heavy rain. wfp estimates they are already feeding 80 000 people and are preparing to feed up to 150 000. the commission pledged a package of aid totalling eur 73.5 million to the reconstruction programme after the year 2000 floods including a total of eur 10 million from echo funds. eur 63.5 million has been committed, of which eur 23 million has actually been disbursed. as to mongolia, echo, in line with its mandate, is providing humanitarian relief to the people affected by the extreme weather conditions in mongolia since last year. last year, echo allocated almost eur 2 million of emergency relief to address the basic food needs of the most vulnerable families affected by the severe 1999-2000 winter and the subsequent summer drought in mongolia. in 2001, in response to the appeal for international assistance by the mongolian government and based on the humanitarian needs assessment by fao and red cross family, echo has launched an emergency funding decision of eur 1 million. this decision, currently in the pipeline for adoption, foresees the distribution of food, agriculture inputs and medical items to the most vulnerable strata of society in the affected provinces. the aid will be provided by the international federation of the red cross and two echo partners, save the children from the uk and premier urgence of france. echo is closely monitoring the general situation in the country to identify potential further needs for humanitarian aid.
commission. – mr president, i am not in a hurry at all. i am here the whole evening. but on the questions, which are totally pertinent, i am not in a position to give, let us say, improvised replies, i will transmit all your questions to my colleagues who are responsible for these matters and they will then inform the honourable members of parliament.
the agenda calls for the oral question (b5-0010/2001) by mr rocard to the commission, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the commission proposal on the status of assistants. i would ask the author of this question, mr rocard, to explain the matter.
commission. – the commission attaches a great deal of importance to the matter of assistants to members of the european parliament. in 1998 the commission, with parliament's agreement, drew up a proposal to amend the conditions of employment for other staff so that parliamentary assistants would become auxiliary staff. i happened to be the commissioner responsible at the time. this would have ensured equal treatment for assistants in terms of their salary, employment conditions and tax, with a choice of a social security system. as you know, however, this proposal was not accepted by the council. by agreement with the european parliament and the council, the commission then commissioned an expert study with various solutions that would be compatible with community law and the interests of the assistants and the members of parliament. the experts suggested that one aspect of the assistants' legal status could be dealt with by another community instrument, namely regulation no 1408/71, which coordinates the social security schemes of the member states. the assistants are already covered by this regulation and it brings them, in principle, under the social security system of the member state where they work. vice-president onesta has contacted my colleague, commissioner diamantopoulou, suggesting that the commission puts forward a proposal to the council and parliament for an amendment to this regulation, allowing assistants to chose between the member state where they work, the member state where they were last insured or the member state of which they are a national. a similar option is already available to auxiliary staff of the institutions. such an amendment would only resolve a very specific and small part of the assistants' legal position and would not exonerate them from the obligations of national law in regard to labour conditions, tax and social security. however, the commission has committed itself to finding solutions which are in the interests of both assistants and members of parliament. the suggested amendment can indeed clarify the legal position of the assistants as far as their social security rights are concerned. it seems that the application of regulation no 1408/71 to this category of workers still gives rise to uncertainty, which can be removed by the amendment. once they have made a choice there should be no further misunderstanding as to which member state 's system they are subject to. moreover, it seems justified to derogate from the general rules of the regulation for persons working on a temporary basis for members of community institutions, such as auxiliary staff. my draft then reads as follows: ‘therefore the commission intends to propose shortly to parliament and council the suggested amendment to regulation no 1408/71’. if asked what ‘shortly’ means, i can say that it will be before the summer. that means that this issue can be decided during the belgian presidency.
- mr president, i have to go. i have attended all the plenary sessions of our european parliament since 1979, when it was first directly elected, here in strasbourg from monday to friday, 15 years as an assistant to our unforgettable colleague otto von habsburg and now 7 years as a member of parliament. i had to deal with this issue before as a daily newspaper journalist. so i think i know the subject from all three sides that are particularly involved here. i would therefore like to say that it is welcome that we have found, with our provisional arrangements, a system which preserves flexibility on the one hand, provides security on the other, and has also been accepted by the court of auditors as a reasonable and viable system, even though i find it problematic to change the basis of business in the middle of a period. i think this should always be clarified at the beginning of a period. the final status of the assistant is now being discussed, and we welcome that status. i would like to warn you, however, that this is a case of overbureaucratization and a lack of flexibility. there are rumours that it is planned that all assistants will be subject to belgian law, so to speak. this would not only be problematic for the many staff we have in the constituencies, because it is precisely the reinforcement of the feedback to the constituency that is important, it would also not be fair to the working structure of our parliament, because this house is based in strasbourg by decision of the council and holds its plenary sessions here. so it is often more sensible for members of parliament from southern germany, from france, for example, to have an assistant for strasbourg and for the constituency, rather than bringing the brussels assistant to strasbourg. strasbourg is the seat of the european parliament. so it is unreasonable to subject assistants working here to belgian law, for example. brussels is an important place to work, but it is just a place to work, just like luxembourg. i therefore believe that the system must be flexible, that there must be a freedom of choice here which is in keeping with the three places of work of the parliament and the strasbourg seat and with the need to do corresponding work in the constituencies. i therefore believe that the council, the commission and parliament must find a system which gives our assistants security, but which, as i said, meets the specific working conditions of this parliament, which were not laid down by this parliament, and which allows members to provide for or introduce a system in accordance with the laws of the member state in which they are elected, which is in line with their approach to work, their work structure and their work concept, as well as the legitimate social interests of our assistants.
if you do not know it yet, i can tell you that vice-president onesta has been instructed by the mission bureau to advance the status of the assistants. i would like to say, without prejudice to the rest, that we are all satisfied with his personal commitment to this matter. that is also why we are particularly curious to hear what mr onesta has to say.
commission. – i thank parliament for this very clear message. i will pass this on to my colleague, commissioner diamantopoulou and also to president prodi to guarantee that our internal procedures will be fast enough so that when the belgian presidency is in office the proposal is on the table.
we usually expect the commissioner to speak for 10 minutes, but today he spoke for only 10 seconds. we are therefore in the position where we have to suspend the sitting until the vote has begun. mr posselt, on a point of order.
- mr president, i have to go. i know that speaking times can never be precisely scheduled, but we have had it quite often now that we have had a break after the urgency debate and then another break now before the vote. in the urgency debate this afternoon, our group, as the largest group in the house, had only 12 minutes to allocate, apart from the minutes allocated to the petitioners. it was very difficult to accommodate all the requests. we had to disappoint a large number of colleagues. in view of this experience, i would therefore ask that in future, in the urgency debates, the groups be allowed a little more speaking time than is currently the case. it is clear that the present method of calculation is not entirely realistic.
- mr. posselt, we'll pass this on to the administration and ask them to consider it. (the sitting was suspended at 6.13 p.m. and resumed at 6.30 p.m.) chaired by mr friedrichvice-president
i ask you to respect the rules.
it 's even healthier !
the agenda calls for a vote on topical and urgent subjects of major importance. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. before the vote on kalimantan:
we take note of this, but it is customary in this house to forward the text of resolutions to all those who are mentioned.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 6.45 p.m.)
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. when we legislate in this house, we always assume that it will be an improvement on the present situation. i therefore have the right as rapporteur to claim that the seventh amendment to the cosmetics directive is an improvement on the current situation. and is she now? and then many in this room with me will say, "no, she's not". the sixth amendment to the cosmetics directive, which i was also able to be rapporteur on a few years ago, clearly states in some stages that, for example, animal testing for cosmetics should be given an absolute end date, after which no animal testing should be carried out. i would ask all of us to bear in mind that there are now more than 8,000 ingredients that have been tested and that we can use. now the question is, what happens to the new ingredients? the commission has converted this ban on testing and marketing, i.e. the ban on selling, from the sixth amendment into a pure ban on testing on the territory of the european union. so that means that in the future, you can do animal experiments for as long as you want, but a few kilometers away. i now hear from all sides, including the commission, how sympathetic and friendly they are to my amendments, but unfortunately they cannot accept them because they are against the commercial point of view. is that right? - yes. no, that's not true. no one can say whether any case before the world trade organization would be decided positively or negatively because there has not yet been a case decided on the basis of animal welfare and moral grounds. the commission's trade argument is all the more questionable now that the united states itself, in its cat and dog fur act a few months ago, decided to pass laws based solely on animal welfare and the moral sense of the people. i therefore invite the commission to be a little more courageous and to make its political priorities clear. mr liikanen - you know how much i admire you - you must now come out of the closet and admit your political responsibility, fight against your colleague mr lamy and others, or explain to them that they are wrong. what does a ban on marketing mean? of course, i also assume that the products are safe. i don't force anyone to put an unsafe product on their skin or their children's skin or even to brush their teeth with an unsafe toothpaste foaming. i would never want that. i therefore have an approach which i consider to be very reasonable and which has been supported by many colleagues in the committee, and i am grateful to them. yes, there's supposed to be a test ban. yes, there should be a ban on intermediation, i.e. a ban on sales, where alternatives have already been evaluated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. in the meantime, there should be labelling so that consumers can know fairly whether they are buying products that have been tested on animals. then, of course, the seventh amendment is supposed to bring even more improvements. could it be that the scientific committee on cosmetology in the european union finds that ingredients, fragrances, cause allergies and that these fragrances are not labelled? this can't be. this goes against the principles we have in the european union, which is that products must be safe, but also clear and true. so they have to be marked. i suggest no more and no less. it is therefore only right and proper that consumers in the european union should know when they buy a product how long it will last and how long the active ingredients will be kept in it. how long will the toothpaste taste good, and how long will the perfume or the skin cream be fine and not rancid? i therefore propose, with the support of the committee on the environment, that we develop a symbol and that the commission impose a clear labelling requirement for products with a shelf-life of more than 30 months. once they're opened, how long do you think they'll last? i think that these are all proposals which improve the sixth amendment - that is why we are here - and which better protect consumers, but also better inform them and give them the right to choose. this is what we all want and need for the first reading of a bill. we must also go into a second reading with some potential. i am convinced that not only consumers can be satisfied with this, but also representatives of the cosmetics industry, even if they still appear to be beaten and tortured. i think that after this reading and after the second reading at the latest, they will understand that we must come together and call for a common position. that's why i'm inviting you here today.
- by mr de gucht, on behalf of the group of the european people's party i have the privilege of speaking on behalf of my group and of responding to some of your arguments. let me do this! i am the first person ever to vote for safe products only in this european market, but also worldwide. i have done so since i have been in this parliament, in the food sector, but also in cosmetics. mr nisticò, of course, even after a ban on sales, the existing products are to be sold as products which have been found safe. the only thing to do is to stop selling products that have been tested on animals after that date. your amendment no 42, mr nisticò, which deals with finished products, is already taken into account in existing legislation. we have already discussed this in committee. some colleagues, in particular mrs garcía-orcoyen tormo and others, have suggested that we should also take the concerns of scientists seriously. of course i do, and i have no intention of endangering john bowie, any child, or anyone who's older. i just believe that with the ingredients that we've tested, we can make any toothpaste in the world today, and any lipstick for me that i love. i also believe that at some point, whether after five years or, mrs garcía-orcoyen tormo, after ten years as you suggest, we must say: nothing more. either the existing ingredients are used or new ingredients are tested. if that's not possible, then you have to take the ones that are there. and mr. davies was on the committee that developed the philosopher's stone. he's disproved a murder charge. he said very clearly: then we may have to rethink the distinction between cosmetics and pharmaceuticals if this new super-important sunscreen protects us all from skin cancer. the committee has adopted what is certainly in your favour, mr nisticò. then some said, "well, there are tests already. yes, there is, there is artificial tissue that is being tested in vitro. there are many experiments, and wherever you go - mr nisticò, you have the best connections, but there are others - you hear scientists say they have too little money. let us make money available for this in the sixth research framework programme, but let us also invite industry to invest more than before. finally, if we decide to ban testing today, but also to ban marketing in a few years' time, then we must have a labelling system as an interim measure. i therefore invite you once again, and in particular my colleague, the shadow rapporteur for the christian-democratic group, mrs garcía-orcoyen tormo, to look again at amendment no 39. it is of the utmost importance in conjunction with your amendments and mine. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for the very fair and very collegial cooperation before the committee deliberations, during the vote in committee and also here today in this chamber.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. there is an old german saying, "to be beautiful, one must suffer". the new cosmetics directive is the exact opposite: beauty, hygiene and well-being without risk. i would like to stress three points: the best possible protection for consumers, a clear label and the avoidance of animal testing in general. optimal care must be combined with the highest level of consumer protection. we can only guarantee this optimum safety by numerous scientific tests. science is vigorously researching new methods of testing that provide reliable research results while avoiding animal suffering. it is our declared goal to end the era of animal testing. we must encourage all scientific steps in this direction. in future, no animal testing may be carried out on products and their ingredients which have already been tested once and for which binding results are available. however, consumer protection and product safety are the focus. that is why we must allow further animal testing in exceptional cases where there are no alternatives, especially when it comes to the optimal protection of infants, children, the sick and the elderly, including shampoos and creams. we must therefore allow member states to allow animal testing for cosmetics for two years longer than required, provided there are no alternatives. in certain cases it is simply necessary to carry out animal experiments, especially in the case of acute skin and eye intolerances. it is also important for consumers to know which products can cause allergies. however, it would be market-damaging and discriminatory to label all the cosmetic fragrances listed in annex 2. therefore, only products should bear warnings that have been previously identified as such by the scientific committee. it is very important for consumer safety that the maximum and minimum shelf life of the product after opening is clearly and visibly indicated. the labelling of products should also provide consumers with clear and comprehensible information on the correct handling of the products. it is about consumer protection and safety, with a minimum of animal testing and a push for alternatives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. pvc is undoubtedly a material with advantages and disadvantages. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. the commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. pvc is particularly attractive because of its wide range of applications and its long life span, and is therefore widely used in the construction sector in particular, as well as in many other fields, including the medical field. the commission's green paper and mr sacconi's report also pay particular attention to additives, especially cadmium and lead stabilizers. the industry is already voluntarily phasing out cadmium in pvc products. the use of lead is also being reduced. in certain product groups, such as window frames, this stabilizer is already being replaced by calcium-zinc compounds in many companies. we should reward this willingness of companies to innovate and protect the environment by continuing to pursue and promote the system of voluntary agreements. binding legislation should only be considered where agreed targets for reducing heavy metals or increasing recycling rates are clearly not met. a general ban on pvc products would be fatal for 530,000 workers in the pvc industry throughout europe, 170,000 of them in germany alone. the development of pvc substitution measures therefore needs to take into account above all the socioeconomic impact. in this context, it would be irresponsible to call for a pvc moratorium. the commission considers that the measures in question are not imputable to the state and that they are therefore imputable to the state. it would not apply equally to all products, nor would it bring any tangible environmental benefits. the introduction of a pvc fee, the separate separation of hard and soft pvc and the ban on pvc in construction are particularly burdensome for small and medium-sized enterprises across europe. in the european union alone, 21,000 smes are affected. pvc as a material must be subject to a thorough assessment throughout its life cycle. the problems and advantages must be weighed against each other. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the use of pvc is not prohibited.
- mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i agree with you, mrs müller, that we need to undertake an integrated and holistic life-cycle analysis of pvc. and it turns out that, for example, pvc windows and windows frames, or pvc water pipes, are products that we want to use because of the product characteristics. for example, blood bags, although it is a short-lived pvc product, but because of the product characteristics, it is the most suitable. however, i think that, unlike you, we should take care to do everything we can to ensure that pvc does not end up in uncontrolled waste disposal because of its dangerous properties. we need to make a greater effort to introduce recycling for all pvc products, both material and non-material recycling. there is certainly one or another reasonable approach. but it takes a lot more determination and a lot more pressure to get things to really close. we also need the labelling, mrs müller. it's not so that it says "watch out for pvc!" but so that it can be collected in a clean way and we can really recycle it sensibly. the aim is to ensure that pvc is recycled for human consumption, in addition to the life cycle analysis. that is why we need separate collection and separate labelling of pvc! we must also ensure that the workers' representatives are involved in decisions about the future of pvc. we must make some improvements in the green paper and ensure that the pvc strategy is also implemented in the candidate countries as soon as possible. when mr sacconi received the report, i knew it would be an excellent piece of work. that's been confirmed.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i think we have to keep reminding ourselves that the problems with pvc are unique. no other product is produced from chlorine and produces such large quantities of additives that are harmful to the environment and human health. there are alternatives. what i find absolutely irresponsible is the panic about jobs. our job as legislators is to ensure that the environment and health are protected. it is not our job to give industry panic arguments about jobs. we have to realize that 96% of jobs in the pvc sector are in the converting sector. this means that these manufacturers might as well use other materials. we know that the leading manufacturers of pvc can produce the alternatives just as well. i therefore think it is not appropriate for us to go along with these false arguments. we must be aware of the risks again. the five studies carried out by the commission have shown that there are huge problems, particularly in the incineration of waste, which generates even more hazardous waste. let me now turn to the argument of industry's self-commitment. the industry has had decades to develop a self-commitment strategy here. it has just become clear that she only brought the self-commitment into play when she realized that we, as legislators, are finally going to introduce a strategy here to replace pvc. in fact, it does not propose any alternatives either, for example, it does not propose a solution to the problem of landfills, it does not call in question the incineration which is so highly problematic. i think it is even more unfair that she makes the recycling rate dependent on the quantities collected, but does not want to participate in the collection herself. it's obvious that this is pure macular, a mist swamp. we shouldn't be so hard on him. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i welcome the green paper on pvc, but i must also say that i was disappointed by it because it paves the way for panic - not panic about labour, but panic about this material, pvc. we have seen that clearly here today. i would like to say something about mr sacconi: he has tried to put things right, and he has succeeded in some respects, but not in all. i think we have a lot of work to do. i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the problems facing the community in this field. pvc is a material that we encounter every day, that we need and can use in many areas of our lives. i think that will continue to be the case in the future. the problem that has to be solved is something that we have in every other field, in every other material. the weak points of the green paper are that it talks about things - cadmium, lead - products which are almost no longer used by industry in the production of pvc. i have seen firsthand how the self-commitment measures are introduced in the factories. i'm not a fan of commitment myself, i've always fought it hard. because we need laws to get things done, but this was not a lobbying trap, as was mentioned a few minutes ago, but i convinced myself. we should take these findings of industry as our own and not just occasionally resort to substitutes or demand those we have not yet tested ourselves, where we ourselves do not know where to go. so these are things that absolutely have to be considered and the green paper has to be corrected here. we always say in the legislative process that we need to move quickly, we need to have a vision. the whole legislation on the recycling of pvc, the incineration directive, the landfill directive - these legal bases can also be used if we want to recycle and separate this material.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the green paper presented has served its purpose in my view. all the players - the commission, parliament, companies and associations - have been discussing the advantages and disadvantages of pvc intensively in recent months. the repeated demands from industry to exclude certain sub-areas from consideration, such as the substitution of pvc by alternatives or the substitution of cadmium and lead as stabilizers, must be rejected. i believe that in the context of a green paper there must be no prohibition of ideas or the exclusion of particular areas if we want to have a solid basis for decision-making on an overall strategy. the report by mr sacconi makes a balanced correction of the shortcomings of the green paper. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the beneficiary in accordance with the conditions laid down in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. it is also important to me that this consideration should include the social dimension, i.e. the impact on jobs, in addition to the ecological and economic dimensions. pvc has advantages in some products due to its durability, but these advantages are reduced by the stabilisers used. the substitution of these two toxic substances should therefore be pursued rapidly. the recycling rate must also be increased. the debate on phthalates, which we have already had in relation to toys, must be brought to an end by independent scientific risk assessment. i hope that the outstanding opinion will be included in the evaluation of soft pvc in the green paper. i think that if we make the right decision tomorrow, we will have a good basis for an overall pvc strategy.
- mr president, i have to go. the committee on economic and monetary affairs is currently dealing with one of the important issues on the european agenda, which was also the focus of the stockholm european council, namely demographic developments combined with comprehensive social protection and the question of pension systems within the european union. we have at present the commission's proposal on supplementary occupational pensions. this is certainly a very important proposal, especially in the context of european integration, which is intended to complement the statutory pension scheme and, together with a private pension scheme, to form the three pillars of a secure pension system in the european union. the second pillar, supplementary occupational retirement provision, will certainly play an increasingly important role in the member states of the european union. this is of course due to the fact that the public security systems are facing financing problems due to demographic change, but above all because we want to achieve future-proof pensions. in this context, it should be noted that the commission has not yet submitted to the european parliament, as promised last year, a proposal for a directive covering the whole package of requirements for an occupational pension scheme, but only part of it. the commission proposal for a directive does not contain any reference to taxation. it is very important for us to know to what extent the existing rules should be supplemented by proposals for tax harmonization or tax regulation. commissioner, you told us that a communication would be published shortly. in order to be able to assess the whole package, it is very important for us to see to what extent the principle of free movement of workers is not undermined by divergent national taxation, by different taxation of contributions to occupational pensions, by different taxation of pensions as such, because we have a secondary taxation in many member states. all these questions are open and closely linked to the success of the proposal for a directive which you have put forward. i would like to make one further point: there must be no discrimination against workers solely on the basis of the place where they receive their pension. neither tax avoidance nor unfair tax competition nor the lack of exchange of information in the tax field can be a solution to these problems. we need to coordinate tax policies, which the monti package has started with such hope. we must also make it possible for workers who wish to pursue crossborder activities, as provided for in the treaty, to do so in the interests of those workers. it is therefore extremely important for us as the european parliament to have your answers before the end of our discussions on how to ensure tax coordination in this area.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission's proposal for a directive has one main objective. the main objective is to strengthen the european financial market by means of pension funds. if it wanted to, it would not need a directive, because the entire pension fund and financial markets are covered by the ucits directive. this is why it explicitly mentions occupational pensions, referring to the second pillar of the overall pension strategy. however, if we are talking about occupational retirement provision, then the financial markets must be subordinated to occupational retirement provision and not the other way around. we believe that we must then talk about a sensible occupational pension policy and not just about one step or partial steps that might lead to it in 20 or 25 years. now for the tax treatment. i do not understand you, commissioner, when you say that you cannot comment on the content of the communication itself because it has not yet been adopted. because you yourself have announced it several times for the month of march, then for the beginning of april, then easter was in the discussion. yeah, when should she come? how are we going to deal with the proposal for a directive and the report by mr karas in the committee if the tax question is not included? i think that without the taxation issue, mr karas' report is not eligible for a vote. i am therefore asking you to make a statement. if you are speculating that treaty provisions which are currently in force will be implemented with the help of the european parliament, i can only counter that you have had the opportunity on several occasions before. you did not have to wait, and you will always be assured of parliament's support for a uniform tax treatment. the commission must also start showing courage here, courage against the council of ministers.
- i'm not going to tell you. i would like to ask again, since we have had problems with the timetable: when exactly will we receive the communication? the second point which is not clear is: what is the purpose of a communication to actually establish the tax bases for the whole directive if you cannot name the principles according to which a minimum of harmonisation must be regulated, avoiding tax discrimination or non-recognition? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented.
- the minutes of the previous session have been circulated. are there any observations ?
- i've noted it. i remember the president-in-office telling you yesterday that she was going to take care of it.
- thank you very much, dear college. i do not intend to allow a debate to be started on this subject. if there are any other statements, i will not accept them. the president made it clear yesterday what she intends to do about this. the debate is therefore closed.
- i'm sorry, but it's hard to change that, at least retroactively. (laughter) the debate is closed (announcement of motions for resolutions tabled): see minutes. if there is no dutch translation, i would ask our services to have someone take care of it. right now, i can't do anything more. (the minutes were approved) documents received: see minutes.
- the next item is the decision on a request for urgency on the proposal for a council regulation (com (2001) 87 - c5-0083/2001 - 2001/0043 (cns)) amending regulation (ec) no 1251/1999 establishing a support system for producers of certain arable crops. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
, chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development. - mr president, i have to go. this request for urgency is to have protein feed or legumes grown on the setaside areas this year. this is an old demand of parliament which is now finally taking effect. the committee on agriculture and rural development has negotiated with the council presidency that this scheme should be introduced later this year. that is why our committee supports this urgency. this is also a way of providing financial compensation to the cattle farms affected by the bse crisis without putting an additional burden on the budget - i emphasize an additional burden - and still providing these farms with income support through feeding. the commissioner, mrs schreyer, will be pleased. i ask the house to approve this motion.
- since no one wants to speak against the emergency, we now move to the vote. (parliament adopted the resolution) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
- the agenda calls for the following three reports to be discussed jointly: - a5-0102/2001 by mr costa neves, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the guidelines for the 2002 budgetary procedure (2000/2324 (bud)) - section iii - commission; - a5-0103/2001 by mrs buitenweg, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the guidelines for sections ii, iv, v, vi, vii and viii and on the preliminary draft estimates of the european parliament (section i) for the 2001 budgetary procedure (2000/2325 (bud)) section i - european parliamentsection ii - councilsection iv - court of justicesection v - court of auditorssection vi - economic and social committeesection vii - committee of the regionssection viii - ombudsman; - a5-0110/2001 by mr colom i naval, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision (com (2001) 0149 - c5-0117/2001) on the adjustment of the financial perspective to the conditions of implementation (presented by the commission to the european parliament and the council pursuant to points 16 to 18 of the interinstitutional agreement of 6 may 1999).
draft opinion of the consultative committee on agriculture and rural development. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i thank him for putting the emphasis on this. but if this means that the 2002 budget already contains the approaches to the forthcoming reform of the agricultural policy, as we would like to see, they would be a little less clear, because the 2002 budget will probably be entirely concerned with dealing with the bse and foot-and-mouth disease crisis. i would ask the committee on agriculture and rural development to take this matter seriously and to ensure that the possibility of pooling resources not used up - including those from the compulsory sector - is provided for in the form of a fund for animal diseases and disasters in the market and consumer sectors, so that we really have sufficient funds to fight the crisis, which has reached catastrophic proportions, together with the member states. we will not accept in any way, as was the case in the previous budget, that problems are dealt with by linear cuts. we ask that this wording be omitted from the commission's deliberations in the preliminary draft budget for 2002. in the field of export refunds and in the context of a new eu agricultural policy, which we are facing, we should also try to continue the trend of reducing expenditure on exports where it is still very high. this not only makes it easier for us to defend our position aggressively at wto level, it would also help us in terms of flexibility in agriculture and rural areas as a whole. in other words, despite all the problems of the crisis we are currently in because of bse and foot-and-mouth disease, we would like to see the first positive steps towards the necessary reform of agricultural policy in the commission's preliminary draft budget.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. let me present the priorities of the committee on economic and monetary affairs for the general budget for 2002. the first point concerns the problem of statistical information, or rather its inadequacy. statistical information is of great importance to the work of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. we have to be careful not to get too far ahead of the market. i would just like to give the example of the structural indicators. the committee therefore calls for an appropriate financial allocation to the budget in the area of the title 'statistical information'. secondly, we call for adequate risk capital to be provided, particularly for small and mediumsized enterprises. (applause from the centre) thirdly, it is very important for us to have sufficient resources to implement the action plan for the internal financial market. the same applies, of course, to the commission. we are reacting to the lamfalussy report. it is better to tackle this than to proceed too slowly with the legislative procedure. fourthly, we emphasize the improved staffing of the commission's directorates-general. finally, we call for an examination of the continuation of the prince programme for the first six months of 2002, particularly for small and mediumsized enterprises which have not been able to prepare themselves sufficiently for the changeover - also because of their financial resources - as large companies and banks have done. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are talking about the budgetary guidelines today. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the budget, but that we should be concerned about the budgetary policy. i would like to make it quite clear that not every issue in europe is an issue for europe. and not every european issue is a budget issue. these are things that have to be distinguished here. i would therefore like to focus on a few key points. the first issue is, of course, how we can take budgetary measures in the face of the crisis of foot-and-mouth disease and bse - and all of these are budgetary measures - so that we have a sustainable agriculture with the best possible consumer protection and so that we can sell the products produced in europe to other parts of the world. this is the end of agriculture. we have a major common task to fulfil here, also in the context of the 2002 budget. the european union is becoming increasingly important by assuming responsibility for the common foreign and security policy. i am beginning to think that it is no longer acceptable for the 15 foreign ministers of the european union - and here one has to ask oneself whether we really need that many - to travel around the world, to blow the horn of europe everywhere, to make promises which we must then implement laboriously and with great budgetary tricks. it can't be like this. the council must consider whether what it is doing is wise. the third priority: we are entering the very concrete phase of enlargement negotiations, and the more concrete we are in the enlargement process, the more effective things will be in terms of the budget. it is also clear that it is not enough to drive through the capitals of the candidate countries, pat on the back of everyone and say: 'it is going well'. but when it comes to providing money and instruments, the council is closed in on itself and is also more than fussy about the allocation of funds. this is not right! the last point i would like to raise, because it was also a point of discussion in the committee on budgets, concerns internal and legal policy. this is of course a political priority, but it is only a matter of a few posts for mr vitorino. it is not effective. the budgetary effectiveness of domestic and legal policy is lacking. you have to see it sober. we should therefore distinguish between politically important issues, which will include domestic and legal policy in the coming year. but for the budgetary guidelines this area is not the top priority because it is not of great importance. i would also like to raise the issue of administrative budgets. i ask you very clearly, who is the administration for? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it is rather unlikely that we will now be setting up one subcommittee after another - there is discussion, for example, of doing this in the area of consumer protection - rather than thinking about how we can adapt the existing committee structures so that we can better represent legislative responsibility. these are things we have to talk about this year. this, of course, has implications for the budget. we are also discussing the financial perspective. we will also have to draw budgetary consequences from the wto in the course of 2002. i have touched on the subject of enlargement and foreign policy, which we are now in the third year of special arrangements. we are discussing the sixth research framework programme, for which we want more money. we're talking about the administration's budgets being blown up. the council now wants an additional 10 million euros. so we are also under enormous pressure in the area of administrative expenditure. in summary, what was so grandly announced by the heads of state and government in berlin in march 1999 - that europe's ability to act would be guaranteed by 2006 - turns out to be unrealistic and untrue two years later. i therefore ask the council to drop its pants and to make a change in the financial perspective, otherwise we will not be able to meet the requirements and expectations of europe on a lasting budgetary basis. (applause from the centre)
mr. ferber, for moral reasons, i must reject your last proposal!
- mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i thank the president for his point of order, because he saves me from saying the same thing. when markus ferber puts such proposals in the room, it is naturally tempting to respond to them. it is not a very attractive prospect to see him with his pants down, but the suggestion to raise the issue here is not necessarily from bad parents. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but you must also know that we are dealing with our taxpayers' money. we deal with taxpayers' money. it is an easy exercise to stand up and say: "what you have given yourself as a framework is all nonsense, we can easily push it aside, because there is more to come!" that's easy to say in hindsight. the world has certainly changed in recent weeks and months, and i do not hide from the fact that in recent years i have repeatedly asked whether the resources are actually sufficient in one case or another, given the very acute problems that we are facing. the acute problems are part of what the social democrats will be looking at in the budgetary consultations. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. these are two of the very great priorities which have been seriously affected in recent weeks and months by events, by events in the field of agricultural policy, in the field of the food supply of the citizens, which could not have been foreseen. but we cannot stand by and pretend that they are not there, and just stick our heads in the sand and say that everything is going to continue as it is and that what was decided then was right for all eternity! we must indeed make the question of consumer protection and food quality one of the top priorities in the context of a renewal of agricultural policy. secondly, the second priority and the urgent need, and i insist that after two years of fighting hard for this, we should not simply forget and put aside the question of peace in europe and, more specifically, peace in the balkans. it is not a matter which can be shelved simply because a new, more serious and perhaps even more closely related problem has arisen. the construction of the balkans and the maintenance of peace, the support for the people there, is also a question of the future viability of our european continent! everything we fail to do now to build peaceful structures there can catch up with us someday. who among you can guarantee that we will not again be drawn into warlike conflicts, if we make people feel that it is actually more beneficial for them to fight among themselves? there is clearly no greater benefit at the moment than for them to work with us to shape the continent peacefully. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have been successful here in the european continent, in the european union, in the past. the unemployment rate has fallen from 8.7% to 8% in the last year. the european union has not, of course, borne most of the burden, but we are certainly an integral part of progress with our proposals and initiatives. if we take the social inclusion of the population seriously and do not want to accept that parts of the population are excluded from participation, for example in the labour market, then we must work accordingly here. the people have a right to expect us to fight unemployment very hard. but social inclusion is also - and my colleague neena gill said it - that in the conditions of the new technologies, everyone must have the opportunity to participate in this society. it must not depend on whether someone has enough money to buy the turbo computer and train the children to use it, but our main focus must be on involving everyone. the question of migration is certainly a point of political importance, far more important than the budgetary one. i am glad that we agreed in the committee on budgets to deal with this subject under the heading of 'migration' and the heading of 'assistance'. how can we shape the migration that either came unwanted or that we will need at some point in the future? it is not a question of criminalising, of emotionalising, but of dealing with the issue. i think it is a very good thing that we have been able to put this in line with the wording of the draft report by mr costa neves. the next point is the common foreign and security policy. this is also an important point, which is not so clear from a budgetary point of view at the moment, but which is politically important. it is no longer a question of thinking at european level about how to improve the networking of military structures, how to create more military units, but security policy for the european continent also means disarmament, it also means the reduction of the means of mass destruction that threaten us. it cannot be just a matter of building on one side, it must also be in our interest to contribute to the worldwide elimination of weapons of mass destruction. we should give this a high priority. in conclusion, we shall accept the draft report as presented by mr costa neves, which we think is very good. it is true that it needs improvement in some areas, but that is why we have tabled amendments, and i know that there will be a great deal of acceptance for this, for which i am very grateful. the budget will always be considered by us, not only this year but also in the future, from the point of view of whether we as a parliament are really the budget as a whole or only have a say in some of it. we believe that there can be only one budget, without any distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory, and it must cover both the revenue and expenditure side. the budgetary procedure will then be completed, and that is our long-term demand! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, on behalf of my group i too would like to thank the rapporteurs for the good preliminary work they have done, for the good work as a whole. i shall concentrate my remarks on the costa neves report. the rapporteur has already said all that is necessary on the report by mr buitenweg. it has the full support of our group, of course. i would like to draw your attention once again to your comments on the subject of 'multiannual plans'. we need long-term planning in the area of parliamentary administration. we also agree with the costa neves report in a large measure, and above all we support its clear focus. the guidelines are not intended to be detailed, of course, but to set out the eu's priorities for the coming year, the 2002 financial year. we think that the emphasis - for example, the priority in the field of agricultural policy - is right. the foot-and-mouth disease crisis shows that the eu is in a deep crisis in the field of agricultural policy. we hope that the review of agenda 2000, the mid-term review which must now be made, will lead to the necessary reform steps and also to greater involvement of parliament in the formulation of agricultural policy. we think this is necessary, above all, because the agricultural policy is leading to a widespread loss of confidence in the population. we must take this back by shifting to more rural programmes, we must move away from market support measures and we need more co-determination by parliament. the first thing that is needed is not more money but a thoroughgoing reform. the second priority - enlargement to the east - also presents major challenges for the eu. we very much hope that the funds already allocated for the year 2000 will be used. we should use these resources. if we look at environmental policy in the enlargement countries alone, it is clear that there is a great need for funds. i hope that the committee will give it greater support - i will also take mr ferber's word here, as he has already announced that support. i think we as a committee must also take the initiative and make the appropriate demands, because everything we do not tackle in time now will have its revenge later. it is in this area that eu policies urgently need to be reformed if eastern enlargement is to be affordable and manageable in the long term. i think the call for the revision of the financial perspective is justified. we all know the problems we had last year with the financing of the balkan stability pact, with the financing of meda. we also have a duty to continue to pay great attention to this, particularly in the area of external policy, and to ensure that good work is done in this area, particularly with regard to conflict prevention. but it can't just be about more money in the first place. i think that is precisely where we need to look for more efficiency. in the field of external policies, there is an urgent need for reform in several areas. we hope that the additional staff the commission has received over the last year will also help to achieve greater efficiency in this area. i would like to emphasize once again that we support all three reports. however, we should sit down again and be more specific on the subject of 'eastern enlargement'.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. since the 1996 council regulation on the european system of accounts at national and regional level in the european community, we have had a new revised system, the esa 1995. however, the new system should not be applied to the budgetary and own resources calculations until the new own resources decision. at the time, it was assumed that the new own resources decision would be adopted in 1999. we now know that this happened only in september 2000. it will enter into force on 1 january 2002, if the member states ratify it swiftly. so much for the legal situation. it is clear that the member states have now adjusted their national accounts systems and that the 1979 data are no longer available. the commission's proposal to amend the regulation on the determination of the member states' contributions to the own resources based on vat is simply a letter-by-letter adjustment to actual practice. we, the whole committee on budgets, assume that the changeover from the 1979 to the 1995 esf will have no effect on the level of own resources, either as regards the balances between member states or, of course, the total volume of own resources. so far, so good. i'm going to go. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security is a very good one. it is not a secret that we as a parliament, as part of the budgetary authority, want full budgetary rights, not only to be able to take part in decisions on expenditure but also on revenue. so we are now trying to take a tiny step towards that goal. the commission is willing to help us in this task. i thank her for that, very specifically and very warmly. it is prepared to present a working document on the state of play of the collection of own resources at the beginning of a budgetary procedure. this document will also contain information on good and less good practice in the member states' surveys. this will provide us with a good basis for discussion with the council on the revenue of the european union. it is also no secret that the council is as cumbersome on this issue as the rather long title of the regulation we are now discussing. not only is he not considering, as we saw in nice, deciding jointly with parliament on own resources, but he is not even willing to discuss it with us, either in a formal or an informal trilogue. i would like to point out that this is not a negotiation, no, it is a conversation. the council is simply denying parliament its rights, but it is not just denying itself its rights, it is denying parliament its rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial services are not affected by the crisis. we must fight for the european company directive. we must fight for the staff of the common foreign and security policy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. i am therefore firmly convinced that all my colleagues, including the chairman of the committee on budgets, will be firmly on our side if we insist on at least entering into a dialogue with the council on our own resources. (applause from the centre)
chairman of the committee on budgetary control. mr president, i wanted to ask how the swedish presidency is represented here today in this important debate. can you give me a name? i was informed yesterday by the secretary of state responsible, mr malmberg, that he was unable to be here, to his great regret. i regret this even more because the national budget is probably being debated in sweden and it will not be here with us. can you tell us who is taking part in the debate today on behalf of the presidency of the council at political level? thank you. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i thank you for your efforts and i ask that it be noted that the house regrets that the presidency of the council is not present at this important debate! (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. my report is intended to put an end to the discharge procedure in 1998. the first thing the prodi commission had to face was a tense situation. however, what was achieved by postponing the discharge for 1998 in april 2000 and by granting discharge in july 2000 leaves much to be desired. i shall only mention three areas of particular concern. in 1998, for the fifth consecutive year, the court of auditors refused to give the commission a positive statement of assurance, that is to say, to certify that the european taxpayer's money was being handled with care and economy. parliament has therefore done more than enough to oblige the commission to achieve a so-called positive das by the end of the financial year 2003. unfortunately, the commission has so far failed to identify concrete, measurable intermediate steps along this path. the commission's constant reference to the general reform programme cannot be sufficient here. i therefore ask the commission: is not the careful handling of european taxpayers' money a matter which must be the commission's first priority? or will the commission celebrate the tenth anniversary of the refusal of a positive declaration of assurance in 2003? we measure the commission by its actions, not by its words. i therefore expressly welcome the deadlines we are now setting for you to achieve this objective in the report. in particular, the fléchard case has shown that the role of the independent financial controller is decisive for whether a case of fraud becomes known or not. you now want to abolish this independent financial controller and, as part of the reform programme, place him in a hierarchical position under the director-general responsible for the specific subject. we cannot agree to that! the result would certainly be a glaring reduction in the error rate, but not because there would be no more mistakes or fraud, but because the directors-general in charge would ensure that such things would not arise in the first place. the establishment of an independent disciplinary chamber, capable of fair and impartial disciplinary proceedings, with corresponding consequences for the officials responsible, is also a longstanding demand of parliament, which the commission has not complied with. nor is it serious about the introduction of a european prosecutor to prosecute fraud cases. on the subject of access by members of parliament to information and documents, i ask the commissioner seriously: how are we to control if you deny us the information and documents? the commission has, at the beginning of its mandate, put transparency and openness at its heart. i myself have seen in the 1998 discharge proceedings how the claim and reality here are clearly at odds. the 1999 discharge procedure also showed no significant improvement. a look at annexes i and ii to the blak report shows that the rapporteur has received 22 requested reports and has not written 11 reports! these figures, i think, speak for themselves. the lack of access to information is being fatally exacerbated by the framework agreement between the commission and parliament. it was adopted, as you know, in july 2000 here in the plenary without any opportunity to discuss it. this framework agreement is driving a wedge between members and creating a two-class parliament. it is promoting a policy of divide and rule. we cannot tolerate this, nor can we tolerate the denial of access to public documents. i would also remind you that in the morgan report last december we decided to postpone discharge in the future if all the documents requested were not submitted by the commission. this case actually came to pass sooner than many expected. i would like to say again very clearly about the fléchard case: the commission cannot blindly ignore the clear recognition that what was done was wrong at the time and that everything must be done in the future to prevent such an illegal decision from being taken again. the opportunity to make such a statement is yours, mrs schreyer, as the responsible member of the commission. please take advantage of this opportunity today! i want to make it very clear that my decision whether or not to grant you a discharge will depend on how you speak today.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to go. i would like to express my support for mrs theato's intervention. i also think it is a huge problem that the council is not involved in this discussion. the council's report on discharge gives the impression that in many areas the council has no idea what it is writing about. the council has not yet taken a decision on the budget, but it is not yet in a position to make a decision on the budget. i think this is a scandal, particularly because the council is partly responsible for the problems in this area. there are still unresolved conflicts of competence between the member states and the commission. i hope that the council will show a little more responsibility and take on more responsibility. the european parliament is trying to balance very carefully in this relief between what is necessary in urgently needed control tasks and what is of course equally important on the other hand, namely to avoid a further loss of confidence in the european institutions. i have therefore considered for a long time whether i could really advocate a delay in the discharge as rapporteur for the development fund. but the decision is clear, and i have the full support of the committee on budgetary control. i would like to emphasize once again that we are not refusing discharge, as was reported in the newspaper today, but we are postponing discharge. we therefore want this postponement of discharge because we believe that the commission is on the right track, but that some pressure is still needed to ensure that this path is taken satisfactorily. it is not a question of mistrust of the commissioner responsible, but of making it clear that the action plan he drew up with parliament a year ago during the 1998 discharge is the right answer to the problems at hand, and that we, as the committee responsible and as parliament, want to incorporate the first results of this action plan into our discharge process. since the first results are expected in april/may, we ask for a delay in the discharge until then. we also consider this to be extremely necessary because there is still a great deal of improvement to be made in the area of the development fund and the management of the development fund, in terms of auditing and cooperation with the member states. i would also like to thank the european court of auditors for their good cooperation in this regard, which has been very helpful in its assessment of the management of the development fund. i would point out that the positive dac in the court's report is to be assessed in relative terms, because the court has also indicated, after inquiries, both orally and in writing, that it has problems and cannot investigate 77 countries and 250 projects, that it is dependent on cooperation with the countries receiving aid in this area, and that there is still a lot of work to be done. on the one hand, the delegations on the ground must be strengthened, but on the other hand the administrative structures in the countries must also be strengthened, there must be joint projects in which the responsible persons from these countries can also obtain appropriate information from the court of auditors in europe, and exchange projects for those responsible in the administrative structures of the acp states with the court of auditors. we urgently need to improve the administrative structure to meet the challenges of development aid. i would also like to stress that i am asking for a delay in the discharge because there has been a lack of transparency in my area. the commissioner has shown himself to be very hesitant and fearful in many individual areas in my area, and information came to me as rapporteur too late, or after the application was closed, or not at all. i think that the reference by his staff to the framework agreement with parliament is also not very helpful in creating confidence on the part of the rapporteur and in bringing about constructive cooperation here. the commission must in future act with greater transparency and sovereignty and must approach parliament with greater confidence so that we can bring this discharge to a satisfactory conclusion together. i would also like to stress once again that there are many things that need to be improved, particularly in the area of the development fund. the commissioner is faced with difficult tasks. there is an old backlog of commitments which he has inherited from the old commission. there are inadequate administrative structures and understaffing. the countries themselves have problems with wars and crises - we take all this into account. we are also quite prepared to admit that the control issues in this area need to be dealt with a little more difficult. the control in a developing country must assume that there is always corruption involved in development aid and we must weigh up the forms of action in those countries. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. however, we would like to emphasise once again that if the eu and the commission want to build public confidence in the important task of development aid, then of course their management structure must also meet the requirements. it should be stressed that the backlog of payment commitments has now reached a frightening level. (applause from the centre)
- madam president, we have improved the amendment on one point in consultation with the rapporteur. it reads as follows: 'hopes that true to the rules of social dialogue the commission will continue to consult with the parties concerned.' the change is in continue. this is the only amendment and, as i said, it has been agreed with the rapporteur and accepted by him.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the budgetary procedure for a financial year begins with the setting of priorities - we debated the priorities for the 2002 budget this morning - and ends with the discharge by the european parliament, as we are debating them today for the 1999 budget. the decision to grant discharge is a very crucial moment for the commission and parliament, as it brings the democratic powers of control of parliament to the fore. this control covers a wide range of areas, because the eu budget is large - 84 billion euros in 1999 - and, above all, it covers a wide range of activities, from the promotion of olive oil, nuts, school milk to student exchanges, from the development of fuel-saving cars to space research or information on the euro, from the promotion of women's education in africa to the restructuring of the fishing fleet or food aid after an earthquake or civil war. in view of this wide range, which i have just mentioned as an example, the control of the budgetary procedure covers almost all the activities of the commission. mr blak, the rapporteur-general on budgetary discharge, has chosen precisely this approach of extensive control of the various policy areas in which public funds are spent. it was hard work for everyone involved. this is evidenced by the detailed questionnaires, but above all by this report. mr blak, you have a reputation as a very sharp critic of mismanagement. after these months of cooperation, i can now truly confirm and testify that you have remained true to your calling. at the same time, i should like to thank you for the balance and fairness and the clear approach you have taken, which has been to point out in all areas where things are going well and where things are going badly and to insist in your decisions and approaches that this is where improvement in community policy is being set in motion. the commission will follow up on the main results of your work. as all good cooks know, the right mixture and the right temperature on the stove are the keys to culinary success. the committee spent many hours in the discharge process and, in particular, held various hearings with the commissioners responsible. i should also like to thank the commission for the good cooperation in working relations within the committee and its chairman, mrs theato. the annual discharge procedure shall be based on the annual report of the court of auditors. for 1999, the court had given the commission a positive declaration of assurance on the revenue side, on commitment appropriations and on administrative expenditure, but not on the other payment transactions, as had already been the case in previous years. the committee and the rapporteurs drew on the professional work of the court, but also on the commission's information material, on the detailed replies, on several extensive questionnaires, on the summaries of a large number of audit reports and on the audit reports themselves. the rapporteur, mr blak, has examined more than 60 documents, totalling several thousand pages, which the commission has sent to him for his report. the commission's action plan on the discharge procedure is one of the documents that is important for the whole process of the discharge procedure. in this document the commission sets out in detail the steps it is taking to respond to the court's criticism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this is also the case for the follow-up report - 48 pages in all - on the european parliament's discharge decision for the 1998 budget. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. actions based on this will be presented in a verifiable manner. the commission has already started the necessary work with parliament last year to implement the action plan for the european development fund. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs rühle, for her work and for clarifying that the discharge for the european development fund has not been rejected but postponed. the proposal to postpone discharge is of course regrettable for the commission, because the commission has extended its own examination of macroeconomic aid to africa, for example, to a considerable extent, in order to get to the bottom of some of the problems in this area. mrs rühle recognised that these were steps in the right direction. the management of the european development fund is certainly no worse than the management of development aid from the eu budget. but in any case i can assure the rapporteur, mrs rühle, that the commission will now make good use of the time available to it to complete the documents requested and to take the necessary steps. i should also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs van der laan, and the rapporteur, mr seppänen. the ecsc treaty expires next year, but research activities will continue. in this respect, the test remarks are also of great importance. my objective and the commission's objective is to improve financial management, to reduce fraud, to avoid errors, whether purely formal or those with budgetary implications, and to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the use of public funds. these are very important objectives which require joint efforts to achieve. this is above all a joint effort between the commission and the member states, as 83% of the eu budget is managed by the member states. you're in charge of primary control. we have now also discussed these responsibilities of the member states at length in the ecofin council. i cannot say that i am completely satisfied with the member states' responses to the court's report, but at least we now have more detailed information on what the member states have done in recent years to combat fraud. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to take the example of export refunds in the agricultural sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is not only relying on its own audits, but also on the member states' own pockets of money, by which i mean the instrument of financial sanctions, that is to say, the reduction of payments to the member states. this sometimes - or even relatively often - leads to long and sometimes legal disputes. i do not think that this discredits the instrument, but that is the way it is in a state governed by the rule of law. the commission must then also try to enforce its position by legal means. the issue of export refunds is another example of how the legal bases are sometimes so detailed and specific that they can act as a virtual incentive to fraudulent acts. the administrative reform therefore also decided to carry out a thorough fraud screening of commission proposals for regulations in future. i would also like to ask for the cooperation of parliament as legislator and the support of the committee on budgets in particular, because stricter control rules do not always meet with the enthusiastic approval of the competent committees or even of the countries concerned. cooperation with the legislator is essential for sound financial management. let me give you a very recent example. the council has now decided in stockholm - and this should be a positive thing, at least in the council's view - that the sixth research framework programme will be adopted in june 2002 but will start as early as 1 january 2003. but this time is simply not enough to carry out the tender and the preparatory measures properly. if this timetable continues to be in place, we will be faced with the same mistakes that were criticised by the court of auditors and, above all, by parliament in the last framework programme, and i believe that this must not happen again. we must learn from our mistakes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the decisions in question are those of the previous commission, covering the period 1991 to 1994. parliament has examined the case very carefully. the court of auditors has analysed the case in detail, uclaf and olaf have carried out various investigations, and the present commission has examined the case from all sides and has provided you, as discharge authority, with all the information at our disposal. we all agree that the situation of that time cannot be undone. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. since 1994, many regulations have changed. the regulation on the clearance of accounts procedure in the field of agricultural policy was amended, and the clearance of accounts department in the responsible directorate-general was organisational separated. in 1995 the regulation on the protection of financial interests was adopted, and the so-called black list was introduced, on which member states are required to place companies which have acted with gross negligence or intentionally to the financial detriment of the eu. mr blak is calling for an improvement in the procedure for drawing up this black list. i can assure you that we have this in preparation as well. then, as an important step, olaf was set up as an independent community investigative body. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the commission will be able to issue refunds in full or in part only if the director-general responsible so decides, and in particular if the decision to waive the refund is justified. in cases of doubt, the commission must decide. in the course of the debate the commission also promised parliament that it would set clear, sound and transparent guidelines for the application of the administrative and legal principle of proportionality. that was the long answer to the question: would the commission today treat a similar case in the same way? the short answer is no! it will do differently today in similar cases. the commission's administrative reform has the clear objective of improving financial management. the commission has also been asked to provide the necessary information to the member states on the implementation of the directive. we are improving the implementation of the spending programmes and we are strengthening the control network and we are not hesitating to impose financial sanctions. the 10-point blacklist in this report on reform will help us take these further steps. i can assure you on behalf of the commission that parliament's decision to grant discharge on time will be a strong incentive for the commission to implement the reforms and not to slacken its efforts. (applause from the centre)
adopted by the commission on 27 june. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the decision to the period from 1 january 1999 to 31 december 2000. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commissioner has said that this budget is a broad-based budget. this broad spectrum of european funds includes foreign policy. the committee also welcomes the fact that the commission has taken the initiative to present a proposal for a regulation on the european union's external action programme for the period 2007-2013. the committee on foreign affairs has therefore placed great importance on ensuring that the decisions taken by parliament are implemented. we cannot have billions of euros not being spent every year because the services, the cooperation with the directorate-general, are not working. that is our criticism in this budgetary procedure. there have been restructuring in the new commission. europe aid has been set up and we hope that this will also speed up the implementation of the programmes adopted by parliament in the future. but at the same time we expect the commission not to set up a new implementation organisation of its own but to draw on the competence of the member states, which should also be active in this area. we want the political control of all these programmes to be in europe, but we also want the money that is provided to be flowing. in one year we will be measuring you by what you have done with the many new jobs created, and in the next budgetary procedure - also in the discharge procedure - this question will certainly be relevant again.
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. - mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities considers that the results of budget implementation in the area of the equal opportunities requirement have been satisfactory. however, we do not have a policy for gender mainstreaming, i.e. the principle of taking the objective of equal opportunities for men and women into account throughout all policy areas. we therefore call on you to give this policy area a further high priority and to carry out a gender-based evaluation of expenditure, particularly in the area of the structural funds, the research programme and all investments in the information society. i think it is important that we get accurate data on where the funds are going, and that is why the committee on women is asking the court of auditors to draw up a special report on how gender mainstreaming is being implemented. we had this in '98; the report was a good source of political information at the time. we can then base our policy more strongly on it.
chairman of the committee on budgetary control. - mr president, i have to go. the commission is to receive discharge for 1999 this week. the committee on budgetary control recommended it last week by a large majority. it follows the suggestion of our rapporteur, mr freddy blak, to whom i would like to express my gratitude for his excellent work here. the recommendation was made last week, however, in the expectation that the commission would make some points clear. i know that the decision of some of my colleagues in the house and also my own depends on this. what is it about? i have four keywords. the first is the fléchard case. mrs schreyer, you have just made it clear that the commission would not be doing this today. i am pleased to note this. i would like to remind you that, although it was good that you all came to us in committee - and i thank you very much for that - it was a little painful that you were not able to come up with such a clear answer in committee. it would have made things easier for both of us. but i have to say that we're looking to the future, that we're building trust better by being open than by talking about it and basically not knowing what we're supposed to understand about it. my second keyword is the declaration of reliability. for the sixth consecutive year, the court has given a negative opinion, despite some improvements in some areas. it is not enough for the commission to say that it is doing its utmost, after parliament's repeated calls for a reduction in the error rate. no, we want facts here. the das must be positive by the year 2002. parliament is prepared to work with the commission and the court of auditors towards this objective. the third keyword is access to information. the hopes of many in the framework agreement between the commission and parliament have been disappointed. i was skeptical from the beginning, but as chairman of the committee i made sure that the provisions of the agreement were strictly adhered to. however, the commission has not yet provided all the information requested. the long list of reports requested but not received in the annex to mr blak's report speaks for itself. as a commission, mrs schreyer, you are cutting into your own flesh. i am sure that you cannot count on parliament to come to you and defend itself against unjustified attacks if you do not first provide us with the necessary information. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the prosecutor will initially be responsible for fraud cases within the european institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in this case, the introduction would be possible immediately and without any prior amendment of the treaties. this is what the five wise men recommended in their report on the reform of the commission and also what the olaf monitoring committee recommended. parliament had given the commission until the end of march to make its views known on this matter. mrs schreyer, i asked you about this in the last part-session. can i finally get a clear statement from you today? five other reports by the committee on budgetary control are available for discharge. i congratulate all the rapporteurs on their excellent work. the follow-up report on the 1998 discharge of mrs stauner deserves special attention. we must scrupulously examine whether our demands from last year have been met by the commission in order to strengthen mutual trust, openness and accountability. unfortunately, there are still some open points, such as the question of positive das, but also the question of informing parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report by mr folias is thoughtful and coherent. there are no amendments. i express my highest appreciation and approval. the reports by mrs van der laan and mr seppänen were adopted positively in committee. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, the framework agreement on the transmission of information to parliament has been mentioned in several speeches. i can clearly point out that the social democrats in the committee on budgetary control have a good record in the current vote by roll call in accordance with parliament's freedom of information. perhaps this does not apply to every group in this chamber. but i think it is appropriate to point out that. a word to the commission. you should be aware that we take this seriously and that we expect the commission to make every effort to produce a positive declaration of assurance in 2003. in anticipation of what has been said about some of the amendments for tomorrow - they were not in writing at the beginning of the afternoon sitting - i say that we will not, however, participate in the introduction of an automatic system which, as it were, makes us, as a parliament, relinquish our own right as the decision-making body on discharge and turn us into a kind of secretariat of the court of auditors. i think the epp must also clarify this for itself. it is not possible to put forward proposals which amount to introducing such an automatic system and at the same time - as mrs theato does on several occasions - to stress in committee meetings the political discretion in the allocation of discharge. there is a clear contradiction, which a group must then resolve on its own. we will not, in any case, give up parliament's right to decide on discharge. i have a different view of mr heaton-harris's contribution to the debate. if the court of auditors does not officially announce - and it has done so - an error rate, then we can regret that, we can discuss that with the court of auditors. but what is relevant to parliament as an institution is that he did not do that. we as a parliament are not the arbiter of internal disputes in the court of auditors and we are not to judge what individual members of the court of auditors tell other people in corridors where the error rates are. if there are, we expect the court of auditors to make a clear statement in this respect. but, mr heaton-harris, you have made a point which i agree with, and the commission should take note of it. the political nature of the discharge procedure, to which i have just referred, does not guarantee that there will be a pile - drawn up indefinitely, so to speak - on which the commission can collect and pile up unfulfilled commitments. it can be set on fire by some spark like a pyre, completely uncontrolled. you are quite right about that. i do not agree with you, however, in your little attempt to seduce parliament by saying that you can refuse to grant discharge, since there are no legal consequences, since there is nothing in the treaty to do so. i would remind you that there are differences of opinion in your group on this subject. i have received the express support of your group when i said that since the events of 1998/99, this annual discharge procedure has taken on a political character. it is an annual vote of confidence in the commission, and so there is a little more involved in refusing to grant discharge than simply saying, 'you can do that, there are no legal consequences!' i think everyone in this chamber is aware of the political consequences of a refusal of discharge under the present circumstances. it is for these reasons that we shall be giving discharge tomorrow, following the statements made by the commission today.
chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development. - mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we feel that this is a little late. these measures should perhaps have been taken in peacetime, as i like to call it. the commission's negligence, as well as that of some member states, in regard to the risk of disease was blatant, and one gets the impression that there was no provision for the establishment of a joint control plan. it seemed that politicians were making radical demands and giving directives, but i did not think they were very effective in combating the disease. but the real issue, of course, is the question of cloning or vaccination? i must make it clear to the house that this is not about returning to prophylactic permanent vaccination, but about whether the outbreak of the disease can now be contained by emergency, ring and preventive vaccinations. the question then arises: what happens to the animals? they've approved the vaccination, but with the condition that it be cultured. you've been talking about this a little bit in your talk today, so let's be clear about it: this is outrageous! the healthy animals vaccinated do not need to be cultured to contain the disease and can be sent for recycling. there are countries that show that they are exporting - like argentina, among others, to the european union - even though they have cases of foot-and-mouth disease in their countries. yet they are not carriers of the disease. we expect you - and i hope the resolution will show this tomorrow - not to keep bringing arguments to us here about why the vote must be taken - i have heard that from your subordinate batches! it takes all the imagination to say why this must be, but little imagination to get away from this rigid, gagged posture. i expect you to explain how you want to negotiate internationally, so that we can come to a reasonable disease control and still trade with third countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the vaccination is not just an emotional problem ... (the president cut the speaker off) (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. the outbreak in the uk and its spread to the mainland make it clear that the current strategy is clearly not capable of stopping the plague. i don't think we're over the hill here. the commission, following the first outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease, has been in favour of the slaughter of lambs and burning of the burnt offerings and has not been enthusiastic about other methods of controlling foot-and-mouth disease which could have been decided upon in the context of national decisions. a great political adventure, i think, because the costs and benefits are hard to explain. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. vaccination in the early days of the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease would have saved a lot of money, but most importantly, it would have saved a lot of personal suffering. an estimated 200 million farm animals are carted through the eu every year. tracing this chain of trade is always problematic and uncertain in the necessary time sequence. even in normal years - without the bse and mcs crisis - the error rates are high. the common agricultural policy is a heavy steamer which, once set in motion, is difficult to stop. it would therefore have been necessary to apply several practicable alternatives to combat mcs. the present form is a sign of mediocrity and unreason - i am glad that this is to be changed! beef consumption has been cut in half. prices are down, and monthly wages can no longer be earned by cattle production. the compensation programme proposed by commissioner fischler should be supplemented by an item 8, namely the abolition of the penalty bonus for the milk quota. this makes sense, since livestock sales have been stopped. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis. even relatives are staying home. it will take years to put all this back together in what is called a reset program. after all, no beef is produced overnight. vaccination must be used more effectively as a standard tool for disease control throughout europe. the aim is to ensure that naturally vaccinated ungulates and their products are marketable, i.e. can be marketed without any restrictions on trade. it is essential to develop tests to distinguish vaccinated animals from infected ones. the commission should then be able to give the national governments more latitude than it has hitherto in the area of disease prevention and control.
- mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is quite clear that no one can think of a universal vaccination today, not least because there are not enough doses of vaccine available. i would also add that lack of hygiene and precautions cannot be covered up by vaccination. but it seems equally clear today that the first major test of the new mfi policy since the introduction of the single market is turning out to be a disaster. i would add, commissioner, with all seriousness, that international agreements - binding, even self-imposed, binding by ioe criteria - mean, on the other hand, that no one in europe can stand the continuation of the policy of the past, neither the commission nor the other european institutions! the mere constant culling of flocks is neither intelligent nor effective in the long run. i would add, commissioner, that the issues of animal welfare, the principle of the guarantee of property and also the principle of proportionality, which is part of the constant case law of the european court of justice, are touched upon here. that is why i think it is good that those affected start to clarify these legal issues in the high court. and, commissioner, the question of how to proceed with a new strategy which does not simply abandon proven elements of prophylaxis is linked to the question of what the commission has done to implement the report of the scientific committee of march 1999 with regard to the regionalisation negotiations at international level, with regard to the validation of the test and with regard to the evaluation of the criteria for the need for emergency vaccination, including in vulnerable regions. we will fight for this with all our strength and determination! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. mr byrne, i disagree with you on one essential point, namely that we are not discussing measures after the crisis. i don't agree with that at all. i am convinced that if you do not talk today, when all the member states are still trembling with the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease, about what will happen tomorrow and the day after, you will again have the situation where the member states will relax once things have calmed down. so today is the time for you to do things differently. today, for example, is the time to work with your colleague fischler to ensure that a tracking system for sheep and pigs is introduced immediately, that premium payments are not linked to deadline schemes. it is therefore not necessary to transport sheep and pigs across the european union so that they are at the right place at the right time, so that money is available for them. i also believe that you must finally be brave and throw a stone into the water. why don't you say that transport of live animals is prohibited! any transport of live animals must be carried out under a derogation. why can't animals be transported after being slaughtered? try this! why do you not say today, at this time: we need a different policy on epidemics! sit down with the iue in paris and say that international disease policy needs to be changed today, along with all the other partners involved in the iue. so, in conclusion, what do you have against giraffes? a lot of people have asked me, what's the commissioner got against giraffes? why does he forbid zoos from vaccinating people? why is he making sure that all the zoos are closed or the zoos in the european union are afraid of an outbreak of whatever it is because we have not had a decent disease policy and suddenly animals have to be killed? so, mr. byrne, why don't you tell us what you have against giraffes? please be so kind as to take action today. be brave today, and don't wait until the day after tomorrow. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. in 1991, i voted in this house with other colleagues against the abolition of vaccination at that time. i believe that we are being forced to think about the whole of enlargement to the east. last week, 4,000 animals were pre-culled in my region. dutch pigs had come from the restricted areas. as of 2 p.m. today, foot-and-mouth disease may have reached germany - my home country, münsterland - on the dutch border. if this suspicion is confirmed, mr commissioner, then the disease has broken out in germany in an area known as the meat belt in north rhine-westphalia. the eu's non-vaccination policy has always been based on exports to third countries. my question to you, mr byrne, is this strategy not a failure? i ask you what europe gains financially from exporting, and i ask you what this epidemic is costing europe. the commission should put these figures on the table for the council. i have already called for this two weeks ago in the committee on agriculture. put the numbers on the table and do it quickly. the council should then decide and the council should then be accountable for its policy. the european parliament will certainly set out its views on this in the resolution tomorrow. i'm for emergency, ring and prophylactic vaccination, and i'm for it now. i think the current situation is putting the farmers to the limit of their mental strength. where is the ethical responsibility of our politicians in europe? i would ask you very sincerely, commissioner, to give us answers to the questions put and not to present the prepared text which you have already brought, otherwise this whole debate will be useless! thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i do not wish to delay the progress of the matter, but in view of what has been said at the end, i would very much like to ask the commission to document to us at the next committee meeting the internal and external activities it has undertaken to ensure that the recommendation of the scientific committee on animal health and welfare of 10 march 1999 is anchored in both commission policy and at international level. i would ask that we receive a full report on this at the next committee meeting. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i just want to ask when the proper question period will begin with the preliminary questions. it was scheduled for 6:00.
- mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. two short questions. firstly, may 9 should also convince the young people of the european union that their future lies in the euro area. what are you doing, what is the commission doing, what are you discussing with the member states so that a european project day will be held in all schools this year? will you take a specific initiative there? secondly, how can we help to strengthen consumer confidence and avoid the risk of distortions in the price of goods and services and the lack of transparency in the calculation of prices from a consumer protection point of view? thirdly, will you continue the euro information campaign with the member states at least in the first half of next year and in what form?
the commission - mr president, i would like to make the following comments to mrs randzio-plath: firstly, as regards the activities for 9 may, as you know, in cooperation with the president of the eurogroup, it has been agreed to communicate to the ecofin in malmö the 9 may initiative on schools, and the commission will print 400 000 small passports which our delegations will make available to schools, so that schoolchildren can begin to get in touch with this situation. secondly, from the point of view of consumer price difficulties, we make some references in this communication to what might be useful to ensure that the rounding of the price of products does not prove advantageous to the seller. we even insist that the rounding ups carried out by the national administrations, for example in the payment of taxes - and this is what the belgian administration has done - should be downwards and not upwards, so that the public administrations are the first to demonstrate that the euro should not have inflationary effects, but exactly the opposite. thirdly, as regards information campaigns, the basic and fundamental problem - as you know - is that they are national. this means that part of the 2002 funds can be used to finance some of the commitments already in existence. the campaigns have not been conducted solely according to the physical years. but if there are any remaining resources, we should certainly think seriously about using them to send the political message that the euro is a change of habits and that it is fundamental to the process of european integration. i would first of all say to mrs thyssen that i agree with her that small and mediumsized businesses and consumers will not adapt until the last minute. whether or not tax advantages exist is a matter for each member state to decide. the subsidiarity principle applies here and it is not for us to intervene in this matter. we have insisted, as a matter of good practice, that the debits made by central banks to commercial banks, the financial advantage which results from the charge on the currency, should be partly transferred to companies, so that this type of operation does not entail an additional cost for companies. as regards the coins, it is obvious what you are saying. we have not given any thought to the possibility of coin collecting, but it is the element that will initially be used most rapidly. i take note of your proposal that such an initiative should be taken at local level, which could be useful - as you say - to devote it to a good cause.
- mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. one question: the need for this information campaign is certainly not limited to the twelve future euro countries. in central and eastern europe in particular, we have billions of dollars in circulation, mainly in dm, and in parts of the balkans too, the dm is either an official or de facto means of payment. the people there are also confronted with the euro from one day to the next. my question is: how do you intend to convey the information there? do you work with the national banks in the country? are these also intended to serve as distribution centres? how do you intend to prevent any bad businessmen from defrauding the people there with their way of exchanging money? i think there's a great need.
commission. – we have been quite careful in calibrating and prioritising what we are doing with the aim of getting as close as possible to the biggest groups in need affected by the conflict in chechnya. we are also funding the logistic operation of food and medicine into chechnya. the priorities on which we are working are the right ones. what you mention in your supplementary question sounds more like health support, not directed specifically to the victims of the conflict. in any case, the priorities which i indicated in my first response are the best available answer we can give now.
- i'm not going to tell you. i would like to ask whether you are now able to address the chechen people directly through the russian media, because i have read reports from echo that this access is not being granted by the russian government, particularly in the broadcasting sector? can you do that, and are you using that for humanitarian aid, to get in direct contact with the civilian population? i would like to ask you again, in addition, whether you think it is necessary for the commission to make official visits to the refugee camps in georgia and other neighbouring countries and to establish contacts there.
commission. - mr president, as parliament knows, and mr posselt in particular, for the member states bound by title 4 of the treaty establishing the european community, the principles relating to the control and surveillance of the external borders of the european union are governed by community law, in accordance with the protocol integrating the schengen acquis into the european union as decided by the treaty of amsterdam. in my opinion and in the commission's opinion, there are several reasons today for considering the creation of a european external border guard. several member states seem to be keen to deepen this approach in order to strengthen the means of combating illegal immigration. the countries applying for membership of the european union are destined, and i emphasize this, to participate in the full schengen and community acquis, including in the area of control of the union's external borders and the free movement of persons without internal border controls. even from the point of view of the development of community law, the function of external border controls is not to control people for the sole purpose of migration. they also want to ensure control of external borders in the fight against crime, the enforcement of customs regulations and the observance of certain technical regulations applicable to vehicles or dangerous or illicit goods. i can therefore confirm that the italian government has asked the commission to support a feasibility study on the possibility of creating a european border guard corps, an initiative which has been supported by several other member states and which has the sympathy of the commission. as you know, any decision on such a programme supported by the odysseus programme is up to the management committee. what i can tell you is that the commission supports the italian initiative. as regards the european police college, which was set up by the council decision of 22 december 2000 - to which, moreover, the european parliament contributed by means of mr posselt's report - i would like to say that as regards its organisation, the rules of procedure of the college will be submitted to the council for information. the seat of the secretariat of the european police college will be determined on the basis of a future council decision. the budget for its operation will also be fixed. i can tell you that the college's board of trustees approved its draft financial regulations on march 23. it will now have to be submitted to the council for approval. as regards the college's work programme, it is assumed that the college should not be used to finance existing national actions and that it should focus on a few priorities which are already being defined.
- mr president, i have to go. i thank you for your very precise and good answer, commissioner. i have only one further question: when do you think the feasibility study on a european border guard will be presented? you know that, on the basis of a report i submitted three years ago, it is also a proposal from this house to set up such a police force.
the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of women against discrimination on grounds of sex. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. first of all, i should like to thank mr trakatellis very warmly for his excellent report. but i should also like to thank the committee responsible for adopting all 16 amendments tabled by the committee on women's rights. this shows that this house is once again going much further than some member states with their national health policies. although we women make up the majority of the population and although the double and triple burden of work, family and caring for relatives has been shown to take a heavy toll on our health, women-specific aspects are still not given due consideration in health policy. our health care systems are generally gender-blind. the national reports usually do not include a breakdown by sex. we should be reminded that in europe and beyond, the majority of drug addicts are women, in germany it is 70%. we therefore urgently need a more robust data base across europe and, above all, a holistic view of health. gender policy must also be at the heart of health policy in research, prevention and treatment. the new health action programme can show the way. every 20 minutes a woman dies of breast cancer in europe. one in nine women get it. the likelihood of being affected increases year by year. however, breast cancer - if caught early and treated properly - is curable. that is why the order of the hour must be best practice here too. we need to ensure that not only are advances in early detection disseminated across the eu, but that, following the development of the european guidelines for mammography, best practice is also researched and disseminated for treatment.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the commission's proposal for a programme of action in the field of public health for 2001-06 is a well-intentioned attempt to overcome the fragmentation of european health policy into numerous individual programmes. the efforts of many colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection to bring forward a number of additional concerns, attempts to improve the commission's text, and the honest and hardworking efforts of our rapporteur, mr trakatellis, to take account of all these wishes, have not only given us many amendments but have, in my view, led to a text which is not acceptable in this form as an opinion of the european parliament. there are countless repetitions, double words, obscure passages, contradictory statements, demands which violate the principle of subsidiarity, despite the fact that the opposite is claimed. i have reservations about the substance of the commission's priorities, which are documented, among other things, by the allocation of funds. i can support the rapporteur's amendment on this point. but i still have the greatest reservations about the proposal, which is certainly well-intentioned in its ideological sense, calling on the commission to set up, develop and operate a centre for the coordination and monitoring of health care. i shall vote against all these amendments and i strongly protest that we are dealing with this report in the plenary this week, even though the translation was not presented until monday of this week. a framework programme could provide the necessary transparency of community health activities and the flexibility to set priorities on a timely basis. this would enable the limited resources available to be used in a meaningful and targeted way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
commission. – mr president, i should like to begin by thanking both mr galeote quecedo and mr gasòliba i böhm for the questions they have put which indeed touch on an important aspect of the internal market. may i begin by saying that the communication of 19 july 1997 on certain legal aspects concerning intra-eu investments to which both speakers made reference was adopted by the commission, as was the case for a series of other communications, on the basis of its exclusive competence stemming from its role as guardian of the treaties. as is specified in the communication itself, its objective is to indicate to national authorities and economic operators in member states how the commission interprets the provisions of the treaty on capital movements and the right of establishment in order to reduce the risk of divergent legal interpretations. the principles set out in that communication are essentially based on the jurisprudence of the court of justice of the european communities, which remains, of course, the sole competent institution to provide a definitive interpretation of community law. in accordance with article 56 of the ec treaty all restrictions on capital movements between member states, be they discriminatory or non-discriminatory, are prohibited. the communication, being devoted to intra-community investment, goes more deeply into the respect for this fundamental principle insofar as two specific forms of capital movements are concerned: the acquisition of domestic securities and direct investments. all restrictions applied to these capital movements can pose compatibility problems with, in particular, article 56 which deals with the free movement of capital, and article 43, which deals with freedom of establishment. the communication to which i referred a little while ago states that, in conformity with the very notion of direct investments, nationals of other member states of the european union should be free to acquire controlling stakes, exercise their voting rights attached to those stakes, and manage domestic companies under the same conditions as are laid down in a given member state for its own nationals. while the freedom of establishment and the free movement of capital are among the fundamental freedoms of the treaty, certain exceptions to the general rules exist which allow member states to impose certain restrictions. as far as the freedom of establishment is concerned these restrictions may be motivated by the exercise of official authority or on the grounds of public policy, public security or public health – article 46. as far as the free movement of capital is concerned they may be justified on the basis of requisite measures in the field of taxation, prudential supervision, or the use of declaration procedures, or by considerations in relation to public policy or public security – article 58. finally, member states may take measures which they consider necessary for the protection of the essential interests of their security which are connected with the defence sector – article 296. in accordance with the jurisprudence of the court of justice it is necessary to interpret those exceptions narrowly in order to satisfy the criterion of proportionality. all interpretation based on economic criteria should be excluded. an exception should not constitute a means of arbitrary discrimination or a disguised restriction on the freedom of movement of capital. in the light of the principles which i have just set out, and taking into account that the treaty is neutral insofar as the private or public nature of companies is concerned, it clearly appears that all restrictions aimed at preventing subsequent purchases by investors of other member states of controlling rights in privatised companies under the pretext that the capital of these investors is to different degrees in public ownership cannot be justified by the exceptions of the treaty in the area of capital movements or the rights of establishment, exceptions which i delineated a few moments ago. in conclusion, may i say that as members of this parliament may be aware, the commission will shortly have a debate on restrictions on intra-community investment.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the resolution we are discussing this evening raises two questions. the first is the problem of community legislation. if we look at the sources of community law, we have on the one hand the original law of the treaty and on the other directives and regulations adopted with the participation of the council and parliament. but in between has come what is often considered a source of law - the communications. we shall be discussing one of these communications today. commissioner, you have rightly pointed out that this communication is only an interpretation and is also based on the case law of the european court of justice. but it can often seem that the commission is the one who interprets the law alone, without the involvement of the council and the european parliament. the commission acts as the sole legislator, as was the case in ancient byzantium under emperor constantine. my legal teacher in freiburg sometimes referred to this commission procedure as the imperial-byzantine method of legislation. i therefore believe that in such important cases it is absolutely necessary that directives or regulations should be put forward and adopted, as they should be, with the involvement of parliament and the council. the problem we are discussing raises a second question, namely that of competition in the european community. liberalisation, the abolition of monopolies, is one of the success stories of the european union. in the telecommunications sector, we have seen that reducing costs and prices has actually brought benefits to citizens. but there is a very great danger here. we are faced with a situation where some liberalize and open up competition, but others do not. we can then observe that those who have not done so, on occasion even win with monopoly, as long as the others buy up, until the old, public monopoly has been replaced by a private monopoly. the citizens are still faced with a monopoly and are not benefiting from the benefits of liberalisation. i believe that the commission must take this fact more seriously in its future action.
president of the council. president. - the debate is closed. ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament! i will give my and the presidency's view of the stockholm summit. the meeting was divided into two parts: a follow-up to the lisbon process, a discussion on the union's external relations and a short discussion on agricultural policy. i would like to begin by commenting on the lisbon process. the lisbon summit gave a strong impetus to the union to create a competitive, world-leading, dynamic economy with social cohesion. at the stockholm summit we added four different areas to the lisbon process. firstly, the demographic developments in europe, which will have a strong impact on the social agenda that must be formulated for europe. the demographic challenge will eventually include both a fiscal problem and a shortage of labour. meeting this challenge is a common concern for all 15 member states. this will require major efforts, not least in the social field. we can therefore also link up with the social agenda which the french presidency launched so successfully in nice. demographic issues are thus added to the lisbon process. secondly, the biotechnology. in lisbon, the focus was on information technology. we must not forget this, it is still important, but we must also add biotechnology if we are to be a region and part of the world that leads economic development. this too must become a priority for the union. we must not give in to the difficult moral and ethical issues that are associated with this technology. they must also be addressed in our discussion. the third point we add is that we want a link between social development, economic development and ecological development, i.e. no sustainable social cohesion and no sustainable economic growth unless this is also based on an ecologically balanced social development. the fourth point we add is that the candidate countries will continue to participate in the lisbon process. these four elements are therefore added, but the lisbon process is clearly a process, a development. it is therefore important for us to realise that we do not get everything from the social agenda and economic liberalisation at once. it's going to be a gradual process. the european council in stockholm has given and reaffirmed this direction. the focus is on full employment and active welfare states. as regards economic liberalisation, we took another step forward in stockholm. it did not go as far as we as the presidency had wished, but it did take decisive steps in the right direction. firstly, there is the creation of a single european market for financial services. a major breakthrough in the area of financial services and venture capital was first achieved by the ecofin council meeting in stockholm, which was then confirmed by the european council. we also agreed to move forward with the directive on postal services. we also agreed to abolish the monopoly and open up the gas and electricity markets to competition. we have not got the timetable we had hoped for, but it will happen, and we stress our determination to go in that direction. the european council held an intensive debate on the following: if some member states open their markets to competition in the gas and electricity markets, it is an unsustainable situation in the long run for other member states to avoid doing so, because this eventually leads to a situation where some companies in monopoly markets create profits for themselves which are then used in market offensives in other countries which have opened their markets. it will build tensions in the union that will be difficult to manage. it is therefore important that we proceed with the liberalisation of the gas and electricity markets in the way we have proposed in principle, but it must also be done according to a timetable. in june, the question of european airspace will be raised again in gothenburg. we have made progress in this discussion and i hope that we will reach agreement on the single european sky before the end of the swedish presidency. in the economic field, we will also see the internal market directives transposed into national legislation, with 98.5% of the directives to be adopted by 2002. we also want to start a new round of wto negotiations. we have highlighted the importance of making all activities linked to eeurope safer. we also said in stockholm that we wanted to go ahead with the galileo project. it's important, you know. there are still some things that need to be clarified, for example as regards funding, but we believe that this is a project of social benefit that should be implemented as quickly as possible. as early as tomorrow, our transport ministers will discuss the matter further. we also decided that the distortive state aid in the single market will be reduced by 2003. to this end, a scoreboard will be set up and made available to all. this is essentially what was agreed at the discussions on economic issues held in stockholm. as i said, it's a step in the right direction, but it's not going to get us where we want to go. it is a process, and the direction of the process is unambiguous. it is the economic side of the lisbon process. the other side of the process is the social agenda. the europe that is emerging is not a europe that can be built only on the deregulation of markets, but there must also be an expression of the political will to distribute the growing wealth that exists in europe in a fair way, so that our citizens can live a rich life. the swedish presidency has sought to strike a balance between the conclusions of the stockholm meeting on economic liberalisation and social responsibility. on the social side, a new employment objective has been established: it is particularly important that we concentrate on those aged 55 and over in the european workforce. by 2010, 50% of this group will be employed, compared with 38% today. we have a new target for the general employment rate for 2005, namely 67% for all and 57% for women. by 2052, we will have measured childcare in europe to contribute to a social agenda that allows young men and women to combine the responsibilities of a professional career with those of family and children. in the field of gender equality, we are striving to create not only a social europe but also a modern europe. discriminatory pay differentials must be prevented. indicators of this are therefore highlighted to make these differences visible. the equal treatment directive is to be adopted and tightened up this year, which is also a result of the stockholm summit. the creation of quality jobs, i.e. the ability of people to stay in their jobs longer without being forced into early retirement, requires the development of workplaces so that people who are not fully healthy or fully capable find their place in working life. the transition from mass unemployment in europe to a situation of labour shortages and the continuation of economic growth requires the full exploitation of the experience of mature older people. the quality of workplaces must also be improved. the following are important to consider: lifelong learning, equality between men and women, how we treat all those who have come to europe in recent years, perhaps as refugees, i.e. the fight against segregation and discrimination also in the workplace. we will also return to a first evaluation of european pension systems in gothenburg. if there is one thing that weighs on ordinary wage earners, civil servants and workers, it is the question of having a secure livelihood in retirement. how do we manage pension systems in europe at a time when we see fewer and fewer people in working age and more and more people in retirement? this too should be discussed together in the context of open coordination. we shall return to this in gothenburg. this is the structure of the social agenda, and it is in this way that these two elements form a whole: economic liberalisation and modernisation on the one hand, social responsibility and solidarity on the other. this is how the policy is put together to make europe the most competitive, dynamic and socially cohesive region in the world. that's our vision. this was the subject of the lisbon process at the summit. in addition to the lisbon process, we discussed external relations. there were four main reasons. firstly, our relations with russia. president putin was invited to participate. he met the group of 15 heads of state or government in a direct discussion. at the same time as president putin met with us, foreign minister ivanov met with the foreign ministers. we have, of course, reiterated our concern about developments in chechnya and other phenomena in russian society which we do not accept. however, our main discussion was on economic developments in russia and the prospects for economic cooperation between russia and the european union. some concrete results were achieved: firstly, we are opening up the eib's lending to russia, albeit limited, but it is a breakthrough for environmental efforts. secondly, we will give russia all possible support in its preparations for wto membership. the wto opens up the russian market to fair competition and also opens up possibilities to resolve old trade conflicts that we have between the european union member states and russia. we want to give russia all the support we can in this process. thirdly, we have said that we want to take an active part in the forthcoming anniversary in st petersburg in 2003. it is a splendidly beautiful european city which is regaining its old beauty and certainly its old position in european cooperation. it is a clear signal from the european union that this is also our concern. this was raised during the discussion with president putin. i would stress that it was mainly economic, but we of course reiterated our concern about developments in chechnya. we also had a visit from president trajkovski of fyrom, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. he was invited more as a gesture of solidarity. when we, the heads of state and government, met, it was natural for us, in view of the crisis situation that was developing in macedonia at the time, to meet him and express our solidarity, but also to stress the importance of treating the different groups of the population in fyrom in such a way that they all feel that they have a place in society and a right to participate and be present. we also stressed the importance of avoiding violence, while allowing the foreign ministers to present concrete proposals in the field of aid. this is part of a balkan strategy. we are now ready to sign the stabilisation agreement for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in april. it will be followed by a similar agreement with croatia. this shows that the union has a role to play in the balkans, and that it is a future that is now beginning to emerge for people living in the balkans as well. president trajkovski's visit was an expression of our commitment to the balkans. i also received a mission from my colleagues to travel to the korean peninsula. it is done in the context of our wish to express our support for the process of reconciliation and détente now under way on the korean peninsula. there we have the last major, four-year conflict of the cold war and the aftermath of the second world war, with enormous suffering for the people involved and with enormous risks also from a military perspective. if we can do something to speed up the process and support it, that is of course our common concern. in this area too, the union was able to come together around common principles and common commitment and to give me the task of going there on behalf of the union, together with javier solana and chris patten, sometime during this six-month period, and to discuss directly with the political leaders of both the north and the south: about the process, about human rights, about de-escalation and disarmament. the fourth foreign policy issue discussed was the situation in the middle east, which is always present in the daily lives of all politically engaged europeans. the middle east is our neighboring region. we have a huge responsibility to ensure that the peace process is restarted. peace and security are thus indivisible. war, conflict and destruction in the middle east are something that affects us too. all of us in the union, no matter what country we live in, have a deep, personal commitment to this part of the world. the union's member states enjoy excellent bilateral relations with the region and often with both sides of the conflict. however, the union has not played a major role in initiating solutions to the conflict or in various types of measures to deal with the pain experienced by people in the middle east on a daily basis. in stockholm we asked javier solana to come back at the latest to the summit in gothenburg, preferably earlier, on how the union can increase its presence and improve its activities in the region, how the union can contribute to the resumption of the peace process - of course, with the united states, but always on the basis that it is the parties to the conflict who must make an appeal, a request for participation. it's not unusual for a petition like this to come in. the union must also be prepared to assume its responsibilities. these were the four issues on the international agenda - a practical but modest way of expressing a common foreign policy within the union. madam president, i would like to thank you. we also discussed the situation of european agriculture. we expressed solidarity with those affected, we expressed confidence in the veterinary authorities and in the ability of our agriculture ministers to deal with the situation, we stressed the importance of safe food and we said that the european budget in this context is already fixed or locked. we did not think that we would be in a position to have a debate on agricultural policy in stockholm, in the circle of heads of state or government. we believe that our agriculture ministers have already done so. preparations are also under way for a review of the european agricultural policy for 2003. in this context, we had no reason to start a big debate, but we wanted to express our solidarity with those affected and, of course, also to show that we are aware that we have agricultural ministers, veterinary authorities and a commission that is doing an excellent job in this context. finally, we also touched on the state of play in the climate negotiations. it is unacceptable that any party should withdraw from the kyoto negotiations. (applause from the centre) ) the kyoto negotiations are the instrument we have to deal with the change in the basic conditions of life that the climate represents. when we see that this signal is being sent, especially in the united states, it is not possible for us to accept it. i have written to the president of the united states with the president of the commission to express our concern. the swedish environment minister is currently in the united states with the commissioner responsible for environmental affairs and will then go on to iran, japan and china to hold talks there too. we also have every reason to emphasize the statement adopted by the stockholm european council as a supplement to the conclusions, so that the kyoto protocol applies. this is the process we should be adhering to. this is, in short, what was discussed at the stockholm summit, a meeting which, in a way, once again became the everyday life of the union. we returned to questions that affect people in their daily lives. we've had an intense period of a lot of internal accountability. the french presidency successfully resolved questions about the future decision-making and accountability of the union. now we are lifting the perspective again and aiming at things that affect people directly in their daily lives. there were not successes in all areas, but there is no doubt about the direction the union is moving in. that's what politics is all about: compromise, step by step, and you get results. this is also the ambition we have had with the swedish presidency. i am also very confident in my belief that the presidency which will be handling the follow-up next spring, spain, will make some further steps forward. in this way we create the union we have dreamed of, a union that is dynamic, successful and socially cohesive. we realize that we cannot survive without considering the ecological conditions. (applause) i would like to thank you.
president of the commission. - madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, the last time i spoke before this house was to present the first 'spring report' of the commission to the european council. as you will recall, our report takes stock of the progress made by europe in implementing the economic and social agenda agreed in lisbon. the stockholm summit was the first summit specifically devoted to assessing this progress and setting priorities for the next 12 months. i would like to take this opportunity to thank prime minister persson for the firmness, calmness and energy with which he chaired and organized the stockholm proceedings. i also very much appreciated the opportunity he offered us to meet president putin and discuss with him the partnership between the european union and russia. this meeting was very encouraging and confirmed russia's strategic role. president putin has assured us that russia and the european union share common values. for our part, we have made it clear that we want to contribute to russia's full integration into our community of values; we want to identify the most appropriate instruments of cooperation, not only in the economic, environmental and energy fields but also in defence, security and the safeguarding of democratic rights. in this respect, while we welcomed yesterday's announcement of a further reform programme, we cannot hide our concern at the current trend towards progressive government control of the television system. the discussion, as prime minister persson said, focused mainly on economic reforms in russia, but also looked at the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the european council, as expected, assured president trajkovski of its full support for the territorial integrity of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, and at the same time, however, the union asked president trajkovski to take account of the demands of the albanian minority in his country. it would be a mistake, however, to allow the current crisis in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to divert us from our objective of promoting greater integration of that country with the european union. the forthcoming signing of the first stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is in line with this approach. i would like to stress that the credibility of the european union depends to a large extent on our ability not only to set political and strategic objectives but also to act quickly and effectively on the ground. at the same time, we must work for the long-term stability of the balkan region, and that means using all the instruments at our disposal to achieve the gradual integration of the whole region into the european union. milosevic's exit from the scene marks an important step in this direction, putting an end to years of hatred and war. i would now like to return to the debate on the economic and social agenda in the european council. i agree with prime minister persson that there was a climate of legitimate optimism among the heads of state and government in stockholm. a year ago in lisbon, in the face of the strength of the american economy, we still had a kind of inferiority complex. today, things have changed and we can see that europe is in a strong position in three respects. first of all, we have started to modernise our economy. secondly, we have a social agenda which aims to rebuild the european social model without distorting its character. thirdly, we are seriously working towards sustainable development which also includes the environmental dimension. the position recently adopted by the united states on this matter is worrying. our concern was reflected in a letter, signed by prime minister persson and myself, to president bush. in any case, europe must continue to act consistently and it has an obligation to take the lead in this very important area. a month ago, before this house, i had the opportunity to insist on the problem of the distribution of labour and social exclusion. it is therefore necessary to intensify our efforts to modernise the european social model in the framework of the nice agenda. i would like to stress again the need for clearer strategies to deal with the issue of our ageing society. this is precisely the commitment the commission has made by announcing the presentation of a communication on the quality and sustainability of pensions in the light of demographic change. the commission therefore urged the european council to commit the member states to taking the initiative in at least six key areas where new impetus is needed. first of all, we still need to improve skills and training in information technology. last wednesday, the commission also adopted the e-learning action plan, which includes specific measures for teacher training and partnerships between schools, businesses and industry. secondly: i have a feeling that you're right. in stockholm i presented the european council with the picture of the situation, including the new commitment from the private sector to provide immediate financing of eur 200 million. this means that there must be no more reason for hesitation on the part of the member states. the heads of state and government have unanimously given a clear political commitment to the rapid implementation of this project. i would also like to take this opportunity to reiterate that this is no longer the time for equivocation: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what the prime ministers decide should be implemented by the sectoral ministers who are to preside over the practical implementation of the projects. (applause) i would like to thank thirdly, the financial markets. the commission has long advocated the need for an integrated financial market at european level. we need a regulatory system that allows us to keep up with this rapidly changing market. i am therefore pleased that the council has stressed the importance of this sector and its enormous potential in terms of job creation and cost reduction. as recommended, a european committee on tendering will be set up, chaired by the commission. this body will act as a regulatory committee and will assist the commission in deciding on the measures to be taken to give practical effect to the legislative acts agreed between the council and parliament in codecision. we will thus be able to intensify our efforts to achieve an integrated securities market, which is one of the main shortcomings of our internal market. the commission will therefore be putting forward important proposals in this field before the summer, and i call on this house to examine these proposals swiftly. i think it is necessary that the debate on this matter should continue under the codecision procedure and the qualified majority voting procedure. fourthly, the community patent. progress in this field has been met by concerns in some states about various aspects, ranging from language to the reduction of revenue from national patent offices. i must say that these national positions seem to be contrary to the interests of their own economic operators, who then insistently ask us for a simple, clear and competitive european patent. i sincerely hope that this situation can be resolved. the council and parliament must take concrete steps to implement the commitments made in lisbon. fifth: the single european sky. as is well known, a number of important proposals are currently on hold pending a bilateral agreement between spain and the united kingdom on gibraltar. the commission, for its part, will not fail to contribute to a speedy solution of this problem. the two member states have agreed to resume discussions on this subject. sixth , the postal services. they must be deregulated by the end of 2001, and the liberalisation of energy markets will continue on the basis of the proposals we have already put forward, which are extremely clear and precise. with regard to the demographic challenge, the european council recognised the importance of ensuring the long-term sustainability of public finances, social services, health care and pensions. in any case, the issue of sustainability will have to be addressed in the context of a wider european strategy for sustainable development, which will be one of the main topics of the gothenburg summit in june. in addition, the commission will in future integrate sustainable development in its annual spring report. the commission will be presenting a single report at the next spring summit - and this is a very important point - in order to make the preparatory work more transparent and clearer. we are therefore in favour of the introduction of a european system of taxation, which is a very important one. ladies and gentlemen, stockholm has provided us with a very good basis for guiding our action over the next 12 months. i've said it before and i'll say it again: there is no other way of winning public support for the european project than by effective action by the european union. the best way to lose that support is to multiply unfulfilled promises. we must close the gap between rhetoric and reality in europe. it is certainly useful and undoubtedly necessary to agree on objectives, to set up task forces, to develop indicators and strategic visions, but what counts are the facts: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the following issues: facts such as the recruitment and training of teachers; the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. and that's why we're doing things like government and industry interventions to invest in people. the citizens want a europe that delivers on its promises, and the commission will continue to do so with energy and dedication: but it is up to all of us, all the institutions, especially the european parliament, the member states and the social partners, to ensure that after stockholm our words are translated into action. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. mr president of the european council, our group welcomes your presence here today. if you appear before the plenary after the gothenburg summit, which we can of course expect, then you have been here three times. that's a good sign. i hope that future presidencies will follow suit. but don't get your hopes up too soon, because there's also some criticism. but i want to say again that we're very happy to have you here. we also understand that your presence here today - after three months at least - is the beginning for you personally to start a dialogue with all the political groups in the european parliament, as we have already done with your foreign minister and also with mr danielsson. but i hope today is a start for you, too. you have a great chance in the remaining three months to do what sweden stands for, which is transparency. we are currently negotiating access to documents. i ask you to take action and take the lead in the council so that we can get a parliament-friendly result, that is to say, that parliament can be satisfied with the result achieved with the council. i'm asking you to take action. (applause from the centre) the stockholm summit, like the lisbon summit, used very ambitious language, which i think is a bit excessive. a little more modesty would do us all good. the union is said to be the most competitive and dynamic science-based economy in the world. if you choose such sophisticated words, then you must of course be measured by actions. you yourself have said critically that we regret that the postal services and the energy markets have not been opened and that no date has been set for this opening. i can tell you frankly that this was because a certain member state, france, did not want a date and the federal republic of germany has agreed to it. this is a partnership in denial and blockade! this is not how we envisage the franco-german partnership. it is not intended to prevent something, but to move europe forward. i call on the french and german governments to do so. (applause from the centre) mr president of the european council, you are not considered to be a fan of the community method. they love cooperation between governments. but that is precisely what we are getting into by emphasizing cooperation between governments rather than the community method! then we'll get to the blockade. it is the small countries that are the ones who are suffering in the end because the big ones dominate this europe and do not move it forward! (applause from the centre) we welcome the progress made in the area of securities markets and financial services. we also thank you for your commitment, but we say very clearly - and we say this to both the council and the commission: we expect the european parliament's legislative rights to be respected and to be adequately involved in future legislative decisions. we shall insist on this, and we shall do so to both sides, to the council and to the commission. a critical remark on the question of foreign policy problems, mr president of the european council. yesterday we had the widow of andrei sakharov, yelena bonner, in the group. when she joined our group, the news was just coming in that the last free television station in russia was going to be taken over by the state. this is totally unacceptable to us. freedom of the press and media is one of the foundations of democracy, not only in the european union but also in russia. what mr putin, the president of russia - i welcome your invitation - said on television about chechnya was an insult not only to the people of chechnya but to human dignity in general. we would have appreciated it if you had immediately contradicted him in front of the media representatives! (applause from the centre) we take what is happening in russia very seriously, because we share your view that stability in europe in the 21st century is only possible if we have a strong, capable european union on the one hand and a stable, and hopefully democratic, russia on the other. russia is not only symbolized by the beautiful city of st petersburg - i agree with you - but the russia of the future is symbolized by the existence of democracy, freedom of the press and human rights. we must also make this very clear to the russian leadership. i would like to mention one other point, namely the developments in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i strongly support the fact that the high commissioner, javier solana, and chris patten, member of the european commission, as well as the swedish foreign minister, anna lind, as president-in-office of the council, are putting a priority to their work here and all of them are obviously working well together, despite all the complications of the institutions that this entails. but that's not what we're talking about. the test of our ability to contribute to peace and stability here is the former yugoslavia. if we fail to do so, we may give up any claim to participation in world politics! we must set our priorities in europe, and especially now in the former yugoslavia. i come to my final point. you will have the president of the united states, george w. bush, with you in gothenburg. our group is a close friend and partner of the united states of america. we always have been. we are also telling our american friends that we will not accept america's withdrawal from the kyoto protocol. we are very critical of this. we accept that america demands that we share the burden of security and defence policy and that we europeans do more. but there is also a burden-sharing in environmental protection. we cannot leave responsibility to some countries while others shy away from responsibility. the burden sharing also applies to environmental policy. (applause from the centre) i would encourage you to raise your voice clearly: we stand for europe and our values. if you continue to succeed in gothenburg, hopefully even more than in stockholm, then it will be our common success. i wish you and us the same success. (applause from the centre)
, chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. - madam president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission! the welcome spring awakening at the stockholm summit is welcome from the point of view of this parliament. because one thing is clear: the spring summit will be the normal exercise in the future, so that we can not only bet on a future-oriented, knowledge-based society, but actually live in it. we need an ambitious strategy for change, as agreed in lisbon. we need to tone them down and make them dynamite. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must not underestimate the successes achieved in 2000 with strong growth, sound finances, low inflation and interest rates and the creation of 2.5 million new jobs. they are in favour of continuing the process of open coordination and of linking economic, employment and social policies. we must stick to this, otherwise there will be no further progress. we must also incorporate this in the specific guidelines for economic policy for 2001. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. the european summit rightly focuses on economic reforms, well-functioning markets and regulation, where quality standards are essential in the interests of the people. it is therefore welcome that the summit was not only a liberalisation and deregulation summit, but also a summit that focuses on pan-european regulation where it is needed in the interests of universal service provision, distributive equity and consumer protection. the promotion of entrepreneurial initiatives, with a particular focus on small and medium-sized enterprises and the risk capital and start-up financing they need, is also just beginning. it is right that the eu summit should also give due weight to the importance of research, innovation and new technologies in creating jobs and wealth. in this context, it is clear that the analysis and use of public finances and their quality - including that of public aid - need to be more closely monitored in terms of their employment impact. i think we also need to invest more in people and in better quality jobs. the commission has also proposed that the european employment strategy should be revised to take account of the new challenges facing the european union. mr president-in-office of the council, the presidency promises more democracy and transparency in economic policy. but where do they stand in the context of the financial action plan and the regulation of the securities markets? the european parliament wants flexibility and speed in the area of legislation - as do you - and welcomes the lamfalussy report. we insist, however, on full transparency and also on respecting the symmetry between the institutions in the codecision procedure. we as the european parliament want the same rights as the council now has. we are not going to be able to do that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission and the council can be of real help here. i urge you to do so. (applause from the centre)
chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! let me ask you three questions: is not what we have seen in the great crises in macedonia ultimately a consequence of the lack of coordination of our policy in kosovo? is it not because we have not been able to really carry out our tasks there, because the ccp has not been disarmed, because there is a fragmentation of responsibilities between many international organisations and within the european union itself, and because we are not doing our jobs, the crisis is spreading? i have a second question. mr president-in-office of the council, although this is not your responsibility now, just as a result of this summit, how do you think the future of the council and the european councils with 27 members will be after enlargement, when every detail is discussed in the european council? the european council was created to allow the leaders to discuss matters of principle. now there are 30, 40, 50 items on the agenda. the european council has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the third point i would like to raise concerns the council itself. i believe that if we are to carry out a process of reform, the council of ministers must become more transparent, more efficient and more public. the fact that everything is going to the european council is due to the inefficiency and the indecisiveness of the weakest organ we have within the european union, namely the council of ministers. it is not your responsibility personally, but a structural one which we must tackle urgently. i think that is why, as we move towards a union of 27, the question of the public nature of a legislator must be asked. this concerns the council when it acts as legislator: it is intended to make it clear that we have an interaction of political debate in europe. responsibilities must be made clear, and it must be made clear that we must have decision-making mechanisms here with which we can achieve results. we cannot let the bosses, you, take it all in, and then we cannot come to a solution. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the fact that dr trajkovski, the president of macedonia, was in stockholm is a good thing. he is a man who is particularly committed to interethnic coexistence. but if we analyse the situation in macedonia, we must conclude that the reason for the extremist events is not so much in macedonia as in the hesitant actions of the west in kosovo. what are the facts in macedonia? the minority arrangements in macedonia for the wallachians, serbs, roma and turks are exemplary. some countries in the region could follow suit. secondly, the albanian minority of about 28% naturally needs special treatment. she has four ministers in key positions in this government. what the previous government unfortunately did not take into account was the question of higher education for these people and the solution of the problem of the tetovo university. all this has been put in place by this government now, despite the kosovo crisis, and right now extremists from outside are coming in and questioning these things. i call on the council to help this government to continue on its path, and to call on the opposition in macedonia to support it. i would ask the countries to send the funds to tetovo university so that the academic year can begin. as far as kosovo is concerned, i would urge that the border with serbia and macedonia be closed to extremists. we can probably do that now with the help that has been requested. but the unmic must now finally call elections in kosovo so that elected albanian political representatives can take their destiny into their own hands and rein in the extremists from their ranks. western governments must finally understand that problems must be observed and solved. if we always stop halfway, new fields of activity for extremists will be created.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have been informed that the spanish version needs to be corrected. is the bureau aware of this or not? if so, i'd appreciate an announcement. my information is that in one place the spanish version has not been adapted to the common basic version which is in english.
chairman of the committee on budgetary control. the commission is not this misunderstanding has already been cleared up in the committee on budgetary control, and i am therefore very surprised that it is now reappearing. we have made this very clear in the vote in the committee on budgetary control. that clarified the matter, and i thought it would also clarify for the house that the english version applies and that the other languages also have the words 'competent posts'. that's why this new edition is a bit incomprehensible to me! (applause from the centre)
in writing. - (de) i voted against the trakatellis report and i also justify it on behalf of my colleagues in the bavarian csu: the european community still has no competence in health policy and must therefore simply coordinate. in its draft resolution, parliament calls for the creation, operation and development of a 'health coordination and surveillance centre' (ccss). we reject it resolutely, because it is a matter for the member states. many other claims run counter to the principle of subsidiarity, including recommendations for school curricula, quality standards in the health sector and for initial and continuing training. i also regret that the few financial resources available in parliament's draft are not allocated in a sensible and targeted way.
in writing. - (de) i decided against discharge for the following reasons: i welcome the statement made by the commissioner for the budget in the plenary on 3 april 2001 on the fléchard case. however, it is not sufficient to renew the commission's anti-fraud policy. there is no clear statement that the january 1994 case was handled unlawfully. the commission's lack of information about parliament has hardly changed since the 1998 discharge. i cannot accept that the budgetary authority - as the rapporteur has explained in detail in annex 2 to his report - has requested 11 audit reports and not received them. this is the case for all delegations' audit reports. this lack of information from the commission is further aggravated by the framework agreement, which gives the sole rapporteur access to documents. i also feel bound by the decision taken in december 2000 in the morgan report that discharge should be postponed if the commission has not submitted all the documents requested. according to the information given by the rapporteur, we are in this situation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i very much regret that we were unable to conclude this debate this morning, which would certainly have been necessary for a full review. i think the stockholm summit has set the wrong priorities. too much social and educational policy things that the treaties say the european union has nothing to do with and far too little market liberalisation. the liberalisation of energy markets has been blocked by my country and by france. we are still debating the question of how to deal with gibraltar airport in the context of the liberalisation of airspace, so that this summer again tens of thousands of tourists will be stranded at the airports because of flight delays. but the guidelines for social and educational policy were set in stockholm! this is not acceptable! europe is being fenced off from the wrong side. it must continue its policy of liberalization in order to ensure that markets develop in a way that is favourable to consumers. this is also consumer and social policy, because better competition can bring about better prices. in the field of social and educational policy itself, we should again strictly observe the principle of subsidiarity and leave it to the member states to give life to these concepts. europe is not culturally homogeneous, and it should not become so. this is our strength, because europe, on the contrary, lives by its diversity. i believe that europe must not lose its way and must return to its original tasks. the next council in gothenburg in june will give the heads of state and government a chance to do so. i hope they will use them for the good of europe too!
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the proposals made by alexander lamfalussy on the form of the legislative procedure for the implementation of the financial services package are pioneering, because here for the first time a very clear distinction is made between the law, the directive, the regulation, which is being drawn up with the cooperation of the council and parliament, and the technical implementation of this directive. this will enable the adaptation to new technical conditions to take place much more rapidly than in the past. the heads of state and government have decided that we want to become the most modern and competitive european economic area, and that includes a modern form of legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but what's the problem? the problem is that even in the technical implementation, in the regulations which are adopted on this basis, problems can often be hidden from the public. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. on this occasion, since we are in the process of co-decision, the european parliament must have the same rights as the council. what was agreed in stockholm is a good agreement between the commission and the council. parliament was still outside. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, tomorrow we shall be taking a decision of major importance for europe and its information society. i am counting on a 'yes' vote on galileo and on the views of the transport council. we need a unanimous political vote and no more verbal excuses. the remaining critics were told that the public-private partnership was feasible if the political vote was clear. military use may be possible, but it is not a prerequisite. the infrastructure created by galileo will have a much higher added value in the future than other infrastructure measures. galileo is helping young people in europe who are interested in technology to find attractive new jobs. europe's high technology will take it to the forefront of the world in this sector of the future. the so-called market value of galileo increases inversely in proportion to the initial capital required. we must be able to assume the european principle of burden sharing in this area too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we're gonna have to make nails out of heads now! tomorrow is too late! the biggest competitor, the united states, laughs its head off and welcomes any delay in the development of europe. we'll need at least seven to eight years to get it to market. president. - mr president, i have received a request from the commission to take part in the debate on the report by mr prodi. i would like to repeat that galileo is a gateway to a european information society. i expect the transport council to agree with me tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are dealing today with the annual report on the area of freedom, security and justice, which was established at the tampere summit in october 1999. i think we should rather talk about an area of law, freedom and security. the law is the foundation of our european union, which sees itself as a community of law. we have made two major progresses in nice, which we welcome: the adoption of the charter of fundamental rights, which must now also be made legally binding, and the reform of the european court of justice, which is one of the highlights of the treaty of nice. the european union is a community of law, but it still needs to be developed. i would like to mention here in particular crossborder judicial cooperation in the fields of civil and criminal law, but also - and i consider this to be very important - the field of human and civil rights, because this very charter of fundamental rights has not yet been made binding. the community of law, of course, also means that we not only require the applicant countries to respect the acquis communautaire, but also that we implement and respect our own decisions and legal acts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, we are talking about freedom. freedom is the outflow of right. freedom is based on human dignity. but if freedom is not to be abused, we need security, because without security and without rights, freedom is the right of the stronger. we do not want the rights of the strong, but we also want the rights of the weak. that is why we need a security policy based on the rule of law. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european police force. in this context, i would like to call on the council to continue to develop europol without delay, to finally promote parliamentary control of europol, to establish the european police academy definitively in the next few weeks - there were delays here too, although the commissioner was able to give us a positive report yesterday - and to ensure that there is a common european border guard. this is what the european parliament proposed three years ago on my initiative. i am grateful that some member states are now pushing for such a border guard unit for the european union's external borders in the council. but we also want to ask the council in this very important debate what it really thinks of its responsibility to the european parliament. we have begun excellent cooperation with the commission and with commissioner vitorino, but we are clearly seeing shortcomings in cooperation in the fields of justice and home affairs. we are debating today, without a written annual report and without any documentation from the council, what has happened and what is yet to happen in this central policy area. the commission's scoreboard is exemplary in this respect. but there is no annual report from the council on what happened in 2000 in this central area. i believe that parliament must be duly informed and taken into account and that further progress must be made in the parliamentarisation of this central area of justice and home affairs. we are seeing crucial shortcomings on the part of the council. it is not possible to want to build a people's europe and do so without the elected representatives of the people, namely the parliamentarians. i would like to conclude by addressing the sensitive issue of asylum. we are lacking here - as in the justice and home affairs sector in general - a strategic approach on the part of the council. we have a wealth of initiatives from the individual states, which are often even contradictory. we have a lot of individual approaches, but we lack a strategic approach with regard to a common asylum policy, a common immigration policy and also burden sharing, a personnel burden sharing between the member states. we call on the council to reduce these deficits! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. if the eu's fortress policy goes wrong, then shipwrecks will occur, as we have seen in france, as they have just happened in greece, and they will probably claim many more lives. the question is: if we really want to achieve more freedom, security and justice, what must we do to prevent more people from falling victim to these policies? first, freedom is achieved by giving people the freedom to choose where they want to live. secondly, you give people security by putting a passport in their hands and giving them the legal ability to make their lives wherever they want to. this will also lead to more justice and more fairness, because because of the global economic conditions imposed on the industrialized countries of the world, many people will become refugees. i therefore call on the council to take prevention seriously. a common approach - yes! start an initiative for legalization now, because only this is a consistent policy against racism!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. almost every day, we read in the newspapers about refugees being stranded on the shores of europe. on sunday alone, 447 kurdish refugees landed in greece. in february, the freighter 'east sea' stranded in saint-raphaël, france, with almost 1 000 kurdish refugees on board, including more than 300 children. for ten days, and under inhuman conditions, the odyssey to europe took place. under these conditions, three women have given birth. the refugees are selling all their possessions to pay for a ticket to europe. the increasing risk to life taken by refugees is a consequence of the eu's policy of isolation. this is unacceptable! the borders of europe must be open to people in need who are fleeing their homes. why does anyone leave home? what kind of refugee leaves his home voluntarily? no one leaves their country voluntarily unless they are politically persecuted and fear torture and ill-treatment! i am committed to fighting the causes of flight. i believe that an active human rights policy, a rethinking of arms exports and financial aid to poor countries and regions are necessary if people are not to flee. i call on the commission, the council and the governments of the european union to pursue and implement this policy. europe needs not only an economic face but also a human face!
- doc. a5-0093/2001 by mrs sanders-ten holte, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council (com (2000) 340 - c5-0294/2000 - 2000/0145 (cod)) amending regulation (ec) no 2027/97 on air carrier liability in the event of accidents.
- may i ask you for a little discipline tonight? if each speaker speaks one minute longer than his speaking time, madam president, we will have 40 minutes more work and we will have to stay here until 1 a.m. instead of midnight. your speech was very interesting.
the commission - mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs sanders-ten holte on her excellent report, which stresses the importance of rapidly applying the montreal convention and of thoroughly informing passengers of the rights it confers on them. the commission fully supports the report, since it supports our intention to provide air passengers with a high level of protection in the event of an accident, it seeks to modernise the rules on liability for delays and damage to luggage and, above all, it seeks to improve the information of users about their rights, since the biggest problem is often that users themselves do not know what they are. i am glad to say that the transport council is due to adopt a decision at its meeting tomorrow to ratify the convention and for the community to ratify the convention at the same time as the member states. the community must also bring its rules on airline liability into line with those of the montreal convention, which is the aim of this proposal. the amendments tabled are perhaps the most important ones concerning the information to be given to passengers on the provisions relating to the liability of airlines. the commission's proposal requires airlines to provide passengers with detailed information. the report seeks to strengthen the wording of the regulation by requiring community companies to submit an information note, as set out in the proposed annex. this would ensure that airlines provide passengers with the necessary information in an accurate manner, which, as experience shows, does not always happen. the commission therefore accepts amendments nos 13 and 18. the other two amendments, nos 19 and 20, would have the consequence, if adopted, that third country airlines would be exempt from the obligation to inform their passengers of the rules relating to their liability and therefore we cannot accept this discrimination and we reject both amendments. however, we have some doubts about amendments nos 9 and 10, which state that the liability of airlines will be governed by the relevant provisions of the montreal convention without specifying the relevant articles. the commission proposal, however, provides that liability is governed by the provisions of seven articles of the montreal convention, explicitly numbering them. ladies and gentlemen, changing this question could provoke a hostile reaction from some member states, and the subsequent debate would slow down the adoption of the regulation to the detriment of passengers. that is why we cannot accept amendments nos 9 and 10. we cannot accept amendment no 11 either, since the article cannot be deleted if the text continues to refer to specific articles of the montreal convention, in line with the previous rejection. the commission can, however, accept all other amendments which reinforce or clarify the text. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam rapporteur, i have just summarized the commission's position on this report. i would like to thank mrs sanders-ten holte once again for her excellent work and support for the early incorporation of the montreal convention into community law, and she is quite right, because this new incorporation will mean a shift from the international regime agreed 72 years ago - which was ultimately intended to restrict the liability of airlines - to another modern system which is intended to do just the opposite: to give a high level of coverage to the protection of passengers' rights.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
- doc. a5-0096/2001 by mr camisón asensio, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council (com (2000) 5 - c5-0402/2000 - 2000/0023 (cod)) on aid for the coordination of transport by rail, road and inland waterway.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, on behalf of my group, i should like to thank my colleague, mr felipe camisón asensio, for his report. he made it very carefully. the commission has not been able to reach a decision on the matter, and i am afraid that the council will not be able to reach a decision on the matter. the vice-president and mr camisón asensio were well ahead of the european council. but the european council can still be cited. the stockholm european council stated that it is necessary to reduce the level of state aid in the european union and to make the system of aid more transparent. that is the objective here. i believe that by replacing the old regulation 1107/70 with the new regulation we have made the system more transparent. as far as the use is concerned, i believe that the aid only compensates for the so-called uncovered costs in terms of infrastructure development and the use of transport infrastructure. we have another problem here, because it is not clear what the external costs really are. i'll give you an example. the theory that it is always better to move freight from road to rail in the interests of environmental protection is not automatically correct. we're discussing noise near airports. we're about to ban night flights. remember when you hear a really beautiful freight train at night, it's loud, it stinks, and the brakes squeak. i mean, we're asking the questions, what are external costs? how do you scientifically record them? and how do you charge it? i've got a lot of work to do. i am glad that we have mentioned this in the report. this is a task which the commission has yet to accomplish. i wish the commissioner luck in getting this done soon.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur on behalf of my group. he was very cooperative in preparing his report. the principle applies to the internal market: aid distorts competition and is therefore inadmissible. my predecessor has pointed this out. exceptions to this rule require a specific justification. in this regulation, the reasoning is given as follows: coordination of inland transport. the first objective of aid in this sector is to ensure fair competition between road, rail and inland waterway transport. this is the only way to optimise the overall european transport system in the long term, especially in the area of freight transport. this is the only way to achieve the much-vaunted intermodal transport chains. in order to make these transport chains as flexible as possible, we want to extend the scope of the regulation to short sea shipping. state resources for the construction, maintenance and distribution of transport routes are not covered by the prohibition of aid if they are available to all users without discrimination. this should apply irrespective of the legal form of the infrastructure manager. this is the only way to equate railways and ports with roads. the commission has already made a number of proposals. aid for the use of transport routes should reflect the different burdens imposed on society by the choice of means of transport. this means that infrastructure and external costs must be included in the aid calculation. the difference between the costs of two modes of transport not borne by the users of each is allocated to the more social and environmentally friendly mode of transport as an aid to make its use cheaper and more attractive. unfortunately, as has already been mentioned, there is no politically legitimate model for calculating these costs at european level. i therefore, after much back and forth and careful consideration, have agreed to the supplementary model which provides for the transfer of transport from road to rail and inland waterway by means of contracts. that is what amendment no 48 expresses, and i ask the house to support it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on competition are applied in the community. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is notified to the member states. we therefore propose exemptions for terminals which are included in a national or european development plan or which are part of the transeuropean freight network. we also support a de minimis scheme of eur 100 000 over three years. as regards the aid for the use of transport routes, we call for a five-year period and for renewability. overall, the regulation will contribute to a clearer structure in the award of aid for the coordination of inland transport and will help to reduce distortions of competition also between member states .
the commission is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. this proposal for a regulation on state aid to the inland transport sector develops article 73 of the treaty, which states that aid to transport coordination is compatible with community law. we therefore intend to create a transparent, coherent and clear framework which will allow for no distortions in the market. it is also important that the same rules apply to different modes of inland transport which compete with each other. the commission proposal therefore lays down common criteria for granting exemptions which apply equally to all types of inland transport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. however, some of them go in a very different direction and therefore we cannot accept them. i'll mention some of them. first, the concept of state aid is a cornerstone of the union's competition policy. according to this concept, any public aid to an undertaking carrying out an economic activity, whatever its legal status, constitutes state aid to which the rules of the treaty apply. neither amendment no 21 nor amendment no 37 can alter this fundamental principle of community law. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. we cannot agree with the proposals put forward, although we share the concern and the need to promote the railway. but, ladies and gentlemen, we shall achieve that if the railways are able to provide a good quality of service and therefore be competitive, and for that i believe that the measures we are putting in place are the best. a key element of the proposal is to create a level playing field, so that there is a level playing field between companies based on the user-pays principle, which takes account of external and infrastructure costs. state aid should therefore be limited to compensating for certain external costs, and all this in a framework of fair competition. aid above these costs and uncontrolled does not give these companies the right incentives to improve efficiency and competitiveness. other amendments propose that aid to transhipment facilities, with combined transport terminals, should be exempted from any notification procedure, as terminals are often operated by private companies and compete with other terminals to attract traffic flows, there is a clear risk of distortion of competition. we cannot therefore accept that they should not be communicated. it has also been proposed that undertakings providing passenger transport services may be eligible for aid to offset external and infrastructure costs. however, aid for passenger services under article 73 is regulated in the commission's public service rules, which propose a comprehensive and appropriate framework on how public authorities can support the provision of inland passenger transport services. the aim of these amendments is therefore ultimately to change this legislation and the commission cannot therefore accept them. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. the evaluation of external effects is a subject of constant debate, as mr jarzembowski has pointed out. there are now methodologies for such evaluation, but despite the efforts of the commission, member states are very reluctant to agree on common formulas. the commission is not at all reluctant to put forward a proposal in this respect in the future and i would like to thank mr costa once again for the work he has done in his report on this subject. but we cannot in any case make the need to evaluate specific public aid schemes dependent on agreement by the european institutions on common rules. the commission, acting pragmatically and in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, leaves it to the member states to decide how to assess these costs in each individual case, as long as we do not have commonly accepted standards. in view of the arguments put forward, the commission accepts amendments nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 13, 16, 18 (in its second part), 19, 20, 24, 27, 33, 36, 40, 44, 45 and 51. we cannot accept amendments nos 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 17, 18 (in their first part), 21, 22, 23, 25, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 34, 35, 37, 38, 39, 42, 43, 46, 47, 48, 49 and 52, which are not in the same spirit as the amendments tabled by the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities.
- let me congratulate the interpreters who have managed to translate at almost the same pace. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0111/2001) by mr piecyk, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a european parliament and council decision (c5-0050/2001 - 1997/0358 (cod)) amending decision 1692/96/ec as regards seaports, inland ports and intermodal terminals, and draft annex iii no 8.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i must say that it is a great feeling to be able to speak before such a large audience at this time, and it will be even greater tomorrow when, after a long time, a report is finally adopted, because it has been a long journey. in 1996, at the end of the conciliation procedure, the commission announced that the transeuropean networks would be extended to improve the ports. a proposal came very late, and in march 1999 we had the first reading. we should have discussed the revision of the tens there. the council took its time. the second reading took place in october 2000 and it was only under the pressure of the conciliation procedure that we started to have real discussions and to make some progress with the council. it could have been done more easily and more quickly, since we are now in the year 2001. i think the result can be seen. we now have a reasonable classification of ports into international - community ports - and regional ports with acceptable categories for tonnage and passenger numbers. the same applies to inland ports with a cargo capacity of 500 000 tonnes, which i think is quite a lot. we have in principle established ports and inland ports as nodes in the transeuropean networks, that is to say, they must serve as nodes for the other transeuropean links. we have included intermodal terminals in the dossier so that combined transport supports rail and waterways as modes of transport and underlines their special importance. after a long discussion we have also come up with a very neat and reasonable definition of what infrastructure is and what can and cannot be promoted in ports and inland ports. we have also amended project no 8, one of the 14 major projects of the essen council which were subsequently confirmed in dublin, in close harmony and also by means of the codecision procedure, which was very difficult at the time. i am particularly pleased that the commission has agreed to propose again, in the revision, the elbe-lübeck canal. i also thank the commissioner for her colleagues in the commission, who were very helpful in the final phase and kept coming up with new proposals, so that we did not have to go through the actual conciliation procedure but were able to agree beforehand. i would like to add this remark: from my point of view, the tens have been overstated from the outset. we have said this in committee and in parliament: let us go a little deeper! but in the revision process, such mistakes should not be repeated. the commission made very good proposals in the initial phase of the consultation on the transeuropean networks. you should come back to that. this means not only that the member states have to put together what they supply, but also that the commission has to set its own priorities. since we are discussing so much about special dossiers, rail and water, i would like to see the priority given to rail and water reflected in the tens in the commission's proposal. i think we have done a good job overall, even though it took a long time. i thank all those who have taken part: my colleagues in parliament, the commission and also the french presidency of the council, which has brought this to a successful conclusion!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur very warmly. he has taken this difficult dossier, which involved a very difficult fight in the council, through two bodies and the conciliation committee, and that is very important. you just have to have the courage to stand your ground as a reporter. he has proved it, and he has succeeded in doing so. i also join him in thanking the french presidency for seeking a compromise at the last moment. i would also like to thank the vice-president and her staff, who have been very helpful in negotiating this compromise. i would like to thank the commission for this. i'll try to keep my head down on this beautiful evening. that's why it's three points. firstly, it was important to put the question of ports, inland ports, seaports and intermodal terminals in the right light in a proposal on transeuropean networks. that is why we have said that it must be ports and inland ports with inland connections, linked in a network, and not individual ports which may be very beautiful but which have no transeuropean significance. i think the classification we have found together with the council is very good. secondly, it was important to distinguish between infrastructure and superstructure. this may sound terrible to the layman, but it is essential in the matter of equality of competition between ports or the question of undue distortions of competition. on the one hand, it was important to clarify what infrastructure is. so what does the state have to do and pay without the community intervening, without notification obligations? for example, a typical question is: is the dredging of a port access road subject to notification or not? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. but it was crucial to clarify that the superstructure is defined by reference to the infrastructure, to ensure that there is no aid distorting competition. i think that went very well. let me make a third point. madam vice-president, if you will bear this in mind, we have succeeded for the first time in co-deciding on priority projects as a parliament through the codecision procedure. the wise heads of state and government in essen and dublin have said what are the priority projects, let us decide! what is parliament? in this case, with the help of the rapporteur, we have made it possible for the council and parliament to decide jointly on priority projects. we should keep that in mind when we audit.
mr president, have a good evening. we are discussing a subject of great importance for the coasts of europe at a late hour. we have had several readings and an investigation, and i say it has come to a good end. first of all, i would like to thank my esteemed colleague willy piecyk for his convincing work. he has been very active in the work of our ports and we should thank him for that. i was talking about a happy ending. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the crisis. i must confess that the fixing of the minimum turnover at 1.5 million tonnes for inclusion in category a did not at least excite me. i am still afraid that this will put areas on the periphery of our union at a disadvantage, but i would like to give them the same international importance as the rotterdam and hamburg signposts. i am not talking here of ports for foot-boats, but of ports with an annual turnover of over 1 million tonnes of goods. i think it is important to include small ports in the international context. why do we talk about globalisation if we then divide our ports according to the principle 'you can play internationally, but you cannot'? on the contrary, we should be glad that we have so many international hubs in the eu. transeuropean networks and the investment they require will only make sense if we build a genuine network of ports across europe that is inclusive and not exclusive. in recent years, european ports have undergone substantial modernisation to meet the new requirements of maritime traffic and technologies. i believe in the future of our european ports in all their diversity. i hope that my colleagues will continue to support me in this endeavour.
the commission is aware of the fact that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it took three years of effort to adopt this proposal to include the nodes in the transeuropean networks. the commission is more than pleased to be able to say that with this amendment the transeuropean transport network is finally complete and that something which is essential to a genuine transeuropean intermodal network is finally included: ports. the inclusion of the idea of nodes as such means that the new concept of transport as a multimodal system is recognised. in maritime and inland ports, decisions are made on how to get products to european citizens: by rail, by road or by inland waterway. the nodes, well equipped with transhipment facilities, which make it possible to meet the requirement for the development of the transeuropean transport network set out in the community guidelines, will ensure that each mode of transport is used according to the advantages it offers and will therefore facilitate the multimodal reality and, above all, the use of alternative modes to the simple road. the integration of ports into the transeuropean networks is absolutely essential in general and especially relevant for the outermost regions of the european union. the fact that porto santo or porto funchal in the azores, punta delgada in the canary islands, santa cruz de tenerife, cristianos, santa cruz de la palma, san sebastián de la gomera, las palmas or arrecife in reunion pointe des galets, or guadeloupe pointe-à-pitre, or martinique fort de france and basse-terre are incorporated into madeira clearly shows the importance for these archipelagos of their ports being incorporated once and for all as essential elements within the transeuropean networks, bringing these outermost areas closer to the rest of the european union. in addition, annex 3 is amended and the lisbon-valladolid motorway is renamed from a totally reductionist definition, with a single means of transport, to a multimodal link between portugal and spain and the rest of europe. i think this formula is much more suited to the need for the iberian peninsula to be integrated into the rest of the european continent. the transport council will decide on this matter tomorrow and i hope that it will be satisfactorily closed. the commission will also continue its work both in the field of the revision of the transeuropean networks and in the promotion of intermodality and coastal cabotage programmes. i believe that our proposals to introduce more competition in seaports and more safety in the maritime sector - remember all the work done last year with the erika i and erika ii packages - simplifications in administrative procedures and a number of other future measures to facilitate cabotage or maritime transport in general and inland waterway transport will also contribute to all this progress. thank you very much, once again, to the rapporteur. - i'm not sure. and thank you very much to all the honourable members for your very constructive contributions.
- thank you, commissioner. you've been here a long time, and now you're free. now you can do whatever you want! the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0090/2001), on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the common position of the council (c5-0678/2000 - 1999/0152 (cod)) with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 91/308/eec on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i, too, would like to welcome you to this important meeting. we have an important matter to discuss today. it is about combating money laundering, and there is a very close link between money laundering and international crime. international crime - especially organised crime - is no longer worthwhile when money laundering is no longer possible. that is why it has been a concern of this house from the outset to fight money laundering intensively. i recall that in 1995 - when i was rapporteur on this subject for the first time in this house - we called in the report on the commission's report on the application of the first anti-money laundering directive that, because it was not sufficient and only set a minimum standard, the commission should make a new proposal for a second anti-money laundering directive. we have confirmed this a few years later in the report by mr newman - i was then shadow rapporteur for my group. we therefore thank the commission for initiating this legislative procedure. we have tried to complete this legislative procedure as quickly as possible, as was called for at the tampere summit. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this was not possible at the time, because the council could not agree on what it wanted until the summer of last year. we then completed our first reading at the council's request. the negotiations continued. unfortunately, it was not possible to reach agreement on the parliament's and the council's positions until the council's common position was adopted. this is essentially because the council was not led by the ministers of justice and the minister of the interior, but unfortunately by the ministers of finance, who did not approach a number of important issues with the necessary sensitivity. the result is that we now have to bring back 27 amendments from the first reading for second reading. we have to do so because the council has virtually ignored parliament's views. it is therefore a clear mockery that the council's explanatory statement says that parliament's arguments and positions have been taken over in essence! what are the main problems? the core problem is not the question of the prohibition of money laundering. it's been decided a long time ago. in all member states there have been laws for many, many years prohibiting money laundering, by anyone, whether he is a criminal, a lawyer, a banker or whatever. the point is to establish reporting obligations. it is quite clear that the inclusion of new occupational groups in the scope of money laundering is partly problematic because of the obligations of these occupational groups to certain measures. for example, lawyers are bound by confidentiality, confidentiality in the face of what they are told by their clients. this is a fundamental right of clients, a fundamental right of clients, which is also laid down in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which has just been adopted in nice. i can only say that what the council of finance ministers has decided here is far too much and goes far beyond what is compatible with fundamental rights. it was therefore absolutely necessary for the committee on fundamental freedoms to ensure that the amendments in question were tabled in plenary at second reading. i would also point out that the provisions of article 6 (3) in its current version, which relate to an assessment of the legal situation, are interpreted very differently by the respective delegations in the council, but also by the commission, and are in urgent need of clarification. the identification requirements contained in this directive, as currently set out in the common position, are excessively bureaucratic and unusable. for example, they provide that complex identification requirements arise even in a minor legal dispute, even when lawyers and clients are hundreds of kilometres apart. the parliament considers that the aim is to prevent money laundering and that it is therefore sufficient to trigger the identity obligation from a certain threshold and only when involved in financial transactions. the last point is the question of equal treatment. we have the situation that in this common position the different professions are treated in a completely different way, although there are member states where they can work together in a partnership, and it is not conceivable that in the same company the rule x should apply to one of the parties and the stricter rule y to the other. that is why we are calling for a new directive on the protection of workers from the risks of exposure to asbestos. the european parliament will continue to advocate the swift adoption of this directive. but we expect the council to cooperate in the conciliation process and not to obstruct the finance ministers! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. money laundering means concealing the origin of money obtained by criminal means so that it can appear to be taken from a legally operating enterprise. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat money laundering, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the european community adopted very early on a directive on combating money laundering, which has triggered legislation in member states which did not have such legislation. this law was good in its day, but today it needs renovation, like any older building, because nothing is more inventive than criminal intelligence. if the directive were adopted as mr lehne and the committee have drafted it, we would have the most modern, best and strictest anti-money laundering legislation in the world in the european union. there are only two problems with enforcement. the first problem is that there is a certain uncertainty in the house about how to deal with the special relationship, say between lawyer and client, because there is a requirement to report suspicions of money laundering. the proposal which mr lehne and the committee have then developed is a good one. it is a simple and workable proposal. it basically says: when a lawyer provides legal advice, the relationship of trust between client and lawyer is further protected. if he's involved in any form of money transfer - purchases, investments, whatever - then he's no longer covered by this protection and is fully reportable. this is both to protect the relationship of trust and to meet the requirements of the fight against crime. the second problem is the council, and there is no solution for that at present. the council did not accept substantive proposals. the reason may be, as my colleague mr lehne has pointed out, that the finance ministers are responsible, who have little experience of codecision legislation and no experience at all of fighting crime. the only way left for parliament is to follow the path proposed, namely to maintain the amendments at first reading. we will have a consultation procedure. since representatives of the council are present, i say to you, dress warmly for this concert. we will not allow an excellent bill to be destroyed by amateurs in the field of crime prevention! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rules of procedure of the european community bar association state: 'it is the essence of the profession of a lawyer that his client confides in him and that he receives other confidential communications. if confidentiality is not guaranteed, no trust can be established. for this reason, professional secrecy is both a fundamental right and a fundamental obligation of lawyers. other this basic obligation, which must be and applies to all members of the legal profession, is also a fundamental right of every person in need of advice, i.e. potentially every individual. we cannot allow another dismantling of fundamental rights, even if it is justified by the alleged need to combat organised crime. we therefore agree with mr lehne on this proposal and will vote in favour of the amendments.
commission. – mr president, this subject rightly commands a lot of attention, both in this parliament and elsewhere. i should like to assure members that these proceedings attract a lot of attention in institutions outside this parliament which are engaged in fighting money laundering. perhaps the money launderers themselves are also following these proceedings with a great deal of interest since it would be a happy outcome of our discussions if their life were to be made more difficult. apart from that, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr lehne, and also the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs, for their sustained efforts to achieve a rapid adoption of this important but highly sensitive proposal. the fight against money laundering, as several members have stressed, is a top political priority and is now an integral part of the campaign against serious and organised crime. international pressure is increasing on third countries and on offshore financial centres considered insufficiently cooperative in this area. at the same time, the european union, which has always been at the forefront of international efforts to fight criminal money, must continue to show the way by developing and refining its internal anti-money laundering defences. that was the reasoning behind the clear calls from this parliament and the member states for a proposal to update and extend the 1991 anti-money laundering directive. the commission believes that the common position adopted unanimously last november represents a reasonable compromise on the question of the criminal activity covered – the matter of the so-called predicate offences – and also on the safeguards for the inclusion of the profession, in particular lawyers, within the scope of the directive. in response to concerns in parliament about cases where the lawyer is defending or representing a client in legal proceedings or helping the client to determine his legal position, i should like to stress that there is no question of any obligation to report suspicions of money laundering. it seems to me that the fundamental human rights mentioned are protected. they will not come into play when this proposal becomes reality. i agree with baroness ludford when she says that in this respect the proposal is a good compromise between protecting fundamental rights when lawyers defend their clients in court or help the clients to determine their legal position, but not when they are participating in preparations leading up to an activity covered by this directive. i would also like to recall that our work is the subject of considerable international attention, for example within g7 or the financial action taskforce (fatf). the international community is looking to the european union to find solutions to those difficult questions. i would now like to turn to the individual amendments in the draft second reading recommendation. amendments nos 1 and 10 deal with predicate offences and would mark a major step back from the ambitious common position. the decision was made to move gradually to the coverage of all serious crime. having agreed on this wide coverage, the commission cannot accept these amendments. numbers 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 12, 13 and 22 deal essentially with the treatment of the professions. the commission is regrettably unable to accept the amendments as worded. in its view, the legal profession constitutes a special case and requires special treatment. the commission, therefore, does not accept the principle of giving all the professions exactly the same treatment as that envisaged for the lawyers and notaries. this relates, for example, to the activities which bring the professions within the scope of this directive. the commission is also reluctant to envisage a member state option to allow all the professions the possibility of reporting their suspicions to a professional body, but it firmly backs this possibility for the legal professions. on the difficult question of advice, the commission continues to believe that financial investment and corporate advice should fall within the scope of the directive as long as it is unrelated to current or potential legal proceedings or to the wish of the client to establish his position under the law. of course, the commission concedes that drawing this line may not always be easy. nevertheless it also insists on this point. i ask members of this parliament what they would think if a lawyer had a suspicion that his client was preparing some money laundering activity? what would members think if that lawyer decided not to report his suspicions, for example, to the bar association of his country? that has nothing to do with human rights; it has everything to do with an efficient campaign against money laundering activities, which is a serious matter. i would like members to keep that in mind. amendments nos 7 and 11 relate to the role of the competent authorities. the commission believes that the text of the common position is clear and satisfactory and so, cannot accept those two amendments. amendment no 9 would extend the definition of financial institutions to include certain market authorities. the commission does not believe that such an inclusion would be appropriate. amendment no 14 would change the coverage of non-financial activities in a way that is unacceptable to the commission. amendments nos 15 and 16 deal with client identification. some remarks were made earlier this evening to the effect that client identification might be unduly cumbersome and bureaucratic. i should like to read out article 3 of the proposal where it says that: "member states shall ensure that the institutions and persons subject to this directive require identification of their customers by means of supporting evidence when entering into business relations". this is not about a client ringing up for a prospectus or something like that: this is entering into business relations. can anyone here imagine that a bank or some other financial institution would enter into business relations without ascertaining the identity of his client? i cannot. if i were to enter into business relations i would want to make very certain that i knew who i was dealing with, where they lived, their nationality and so on. i cannot see at all why that is unduly bureaucratic or cumbersome. the commission therefore believes that the common position in this regard provides the necessary scope for flexibility. amendments nos 17 and 28 – the latter of which reached us today – are concerned with identification where there is no face-to-face contact. the commission is afraid that amendment no 17 would make the text too inflexible with possible negative repercussions for e-commerce. amendment no 28 retains the flexibility sought by the commission, but the precise wording still poses certain problems. therefore the amendment, as it has now been put forward, is regrettably unacceptable. amendment no 18 seeks to amend the exemptions from client identification for certain insurance contracts. in the commission's view, a detailed technical examination of this question would be necessary before these amounts could be revised. amendments nos 19 and 20 deal with identification requirements for casino customers. the commission considers that these amendments do not improve the common position. in the commission's view, amendments nos 21 and 24 breach the basic anti-money laundering rule that the customer about whom a report is made should not be warned. the commission could not accept this breach. amendments nos 23 and 25 amend the provisions of the 1991 directive on suspicious transaction reporting, which have not given rise to any problems in the past and, in the commission's view, do not need to be changed. finally, amendments nos 26 and 27 refer to olaf. in deleting all reference to olaf in the common position, the council invited the commission to make a separate proposal under article 280. the commission is currently preparing this proposal. the commission considers, therefore, these amendments unnecessary.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
- the joint debate on the reports by mrs keßler, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and human rights, on the proposal for a council decision on the establishment of a european judicial network in civil and commercial matters (com (2000) 592 - c5-0561/2000 - 2000/0240 (cns)) (a5-0091/2001); - a5-0094/2001 on the proposal for a council decision establishing a second phase of the programme for the encouragement and exchange, training and cooperation of practitioners in the field of justice (grotius ii general and criminal) (com (2000) 828 - c5-0754/2000 - 2000/0339 (cns)); - on the proposal for a council decision establishing a second phase of the programme for encouragement, exchange, training and cooperation between law enforcement agencies of the member states of the european union (oisin ii) (com (2000) 828 - c5-0755/2000 - 2000/0340 (cns)) - on the proposal for a council decision establishing a second phase of the programme for the encouragement, exchange, training and cooperation of persons responsible for action against trafficking in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children (stop ii) (com (2000) 828 - c5-0756/2000 - 2000/0341 (cns));
the rapporteur. i am trying to do my best. the proposal for a council decision on four programmes dealing with cooperation and exchanges in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. let me briefly return to the programmes: grotius (ppe). - (fr) mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. oisin is about cooperation with law enforcement agencies, with €8 million available. stop is a project to coordinate action against trafficking in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children, with eur 6.5 million available. the hippocrates programme is a new programme, which is mainly concerned with education and training in crime prevention, and is to be endowed with 2 million euro. the inclusion of hippocracts is appropriate because the main aspects of the programme, such as duration, access and funding arrangements, are in line with the proposals of the other programmes. the commission has proposed to extend the multiannual programmes grotius, oisin and stop for a further two years. in principle, the continuation of the programmes is to be welcomed, as they have proved to be appropriate even if not all member states participate in them to contribute to effective cooperation in the fight against and prevention of crime and thus also to the implementation of the tampere conclusions. the commission's implementation reports confirm that the objectives of the programme have been achieved. however, an external study has also revealed weaknesses in the implementation of the three programmes, for example in the management and dissemination of project results. it is also questionable whether the reduction of the co-financing limit from 80% to 70% really improves the mobilisation of project promoters. i am in favour of the candidate countries being included as soon as possible in these programmes, simply because the restructuring of the police and the judiciary in these countries leaves much to be desired, and i want to see them included as soon as possible. the only real difference i see between the commission proposal and the one that was there is the timetable. i would have liked to see a single framework programme at this stage. i am convinced that with a greater commitment from the commission this would have been possible. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs would have liked the commission to have put forward a more comprehensive and ambitious programme. the following reasons argue against the continuation of different funding programmes separately. the allocation of a project to a specific funding programme is made more difficult when a project covers a general topic, such as the charter of fundamental rights, or several fields at the same time, or involves both member states and candidate countries. the accumulation of individual programmes increases the likelihood of conflicts of objectives, makes financial evaluation more difficult and makes it more difficult to verify the coherence of individual programmes with the general objectives of the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the fact that priority is given to third party projects raises the question of whether the institutions do not have their own priorities that need funding. i am thinking, for example, of asylum seekers, victims of crime or infrastructure projects. a separate budget for pilot projects is also proposed. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs therefore proposes that the plenary should support the commission's proposals, but at the same time we call on the commission to submit, in good time before the end of 2001, a proposal for a consolidation of all the initiatives aimed at creating an area of freedom, security and justice, based on title vi of the treaty on european union and title iv of the treaty establishing the european community, in order to strengthen the rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens. this is the one thing. i now come to the european judicial network in civil and commercial matters. the establishment of a judicial network in criminal matters was decided in 1998. the network operates through national contact points which provide advice to local authorities. the network is now making a decisive contribution to simplifying criminal investigations in the crossborder area, after initial difficulties, which were mainly of a technical and linguistic nature. the commission proposal extends the method of cooperation between national contact points to the field of civil and commercial law. a measure which, in my opinion, was long overdue. i welcome the initiative as a way of simplifying judicial cooperation between member states and, in particular, facilitating the handling of crossborder legal proceedings. the activities of the network are ultimately intended to benefit the citizen, and the improvement of judicial cooperation is only an intermediate objective in order to create an area of law for the citizen. the committee's amendments therefore specify that citizens can apply to the courts and authorities in any other member state as easily as in their own country. the aim of the proposal is to incorporate the objective set by the european council in the tampere milestones. the main objective is to ensure effective access to justice and to ensure that proceedings are conducted in a timely and reliable manner. i can imagine that this network can also be an accompanying instrument for the implementation of the brussels ii convention. in order to learn from the experience of the existing judicial network in criminal matters, the new network will work closely with the contact points of the judicial network in criminal matters. it is also appropriate that the secure electronic information exchange system to be established be built on the existing electronic data exchange programme for the administration. i would also like to stress the need to involve the applicant countries as soon as possible. the establishment of a central electronic case file of the european union and a database containing a register of judgments would be of inestimable value to courts and to persons seeking justice. a detailed proposal for this has already been drawn up. i am grateful for the amendments tabled by mrs wallis, which have helped to clarify the text, and i am grateful for the support given to my proposals in committee. i cannot support motion no 8 on limiting the number of participants and i agree with the commission. i was not convinced by the 13 proposals for a pilot project within this network.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs and internal market. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. it's 11:15 p.m. and the night of the dark forms has begun. in strasbourg, in brussels, throughout europe, throughout the world, crimes are being committed across borders tonight, people are being harmed, property is being damaged. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs keßler, for the thorough preparatory work she has done on the analysis of the grotius programme. i think that this programme, mr vitorino, is one of the essential components of a european area of freedom, security and justice. i would like to express my group's appreciation for the fact that the commission is engaging in such a programme in a field which is relatively new to it in relation to its original task. the grotius programme is creating, i would say, islands of competence in the area of law enforcement, which we can expand bit by bit and which are slowly becoming more dense, because we can adopt as many directives, regulations and agreements as we want here: if they are not applied, all these efforts will be wasted. the money laundering problem, which we have just discussed, is an area in which the legal conditions for combating money laundering are already fairly advanced, including at european level. the problem is that these instruments are not being used sufficiently. this grotius programme helps to ensure that european law is not just law in the books, but law in action. i can therefore say on behalf of my group that we fully support the continuation of the grotius programme, and i would also like to say that the european money is extremely well spent. we welcome the basic features of the programme, which are fully in line with the requirements of law enforcement. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. however, i would also like to say that the needs of legal practitioners are very different. this is because the training systems are different, the level of involvement is very different in the different regions of the european union and, of course, the national judicial systems define the tasks of the different professional groups, whether judges, prosecutors, lawyers, etc., very differently. that was also the unanimous opinion of the legal affairs committee, on whose behalf i am speaking. this is a legal committee with many legal practitioners. i will also illustrate this with a very concrete example. for example, in large cities such as frankfurt, london or paris, training in european money laundering legislation may be of crucial importance, while in regions such as those bordering germany and france or italy and france, this is a relatively minor problem. that is why - and this is the point i am particularly concerned about - flexibility in the area of the grotius programme is crucial to its success. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we believe that it is more sensible to create a flexible, pragmatic, practicable framework in which those who wish to continue their education in european law have the opportunity to determine the content themselves and to tailor the various measures accordingly. we support the programme and wish it to continue to be a success story for the practice of law in the european union.
the commission is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the proposals submitted by the member states, and that the commission has also taken a number of decisions on the basis of the proposals submitted by the member states. the commission's intention is to continue the existing programmes for two years and to launch hippocrates at the same time for the same period, with the main aim of not interrupting the sources of funding and avoiding discontinuities in its action, which could only weaken the projects and the objectives set. the de facto situation is that these programmes ended in 2000. it is imperative that they be renewed as soon as possible. the new hippocrates programme on crime prevention, which is one of the most important aspects of the fight against crime, is named after the famous greek doctor who said that prevention is better than cure and is based on the experience gained by the commission in other title vi programmes. the alignment of the legal basis and the management methods of the new hippocrates programme with those of the others will, i am sure, make it possible to simplify management and use funding formulas that have been well established by five years of experience in the field. in the draft report by mrs keßler, the way forward for the merger of the various programmes is clearly indicated in terms of a timetable which is in fact close to that desired by the commission. this method will also enable the commission to rationalize management and integrate the programmes into an overall framework corresponding to the area of freedom, security and justice envisaged by the treaties, the vienna action plan and the conclusions of the tampere european council. the commission's objective is therefore to integrate all the programmes into coherent blocks and could eventually lead to the presentation of framework programmes under title vi of the treaty on european union and title iv of the treaty establishing the european community, and another in the context of asylum and immigration, which in my view probably deserves differentiated treatment in relation to the other objectives. i am sure that this strategy of merging programmes will increase the efficiency of management and transparency and will also improve the information available to the european parliament on what is to follow. the commission is therefore on the same page as the european parliament and i can only welcome that, but our concern is, of course, to prepare this coordination properly. the commission will therefore continue the work it has already begun and will use this time to identify the essential elements. we will present the proposals for consolidating the programmes along the lines indicated in mrs keßler's report by the end of 2001. we are counting on constructive dialogue and the support of the european parliament to make this operation a success. i now turn to the commission's proposal for a council decision on the establishment of a european judicial network in civil and commercial matters. as you know, article 2 of the treaty on european union states that the objective of the european union is to maintain and develop an area of freedom, security and justice. the vienna action plan and the tampere council conclusions recognised that citizens can only enjoy freedom in a genuine area of justice where everyone can approach the courts and authorities of all member states as easily as in his own country. in an amendment you propose, quite rightly, that this should be specified in the text of the decision we are discussing today. vienna and tampere have been very specific in the area we are dealing with, asking us to study the possibility of extending the principle of a judicial network to the civil sphere and of creating an information system easily accessible to citizens and maintained by a network of national authorities. it is in this context, which is defined by the treaty and by vienna and tampere, that the proposal for a decision under discussion today is to be found. we are seeking above all tangible benefits for citizens, we want them to be able to go to the courts of any member state with the same ease as to the courts of their home member state, in order to enable individuals and businesses to exercise their rights. and we want to do this by putting in place a two-part mechanism, two parts which i want to emphasize because they are equally important to us. firstly, it is a question of building a flexible, non-bureaucratic structure which makes judicial cooperation between the member states more fluid, as is already the case in the criminal field, from which we have learned a great deal. secondly, and equally important, it is a question of going beyond what is now being done in the criminal field, of putting in place a system which provides every citizen with easily understandable and accessible information which at least helps him to overcome his reluctance to defend his rights in a member state other than his own and which, therefore, facilitates his access to justice in that other member state. i should therefore like to thank mrs keßler, the rapporteur, and the rapporteur for the opinion, mrs wallis and mrs wenzel-perillo, for their support of our initiative. as regards the amendments contained in the legislative proposal, i can accept amendments nos 1, 2, 3, 5 and 9 first of all. i would point out, however, with regard to amendment no 3, that we do not see any obstacle to future instruments being able to provide for specific cooperation mechanisms. on the other hand, as regards amendment no 9, it is appropriate to leave some margin of flexibility in its application. as regards amendment no 4, the commission has doubts. this does not mean that it rejects the idea of developing databases in the field of judicial cooperation in civil and commercial matters. on the contrary, we would like to be able to develop such bases in this area, since they could, for example, be of great help in monitoring the implementation of the instruments adopted or to be adopted. we consider the network to be a very useful actor in this respect. therefore, if we cannot accept the amendment as it stands, i would like, in response to parliament's wishes, to make it clear in the recitals that the network can collaborate in the development of specific projects in this area, projects which are well targeted and for which priorities will be duly established, in the light of the immediate actions of the civil justice network. another amendment which the commission cannot adopt in its text but whose spirit will be reflected in the text of the decision is amendment no 7. the commission would like the network to be able to use the services offered by the ida programme as much as possible. the commission can also take up amendments nos 10 and 11 in part, stressing that the three-year period will start to run from the actual implementation of the network. however, i must admit that the presentation of annual statistical reports seems to us to be an excessive burden on the network itself. the commission, however, does not support amendment no 8 and has doubts about amendment no 6 concerning cooperation with the criminal network. we shall do everything possible to ensure that this cooperation is put into practice. however, given the difference in legal basis and pillar between civil judicial cooperation and criminal judicial cooperation, it seems to us inappropriate to incorporate into the text what i am sure will be done in practice anyway. finally, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with this proposal we want to put in place an effective instrument to achieve our ultimate goal: the creation of a european area of justice in civil and commercial matters, a field which is of particular concern not only to the will and daily life of our fellow citizens but also to the proper functioning of the single market.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0117/2001) by mrs auroi, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1251/1999 establishing a support system for producers of certain arable crops.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in this proposal to amend the regulation introducing a support scheme for producers of certain agricultural crops, the commission aims to promote organic farming by growing fodder legumes on set-aside land. however, this should only be possible for farms which participate in regulation (eec) no 2092/91 with their production, i.e. organic farms. the council has already made a number of recommendations on the basis of the commission's proposals. i would like to stress that point. we are calling for the cultivation of leguminous vegetables to be allowed not only on organic farms but also on all livestock farms, in view of bse and mcs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but at least, in addition to organic farms, farms participating in agri-environmental programmes, i.e. farms participating in national environmental programmes approved by the commission under regulation 1257/99, should be taken into account. the argument put forward by the commission in this context that our proposals would abandon the instrument of set-aside is certainly not comprehensible. it is clear to any farmer suffering from bse and mcs who participates in these support measures that this is not a new barrel being opened by the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's farmers are not left with the same problems as those faced by the community. secondly, the commission itself claims that the cultivation of leguminous vegetables for animal feed achieves the desired restoration of soil fertility. it is not clear why only organic farms should benefit from this reprocessing. the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the protection of the environment. we're going to need a lot more of it than we're producing right now. the import of soya may be worthwhile. but if we are serious about sustainable agriculture, we have to take a step forward.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have just received a letter from the president of the commission. i would like to begin by thanking you, mrs auroi, from the bottom of my heart. i would also like to thank the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development for the rapid and thorough consideration of the proposal i have already tabled in plenary in the context of the seven-point package on the use of set-aside land for organic farming. i would like to make it clear, however, that the proposed measure is not intended to replace animal meal, which is currently banned in feedingstuffs. we shall have an opportunity to discuss this aspect in the morning. our objective - the commission's - is quite different, namely to create additional incentives for organic farming, because organic farmers are more dependent on the cultivation of leguminous forage crops such as clover and alfalfa than conventional farming. i therefore believe that the option proposed by the commission will be of great benefit to organic farmers. but we should also not forget that there are good reasons for restricting the use of organic farming. firstly, to ensure that set-aside remains an effective instrument for controlling production in order to keep our aquaculture aid in the blue box. secondly, a certain preference for organic farms is appropriate here because otherwise they will have a much harder time meeting their production requirements. it would be advisable to keep these arguments in mind when tomorrow's debate on the supply and demand relationship for protein crops is held. i therefore have to reject the amendments which aim to use abandoned land for the cultivation of all types of leguminous and protein crops and to extend it to other types of farming than organic farming: amendments nos 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 concern the supply-demand relationship for protein crops. this question was examined and completed by my services after the council had instructed the commission to do so in december and in the framework of the nice summit. i shall be making a statement on this in the house tomorrow morning. that is why i do not want to go into this today. finally, a final and obvious remark on the proposal under discussion today: only if the council can decide quickly will organic farmers be able to benefit from the opportunity offered this year, because our proposal would already take into account the withdrawal period of 15 january 2001 and apply from then on.
- thank you, commissioner. the president of the committee on agriculture and rural development has now asked for a brief statement. we're all here.
mr president, i wanted to refer to rule 122. it's about personal remarks. it says that you can make this personal remark if the speech was made in person. what i do complain about is that no statements have been made about me at all. perhaps i can make a personal remark. i would have liked to have heard someone say that the chairman of the committee on agriculture was very satisfied with what the commission had proposed here and what we had then considered and proposed. no one has said that we have been working on this for years - and i have said this myself - and that we are very pleased that commissioner fischler has now made this proposal and that we are going to start using the setaside and the ecological upgrading of the crop rotation, even though we are not going to accept all the proposals. i was just making a personal comment. thank you, mr president, for giving me this opportunity.
- i see that in his new position, my colleague has not forgotten the tricks that can be used to get the floor. but what you said was interesting, mr president graefe zu baringdorf. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon. the next item is the report (doc. i thank all of you for having stood by so long, especially the members of the commission and their collaborators. (the sitting was closed at 11.50 p.m.)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is a lesson in political development. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. this was changed in 1979 in the form of a veiled declaration - and since that time the debate has been going on. it is being used in the member states, but it has also been used for many years here in parliament and in the commission. the commission departments responsible for this have tried to make it clear to us up to the time of their submission that this is an open declaration, until they finally retracted this assessment with their own submission. we then voted in favour of this good proposal with some improvements - we wanted a positive list, for example. the council then went to the council and there was a debate which produced a result which again goes in the direction of the half-open declaration. the council was expected to do the same. we are disappointed that the commission has adapted its proposal, which was reasonable and required an open declaration, to the council's ideas. in the meantime the rapporteur had dealt with all the associations active in this field: the cooperatives, especially the association of the mixed feed industry, and the raiffeisenverband deutschland. everyone tried to make it clear that this open declaration was not really acceptable and enforceable here. this has now continued in the council, when the associations in parliament were not successful. the council and, as i said, the commission reacted to this. now we have the situation that we have a covert, semi-open declaration. interestingly, the then federal minister of the federal republic of germany also worked on it. but he then had a report given to him, in which he said that he actually wanted the open declaration. when the bse crisis broke out in germany, this minister wrote to me and asked me, as rapporteur and chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development, to ensure that the open declaration was implemented without any ifs and buts. the very minister who had just agreed to the half-open declaration! a real lesson in political culture! the situation in the member states is different now, especially in germany, and we are again facing a wave of bse anxiety. now all those who were on the brakes before are coming and saying: now, let's get the open declaration through! this is our task now. we shall stick to the original commission proposal and our amendments, and that is my proposal. we in parliament will enforce the open declaration. we will negotiate with the council and, if necessary, we will also fail parliament and blame the council if what all the political groups want fails. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that we have the commission on our side and that you will support our positions in the negotiations which have to begin with the council - we are in the co-decision procedure - in your role as mediator which you have to play. we're on the right track. we want the open declaration, without ifs and buts, and we also want the positive list. mr byrne, in our amendment we are setting the commission an objective. we want to see a proposal from the commission, not immediately - we know that this is not possible - but at least by the end of the year, which will give us some indication of the direction in which things could go. you see, we're willing to compromise here, too. (applause from the centre)
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i do not want to go into what mr graefe has said about baringdorf, because david byrne will be commenting on that at the end of the debate. i would like to make a statement on the question of the so-called protein gap. the commission was invited by the agriculture council on 4 december last year to analyse the situation on the market for high-protein crops and to draw the appropriate conclusions from this analysis. in addition, the invitation made it clear that any commission proposals had to be in line with the financial perspective agreed in berlin. the european council meeting in nice a few days later gave further details of this commitment and asked the commission to carry out a detailed analysis of the supply and demand of oil and protein crops, in strict compliance with the financial provisions of berlin. the commission has gladly accepted this invitation, has studied the issues raised in depth and has summarized the results in a working paper and a communication to the council and parliament. what's the matter? in 2000, the european union produced about 3 million tonnes of animal meal. of this, about half a million tonnes were exported to third countries and about another half a million tonnes were used for the production of pet food. the remaining 2 million tonnes were used for pig and poultry feed. the council decision of 4 december last year prohibited the use of such animal protein in animal feed for all farmed animals. until then, it was known to be forbidden only to the ruminants. the key question in this matter is whether there is a problem in replacing the waste of these quantities of animal meal with plant protein and how best to do this. in order to estimate the change in demand for feed, however, we must first look at the evolution of meat consumption and production. the analysis in the working paper is based on the assumption that, following the experience of the 1996 bse crisis, beef consumption per capita will only recover over the next three to four years or so. but this should mean an increase in the consumption and also in the production of pigmeat and poultrymeat. there are therefore two factors determining the demand for feed in pig and poultry production - the lack of animal meal on the one hand and the expected increase in production on the other. in order to replace animal meal in pig and poultry feed, soybean meal is the main product to be considered, as are rapeseed and sunflower meal, fodder peas, field beans, sweet lupins, but also cereals, even though the egg protein content of cereals is relatively low. in practice, the composition of feed is determined by the prices of raw materials, their availability and technical constraints. the combined effect of all these variables is difficult to predict, and it is even more difficult to isolate the changes brought about by the ban from the normal market adjustments or the consequences of other policies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted by the excessive use of the cap. firstly, as the prices of oilseed scrap are relatively higher than those of cereals, the proportion of high-protein feed ingredients will be reduced to the physiologically necessary level. as a result, the total amount of crude protein in animal feed is expected to decrease somewhat compared to recent years, especially 1998 and 1999, when soybean prices were extremely low. secondly, the proportion of cereals in animal feed is likely to increase. although cereals are the main source of energy and less of protein, at an average protein content of 10 to 12%, the 5 million tonnes of cereals fed more than last year will also provide about half a million tonnes of raw protein. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. the slight decrease in the total quantity used and the additional quantity from cereals is expected to result in a demand of between one and one and a half million tonnes of soya. what options have we considered to close this gap that we expect? first, we examined the possibility of raising the aid rate for oilseeds to eur 74 per tonne, rather than keeping it at the same level as cereals, namely eur 63 per tonne, as decided in agenda 2000. the disadvantage of this option is that it would reinstate the crop-specific aid for oilseeds and would subject production to the ceiling set by the blair house agreement. in addition, this option would require an additional extraction cost of approximately eur 1 270 per tonne of soya-bean equivalent, i.e. six times the extra extraction cost of the soya-bean equivalent currently. the budgetary cost of this option would be approximately eur 475 million per year. secondly, we have examined the possibility of increasing the aid rate for peas, beans and sweet lupins by eur 6. we have chosen the 6 euro rate because such an increase would be covered by the peace clause in the wto. the simulations show that, given the current price ratio between protein crops and cereals, this increase would only lead to a very limited increase in the area under cultivation and, of course, since the entire area under cultivation has to be paid for with this higher support, this would also lead to higher additional expenditure than the price of the additional imported soya. fourthly, we have assessed the impact of the cultivation of protein-rich crops on land which is being set aside. if land set aside were to be used for the production of products which would then compete with cereals and oilseeds on the market, this would have the effect of calling into question the bluebox nature of the area premium for cereals, and would also be the subject of strong international criticism. finally, we have examined the possibility of increasing the maximum guaranteed quantity for green flour and dried fodder in conjunction with a reduction in the aid per tonne. but you all know that dried fodder is primarily used for ruminants, not for pigs and poultry, and our problem is primarily a problem of pig and poultry farming. it is also questionable whether an increase of 10% in the maximum guaranteed quantity would actually lead to an increase in the quantity produced, when we have already established an estimated surplus of 12% in dry fodder in the 2000/2001 marketing year. it is very likely that the increase in the guaranteed quantity would be used mainly to cover existing surpluses. in view of this, there are no convincing reasons from an economic point of view for us to introduce new support measures for protein production or to extend the scope of existing support measures. the availability of soybean meal on the world market is not a problem, on the contrary, the additional demand will only increase current imports by around 3 to 5%. the expansion of soybean production in south america and the united states will bring far more soybean waste to the market than the european union can possibly need. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the financing of the common agricultural policy.
- mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the employment gap. i think, however, commissioner, and you know it, that the committee on agriculture clearly wanted to send a signal with the auroi report that the promotion of protein crops on set-aside land should be given a little more support. i am convinced that parliament will follow this line. but back to the first point: the chairman of the committee on agriculture, mr graefe zu baringdorf, said that this was a lesson in the way that compound feedingstuffs have been produced over the years, and he is right. it's a lesson in how different positions were portrayed at different times. there was a back and forth, and eventually the paths were not always straight, there were nooks and crannies. but i think we are certainly on the right track to demonstrate even greater transparency here and not only to demand transparency but also to implement it. there has been opposition, including demands from the business community, to which parliament and its representatives have always resisted by a clear majority. parliament has also taken a clear position on this from the outset, with a view to greater transparency. so in the production of compound feed, you mix. wherever mixing is involved, particular care must be taken, whether this is the case in card games or in the food industry in general. you have to be very careful. we have been careful and it is right that we are making this transparency - commissioner fischler, you are smiling - more visible than in the past. mr graefe zu baringdorf also mentioned the semi-open declaration, which has been something special in recent years. i say that it would have been more correct to speak not of a covert declaration but of a semi-covert one. that might have brought more movement in the direction we want now. the commission's proposal is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction. i would like to take an example from another area of foodstuffs, namely the purity requirement for beer, ladies and gentlemen! already in 1516 the purity law was passed and made law in bavaria, and this proposal from bavaria was right and good. it was a positive list that was put forward then, and a positive list should be put forward now too! (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner fischler, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the council has not adopted a full and open declaration in its common position, but only a meagre compromise which merely provides for the weighting of percentages in terms of ranges. this is not in the spirit of full transparency in the production of feedingstuffs, as we have so often called for here. farmers do not know how much and what kind of feed is contained in the respective batches. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner. the commission is also calling for a positive list of authorized starting materials to be drawn up. the commission is hereby invited to submit a legislative proposal by the end of 2001. we are fully behind this too. it is not so difficult to draw up a list of the ingredients which are authorized, since you know what is generally to be found in the various feedingstuffs. or we know it then, after what was said, but we don't know it today. the eight months proposed by the rapporteur seem to me to be quite appropriate and sufficient for the establishment of such a list. this list is also urgently needed, since we cannot do without industrially produced feedingstuffs in the future. animals, like humans, need a balanced diet. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. since feed is the most important part of meat production, we have to make sure that this feed is also safe. how else are we going to deal effectively with the ongoing crisis of consumer confidence in the food product meat? the council would be well advised to accept parliament's proposals unchanged and thus show that it has learned from past mistakes. we cannot always wait until it is too late and then go around treating the symptoms. we must tackle the problems more fundamentally. i think that we are on the right track with our proposals. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i could now refer to rule 122. but let's not do that. we'll save you some time. mr byrne, thank you for your information and your reply. i would like to make it clear again that i did not want to criticise you personally - or mr van goethem, whom i respect, as far as i know, because he is doing a good job - but i wanted to ask whether the commission had worked out a plan for the disease in cooperation with the member states, so that it was clear what had to happen if the disease occurred. i do not think that this was sufficiently worked out. this was not against individuals, but against the commission and the council, which had not done any preliminary work here, and the confusion we had to witness in public was scandalous! the cologne strategy was also criticised for not including vaccination and vaccination plus recycling, which is now also accepted by the commission - it is indeed moving in that direction little by little - and for not having been thought through well before. commissioner fischler, i have one more question for you: if we were to assume, hypothetically, that we did not have this agreement with the americans, and you were to make a calculation on our proposal to grow beans, peas, lupins, etc. on the setaside areas, would the economic calculation look very different? am i right about that?
- mr president, i have to go. morocco - as we heard this morning - is currently the overriding factor in the eu's fisheries policy. i can understand that very well, because the consequences of the failure to conclude an agreement on fisheries in the iberian peninsula are enormous for all of us. i recently saw for myself that it is. however, we must not remain in a state of inertia but must also look at other important aspects of the common fisheries policy, such as the present report by our colleague, mr jové peres. let me get this straight: fisheries monitoring is not everything, but without monitoring everything is nothing. we know from daily experience that without real and effective controls, the european fisheries policy would be nothing but a bubble. we need to make progress and adapt to modern developments. the international aspects of control were also highlighted at a conference organized by the commission in brussels last october. we also need a global approach. the commission's present proposals are as correct as the new green paper on the reform of the cfp. the responsibility for carrying out the checks is clearly defined. it is up to the member states. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we need community support to continue to make efficient, modern controls possible. i say 'modern' deliberately, because we need - and the commission has set the right priorities here - the introduction of modern technologies, the use of computer networks, the use of satellite-based monitoring systems and increased training of control staff. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the controls are carried out in a fair and transparent manner. i think we should give different signals in the area of control, namely in the sense of the priorities of the cfp. so a budget for this is absolutely necessary!
- mr president, there is to be no debate. mr wim van velzen, who is my deputy and a valued person, cannot be here today because he has to be in sofia for our group. i would like to say to mr imbeni, the vice-president of the european parliament, that despite all the political differences we may have, you are a valued colleague and vice-president. i would suggest that mr wim van velzen and mr imbeni, if you wish, and with my participation, have a talk to discuss the background, which i do not know, which most people do not know. we should be united, mr imbeni, when it comes to defending human rights, we should be united as a house. (applause from the centre)
- amendment no 3 to paragraph 2.2 contains some misunderstandings in the translation. the point is that vaccination does not necessarily involve culling, but that the animals can be used. this was rendered "separation" in some translations. the question is whether we should allow the use of these vaccinated animals in the food chain.
in writing. - (de) politics is like drilling through large boards. and often, progress is made in small steps. we all know what is politically necessary at a time like this to ensure the safety of citizens. we need openness, identification and transparency. the adult citizen wants - and should - decide for himself what he eats. it is clear that this requirement cannot apply only to the finished product. it is therefore of vital interest to document the path followed by our food and to make it transparent. the farmer on the spot assumes responsibility for the protection of the animals and the safety of the foodstuffs. he must justify himself in what he feeds his animals, not only to ensure his economic success (which is also a factor we must not lose sight of), but also to be able to answer the questions of consumers. when i look at certain actions, i sometimes feel that with our demands we are racing against time. for example, my state, rhineland-palatinate, in germany, has introduced a control seal for beef, which is intended not only to guarantee the origin of the animals, but also traceability and nutrition. pet food companies have voluntarily followed suit and are proposing open declaration of ingredients and increased controls. otherwise, farmers would buy the food elsewhere, because only these indications allow them to obtain this seal of control. i would like to see more voluntary commitments of this kind in the future. this would put the council on the move and, for reasons of economic necessity, feed manufacturers would be virtually forced to make open declarations. but here and now we are talking about the political decision, the legal framework, and it must be the same for everyone. that is why we need open declaration, we need traceability and, in addition, we need controls. i hope that the report by mr graefe zu baringdorf will give a new impetus, which will encourage the council to act. i do not understand the commission's position, since it is against a positive list.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the report proposes to use aid to shift freight from road to rail, inland waterway and combined transport. i find this worrying in principle, because on the one hand, of course, article 87 of the ec treaty clearly states that aid in this form is not admissible. secondly, we have guaranteed that the aid will have a guiding function. i find this fundamentally worrying. i also wonder why, ten years after we liberalised transport markets, we are now beginning to divert and control through taxes and subsidies. this cannot in principle be a positive development for the future of the transport market.
in writing. - (de) given that foot-and-mouth disease has been declared in at least four member states of the union, the ban on the foot-and-mouth disease vaccine, which was decided in 1991 and is in force at european level, must be reviewed as a matter of urgency and even lifted. some politicians - such as the german minister of agriculture renate künast - who are opposed to the use of foot-and-mouth disease vaccines should reconsider their position. the reasons for the ban on the vaccine are no longer valid today, as there are now better vaccines against foot-and-mouth disease. despite this, research for the development and production of vaccines against foot-and-mouth disease should be promoted. the following vaccines should be authorised by the european commission and the council of ministers in particular: emergency vaccinations (ring vaccinations) in areas affected by foot-and-mouth disease and in buffer zones adjacent to these areas and for zoos.
- mr president, of course we condemn these outrages, whoever is committing them. but this resolution contains inaccuracies, distortions, lies, half-truths and cannot therefore be accepted. i believe that this issue is too serious to be used for partisan and ideological purposes. but that's exactly what's happening here. the vatican has neither a world police nor a world court to pursue these things, but this is primarily a matter for the state authorities to whom we must turn. we are of course supporting the holy see in its efforts to combat these practices. but we must be clear that this resolution is clearly aimed at - as mrs malmström has quite openly stated - weakening the role of the holy see in international organisations, where it often takes a different approach to that of many member states' governments to the family, to the protection of life and to sexual abuse. in this respect, this resolution is hypocritical and unacceptable. i think it's dangerous because this topic has been used too often by totalitarian forces in the 20th century to discredit the church. we can't go that way! the religious who stand up for other people don't deserve this kind of defamation!
- mr president, what kind of undignified national holiday is this when the ruling power in pakistan calls on its own people to actively support the social and social model and when thousands of civil rights activists are being imprisoned on the eve of this event? the police arrested those who were fighting for solidarity and justice, and instead of activists in hiding, they arrested their families. among those arrested was nasrullah khan, the leader of the democratic renewal movement. the actions of the pakistani military government are totally unacceptable. the statements and declarations of intent of those in power can no longer be believed. pakistan must fulfill its obligations as a member of the united nations! this includes basic rights such as the safeguarding of freedom of expression and freedom of assembly. the european parliament has already been given a mandate to make a statement on the situation in the middle east. we call on the commission to put all its political weight on the line and to work for the early release of the prisoners. the head of the military government, general musharraf, is responsible for the fact that the return to democracy and humanity is still being prevented. the foreign and domestic stability of these rulers of the islamic republic of pakistan is only a show. it will only be realized when the decision of the supreme court is implemented, namely that free elections will be held throughout the country. the deadlines for their implementation must be respected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. in the field of human rights, the european union must be active in pakistan in particular and involve the people who often risk their lives in the field of human rights, namely the non-governmental organizations. we are called to do so. it would be our contribution to a great national holiday in pakistan. let us hope that we succeed, commissioner. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in cyprus. it appears that mr tsiakourmas was abducted from the british military base in dhakalia. the british government has therefore raised this incident on several occasions with the head of the turkish cypriot community and with the authorities in ankara. the general affairs council will be considering this case at its meeting next monday. the commission has been following developments since our delegation in nicosia very closely. according to our information, the trial against mr tsiakourmas resumed this week in famagusta and a verdict can be expected shortly. like mr katiforis, i believe that this case, like many others, must be seen in the context of the political situation in cyprus. we are making use of all the possibilities of contact with the parties concerned to try, as you know, to promote a political solution to the partition of the island. as regards the turkish side, which mr maccormick and mr alyssandrakis have mentioned, i am sure that this is one of the issues we are dealing with in the framework of the political dialogue between the union and turkey, which was established in an enhanced form by the european council in helsinki. as regards the second point on human rights, which is your motion for a resolution on violence against nuns, we consider the case of catholic nuns to be a serious violation of women's fundamental rights and a shocking example of violence against women. as those who spoke know, the union is firmly committed to the fight against violence against women. we are committed in all our institutions to respecting the principles contained in the united nations convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, and in particular to respecting the commitments made in beijing not so long ago at the fourth conference on women. as regards human rights in pakistan, the commission shares the view of the members of parliament who have tabled resolutions on the subject, stating that the recent arrests of 'political activists' belonging to the alliance for the restoration of democracy are a major concern. in its discussions with the pakistani government last november, the eu troika asked the administration to lift restrictions on the activities of political parties, including the ban on public demonstrations. political parties cannot and should not be excluded from political life in pakistan, any more than elsewhere, since they are obviously called upon to play an important role in the future of the country. we expect tangible progress in restoring representative democracy at all levels, starting with the holding of elections to the provincial and national assemblies on the basis of a clear and credible timetable. the pakistani authorities have given the eu troika a firm commitment to respect the deadline, set by the supreme court, of three years from the military coup for the holding of these elections. although the government has confirmed that political parties will be allowed to participate in provincial and national elections, as many of you have pointed out, it is clear that only the swift lifting of the ban on public demonstrations will strengthen confidence in the process of restoring democracy in pakistan. as regards the last point, the situation of homosexuals in namibia, we, like the authors of this resolution, have noted with astonishment and concern the recent statement on homosexuality by namibian president sam nujoma calling for the persecution of individuals identified as homosexuals. we have always maintained that all individuals are entitled to the enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms. we believe that every state must protect and promote these rights and contribute actively to the abolition of all forms of discrimination on grounds of race, sex, political opinion, religious belief, etc. this is our position, which also reflects the position publicly adopted by the government of the republic of namibia up to now, as evidenced by its constitution and all the international conventions on human rights which namibia has ratified. we therefore welcome any approach to the namibian authorities to seek clarification on this matter and express the hope that these recent statements do not signal a repudiation of the namibian constitutional provisions which prohibit discrimination.
- thank you, mr lamy. i take this opportunity to inform our hosts that parliament reserves two and a half hours every thursday to discuss serious problems, serious violations of human rights all over the world. otherwise, of course, we also deal with many european issues. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 6.30 p.m.
- the following motions for resolutions are requested for joint debate: - b5-0262/2001 by mr seguro and mr naïr, on behalf of the pse group; - b5-0275/2001 by mr knörr borràs and mr lipietz, on behalf of the green group; - b5-0283/2001 by mr marset campos and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; - b5-0289/2001 by mr salafranca sánchez-neyra and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party; - b5-0297/2001 by mr gasòliba i böhm and others, on behalf of the eldr group, on the situation in mexico.
commission mr president, the commission fully shares the views of the members of parliament who signed the resolutions you are considering on the recent events in mexico. the new mexican government and the zapatista army of national liberation have confirmed their commitment to seek a political solution and have, we hope, opened the way to a peaceful resolution of this conflict. in this context, we naturally welcome the recent entry into force of the new comprehensive agreement signed between the union and mexico. this agreement, as mr seguro has said, will enable us to continue to support this process as it has just begun in mexico. as you know, this agreement goes far beyond purely trade and cooperation objectives. it contains a clause on 'human rights' which is now at the heart of relations between the union and mexico. it also includes a compliance clause, which allows us to take account of the changing human rights situation in this country and its states. the agreement also provides for a mechanism to enable the parties to react in the event of failure to meet contractual objectives. in addition to cooperation on human rights, democracy and good governance, this agreement also provides us with a legal framework for cooperation in the cultural, educational and training fields, with special attention, as is the case in this country, to the most disadvantaged social groups. we also have a framework for regional cooperation and, last but not least, a focus on social affairs and poverty, which includes vulnerable groups such as the indigenous population, while taking into account the need to respect the fundamental rights of these indigenous mexican populations as groups. on the ground, and as a practical application of all this, and in accordance with the national strategy document for mexico, which is now being adopted, we are working on an important project for the development of the lacandonia forest in chiapas, and this project has the specific purpose not only of working with the populations concerned, but also of aiming at educating them in the idea of sustainable development, thus combining both environmental sustainability action and social action. that is what we are doing very concretely at the moment.
- thank you, chief. the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place today at 6.30 p.m.
- the following motions for resolutions are requested for joint debate: - b5-0276/2001 by mr maes and others, on behalf of the green group; - b5-0284/2001 by mrs morgantini, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; - b5-0290/2001 by mr van hecke, on behalf of the ppe-de group; - b5-0292/2001 by mrs muscardini, on behalf of the uen group; - b5-0301/2001 by mr van den bos, on behalf of the eldr group, on the situation in somalia and the attack on médecins sans frontières.
commission - mr president, i should like to begin this short speech by saying that the commission strongly and firmly condemns any attack on humanitarian personnel, and i say this in terms similar to those just used by mr sylla. that said, we are relieved to learn, as mrs ghilardotti did, that the last two hostages have been released. nevertheless, we believe that the kidnapping highlights the need to end the violent tensions in central and southern somalia, a context in which each of the speakers has just situated their remarks. you can count on the commission's readiness to offer help in the reconstruction effort of the country in all respects, and god knows that is necessary. we are doing so and will continue to do so in close cooperation with all other actors, making use of the coordination of aid which is carried out within the framework of the somalia aid coordination body, which also covers the un agencies. the humanitarian rehabilitation aid granted by the commission to somalia is considerable. they are fully supported by all the political authorities of the union and the recent troika mission of the european union to somalia has shown us how much the intervention of the commission is both necessary and appreciated in the regions visited. we are determined to continue to support these rehabilitation efforts in all the relatively peaceful regions of the country, in particular somaliland and puntland, in accordance with the approach adopted, which is known as the 'peace dividend'. at the same time, we support the transitional government in its efforts to establish an environment of peace and security in the part of the country still marked by conflict and the absence of any administrative structure. there are areas of somalia where rehabilitation operations are not possible under the current circumstances, and in those areas we will continue to provide humanitarian aid through echo, which works with ngos and un agencies. the union has adopted a policy, particularly in the declaration of 8 september, and that policy, i would remind you, calls on the transitional government to engage without delay in a dialogue with the existing administrative entities - i mentioned somaliland and puntland earlier - in order to avoid losing the momentum created by the arta process, in accordance with the resolutions of the east african heads of state summit. we also stress the importance of including in this process of national reconciliation all those who did not participate in the arta conference, with a view to attempting to restore national unity. in any case, and i repeat, we for our part exclude any assistance to any attempt, from any source, to establish the authority of a government in this country by force and to jeopardize the achievements of peace and stability, fragile but nonetheless real, in certain parts of the country. we cannot accept that a peace process leads to new conflicts in regions where peace has been established with the active support of the international community, and we share the view of the interventions which have advocated this resolution.
- thank you, mr lamy. today the commission has been too disciplined. she spoke less than expected, mr lamy, and that is why we are going to take a break of about 20 minutes now, because according to the agenda the next two items on the agenda will not be taken until 5.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 5.10 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. our dutch colleague, mr jan albert maat, is my group's shadow rapporteur on this report by our esteemed colleague, mrs rosa miguélez ramos. he apologized and asked me to speak for him. that is what i intend to do with this, and i quote his words in english:
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i've never had so much time to talk to you before. i don't know how to fill those seven minutes. this is a very serious matter. europe is also increasingly concerned with the role of the so-called liberal professions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of the single market. unfortunately, what we hear from the european institutions is not always easy to understand and interpret and explain in the right direction. we know, for example, that a few months ago there were statements by the commissioner responsible for competition, mario monti. mr monti, speaking at an international conference, said that he considered that the rules governing the rates of pay of the professions, which are partly statutory in nature, such as the rules governing lawyers' fees in some of our member states, were not without problems under competition law. it is not the commission's intention to take action on this issue. we also have the situation where an italian court has referred a question for a preliminary ruling to the european court of justice, which was heard in the autumn of last year, and where the european court of justice will now have to give a specific ruling on the admissibility of italian rules on lawyers' fees under european law. now we have liberalised markets in many areas of the european union. but we have not usually liberalised them by saying overnight, that's it. we're going to let you all compete in the open! i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is only in this specific area of the professions that such policy considerations at the level of the european union do not yet seem to exist, or at least to be insufficient. i think it is very important that the commission should in future also pay more attention to this sector of the professions and take care of the specific needs of these sectors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. for example, the fee systems adopted by the national legislature in the member states have been adopted in the context of ensuring that consumers are protected when using the services of these professions. i think that these aspects should also have an impact on the policies of the european union and should be reflected in the strategies that are being developed. we now know that the commission has just presented a paper on the services sector and the problems of the internal market which exist in the services sector. i think that is very welcome. i am only surprised that this paper also takes a purely horizontal approach and does not deal with the specific situations, interests and concerns of individual sectors in the service sector. but the service sector is very large. i am very clear that i do not think that professions such as doctors or lawyers can necessarily be treated according to the same criteria as the supermarket around the corner, where, of course, the socio-political tasks are of a very different nature. it should also be borne in mind that these professions are largely subject to specific rules of professional law, whether they relate to competition law, advertising law, standards of conduct or specific obligations. we voted on the second reading of the money laundering directive this afternoon. these included such commitments as: i think that a specific policy approach to this sector, to these professions, would be more than appropriate. that is why we said in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market: we want this parliament to take up this matter and, by way of this oral question, we want to force the commission to deal more with the subject of the professions than it has done so far. that is why we have tabled this oral question with the text before you, which you all know and which i do not wish to go into in more detail. i should like to say a few words about the task which my group has set itself and which is the reason why this resolution was tabled. it's not enough to talk about it. we should also take this opportunity in the plenary to put our demands in concrete terms in a short resolution from the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and i am sure that the commission will continue to make proposals in the future. i also expect the commission to make specific proposals and opinions on the basis of this resolution on the further development of the policy towards the professions and to answer the question of how it wishes to accompany the modern developments which our society is bringing about - the professions cannot be closed to development either, they must of course also take into account that times are changing and the world is developing further - from its political point of view. a further note on the side: most of the professions are also small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i've just talked for six minutes. i must thank you very much. i'll pass on the last minute.
madam president, if the council is not here today, we regret it. we know very well that the request for the council to be represented here was made at very short notice. i do not want to criticise the swedish presidency as a swedish presidency, but i would like to say one thing for the future, madam president: just as we expect the commission to be present during the european parliament's session, it must also be possible in future for the council of ministers to make itself available for statements when the european parliament meets in brussels or strasbourg. (applause from the centre) we should concentrate our efforts on this, after the great success we had just last week in agreeing on a regulation on transparency and access to documents, that it is also a matter of course in the future that the council of ministers, which is always welcome here, will not only be welcomed by us when it is ready to do so, but that the council of ministers should always be present in the future! (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i refer to the statement by mr corbett and to your statement, madam president. i would like to say on behalf of the group of the european people's party that the president of this parliament has acted correctly on the matter at hand and we express our full confidence in you, madam president, on this matter too! (applause from the right) it is astonishing that in every week of the partsession, whether here in brussels or in strasbourg, the socialist group brings this subject up for debate. mr corbett, you are concerned about the reputation of the european parliament, as you say. in reality, you are concerned with the italian election campaign and you want to help your political friends to benefit from the debate here in brussels. (applause from the right) i am now in a position - unlike the president - to make reference to the fact that the honourable member, mrs garot, has not been able to travel to madrid, because we are dealing with allegations. the president of the european parliament has given a discreet hint. yes, why is it that mrs. garot couldn't travel? because her husband passed away. we would like to express our condolences to our colleague mrs garot. i say this so that we do not continue to work with insinuations! (applause from the right) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but if the conference of presidents has finally reached a unanimous decision, then that should also be taken into account. it was unanimously decided that the constitutional committee, chaired by mr napolitano, who is not a member of our group, should now draw up a report on how we deal with the procedures for the waiver of immunity. it was a unanimous decision. i am therefore very surprised to learn that after the conference of presidents a letter from the chairman of the socialist group to the president of parliament was received, in which the decision we had agreed to was again called into question. if it were a different person, if it were a country that is not in the electoral campaign, then i am sure that the socialist group would not always make this a subject here in parliament. we therefore reject in the strongest possible terms these attempts to influence the electoral campaign in italy and the formation of a democratic government in italy. (applause from the right)
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. at the beginning of the negotiations on the proposal for a regulation on public access to parliament, council and commission documents, the committee on budgetary control considered an opinion on the proposal and i myself drafted the opinion. i would like to repeat the principles which are still valid today. we had highlighted three main points, namely, first, transparency and openness, which are the basic prerequisites for any democratic control. these principles promote the legitimacy, efficiency, accountability and proximity of the administration to the citizen. they also provide protection against arbitrariness and abuse of power. they also help to detect, punish and prevent irregularities and fraud, which have been a particular burden for the commission in the past. the second main point is that the documents of the institutions are in principle made public. the necessary exceptions shall be justified. this is now anchored. in addition, i did not think it was appropriate at the time to draw up a comprehensive catalogue listing existing legal provisions, which would only create uncertainty and conflict. the third main point is the concern of the public to ensure the practical exercise of their rights through a clear register, as is now required, and with the help of the internet, as well as the rapid response to requests for documents and the justification for any rejection of the request, and finally to use the language of the applicant. i could have imagined a coordinating body to facilitate all this. i am pleased to note that the basic conditions are in place, although not yet fully. that is the purpose of the revision. i also believe that the framework agreement must be revised to bring it into line with the demands we are making on the public and on relations between the institutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i could say that john said it all. i could say the same thing. but i might want to add a few other accents. the reason for the haste we are showing is also that we simply want to show that this parliament is behind this country, is behind macedonia, and we want to help it to overcome the current crisis quickly. we are naturally pleased that the parliament in macedonia has also fully embraced the european map and has agreed to this agreement. that tells us who it's chosen. but it must also be made clear in macedonia that this union is a union of values. we do not always respect them all, but these values include a high degree of tolerance, a high degree of respect for others, a high degree of protection of minorities. i believe that this is why we in macedonia need to work together across party lines to achieve this tolerance threshold. there must be a common fight against criminals. i am deeply sorry for the death of the four macedonian soldiers, which happened in these days. we must therefore fight together against criminals and agitators. all are called to distance themselves, to condemn these acts and to create a climate of tolerance, to promote it daily, in all media, including in the macedonian parliament and in macedonian society. the albanian terrorism must be condemned, but it cannot be answered by slavonic macedonian nationalism. i think john said it too, he just didn't put it as strongly as i did. reason must enter macedonian society, and that is why i believe that all politicians are called upon to eliminate the reasons for such actions - alleged or real. it is true that the albanian population has not yet reached the level of participation in public offices and public life which would enable it to reject any attack on the fragile interethnic balance. this is partly a legacy of the communist past, but partly it is also a fact that in recent years not enough efforts have been made to establish this interethnic balance better. in my conversations with then president kligorov, i heard him say repeatedly that he recognized this issue and that he was taking action. i must also say that the government of the day did not necessarily respond to these appeals. that is why it is all the more incomprehensible that after the good handling of the kosovo crisis, when the entire macedonian people, the slav macedonians and the albanians have really welcomed these refugees, in a really good way, that just at this moment, when the albanians hold key ministries, the law on higher education is passed, the fate of the university of tetovo is resolved with our help and the help of other states with additional financial resources, the academic year can now begin, that precisely now the fire is being set. i think that this is not so much for genuinely political and rational reasons as for the sake of maintaining a permanent hotbed of crisis where terrorists can operate. i very much hope that all sensible politicians in macedonia will join forces with this treaty to launch even more initiatives for a functioning macedonian society in the light of the new european window. i would also like to appeal to the international community, to unmik, to kfor, to do everything possible to help macedonia by adopting a better, more consistent policy in kosovo, where dissatisfaction is releasing more and more terrorist potential. many areas of macedonia's politics still need help. we should help them in the area of jurisdiction, in the problems of corruption, human trafficking, which is a big problem in the whole region. i particularly welcome the fact that the border treaty with yugoslavia was the first in the region to be concluded. i would also like to see training of media representatives who are worthy of the title, so that we do not add fuel to the fire unnecessarily. i hope that the politicians here today and their friends will do everything possible to ensure that their young people can stay in the country in the future, because it is their future. but they need jobs, and they need a perspective. i therefore welcome the establishment of the five regional enterprise promotion centres. i hope they succeed. the most important thing is political stability, because only then will the companies settle. we as the eu can provide the necessary assistance to them under our new treaty. i am sure that we will do our utmost, together with the commission.
commission. – before i turn to the question of the stabilisation and association agreement, let me place on record our condemnation of the attack on the kosovo foreign border at the weekend in which eight fyrom soldiers were killed. as commission patten said at the weekend, this was an attack against democracy, an attack designed to derail the interparty dialogue that has recently begun in fyrom on interethnic relations, a dialogue which the european union has strongly supported. we continue to stand four square for the values of tolerance and moderation and in support of those who seek to resolve differences through dialogue instead of the bomb and the bullet. that is why the signature of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and fyrom which took place in luxembourg on 9 april was such an important event. it is the first such agreement we have signed with a country in the region and it symbolises the strong ties that exist between the union and fyrom. it was signed in the presence of the european union's foreign ministers and representatives of nearly all the parties: opposition government, albanian, macedonian, slav, which are represented in the parliament in skopje. the message was one of unity, unity in the face of the threats to democracy that fyrom has recently faced and continues to face today. unity in a shared belief in fyrom's future as a key member of the european family. the negotiations were launched by the commission on 5 march 2000. thanks to excellent cooperation with the macedonian authorities, the negotiations were concluded within nine months and the agreement was initialled in the margins of the zagreb summit on 24 november. the main elements of the agreement are the establishment of a free trade area between the community and fyrom within a ten-year period after the entry into force of the agreement, the establishment of a political dialogue, provisions on regional cooperation provisions on the freedom of movement of workers, freedom of establishment, supply of services, a commitment by the fyrom authorities to approximate legislation to that of the european community especially in the internal market, cooperation in areas such as justice and home affairs, establishment of a stabilisation and association council that supervises the implementation of the agreement. the agreement makes clear that fyrom is a potential candidate for membership of the european union once it has implemented the agreement and subject to the copenhagen criteria. the interim agreement also signed on 9 april provides for the trade-related provisions of the agreement to enter into force from 1 june 2001, without having to wait for the formal ratification of the agreement by national parliaments. the commission invites the european parliament to give its assent to the agreement and we hope that national parliaments will ratify the agreement as quickly as possible. as honourable members are aware, this is a critical period in fyrom's history. this agreement and parliament's support for it underline the european union's commitment to fyrom's wellbeing and the confidence in our people. that is the context in which the presidency, commissioner patten and the high representative have been working hard in recent weeks to facilitate the dialogue between democratically elected political parties in fyrom, initiated by president trajkovski and which is designed to address legitimate grievances. that hard work will continue, but as with the agreement, while the european union will wish to be as supportive as possible, ultimately the main effort must be made by the people of fyrom and their political leaders. it is they who carry responsibility for their countries future which is why it is so important to press ahead now with the political dialogue. thank you all for your contributions and thank you also to mr swoboda.
commission. – mr president, honourable members, the chernobyl accident in 1986 was a tragedy on a global scale and we continue to feel strongly for the victims this tragedy has caused, both among those involved in the clean-up and plant workers, and among people not directly involved, including innocent children. we also recognise the huge economic burden this accident has put on belarus, russia and ukraine and other countries and the problems for the population in contaminated regions to restore normal living conditions. the consequences of the accident on eu territory were comparatively minor but nevertheless important efforts continue to be made for monitoring levels of radioactivity in the environment and in foodstuffs: controls on the import of foodstuffs were even recently strengthened. the commemoration of this event provides us with an opportunity to reflect upon nuclear safety in the region. on 15 december 2000, ukraine shut down definitively the chernobyl nuclear power plant. the commission welcomed this decision as a major contribution to the improvement of nuclear safety in europe. we also appreciate that by deciding to close the chernobyl plant before the end of 2000, ukraine lived up to the commitment it made under the international agreement signed with the governments of the of the g7 countries and with the european commission. the european union has provided considerable support to ukraine over the last few years in addressing and overcoming the consequences of the chernobyl accident, which had such devastating effects on the population and the environment. over eur 340 million have been granted in assistance today, not taking into account technical assistance provided for other nuclear installations in the ukraine. for chernobyl, important eu support is related to turning the sarcophagus into an environmentally acceptable system and addressing social needs. the commission will soon adopt the formal proposal for a council decision on a second contribution to the chernobyl shelter fund at the ebrd which will then be submitted to the council and to parliament for decision. nuclear safety is a priority for the european union. since the beginning of the political and economic reforms that took place in the former soviet union, the european union has actively assisted the countries of the region in improving the safety of their nuclear installations. the strategy followed by the eu was in line with the g7 multilateral programme of action. this included support for short-term measures for nuclear safety improvements as well as longer-term measures to replace unsafe reactors by alternative energy sources. in the particular case of the candidate countries of central and eastern europe, the phare programme has helped and continues to help improve nuclear safety there as well as to develop economically and environmentally sound energy strategies for the replacement of the less safe nuclear reactors. as requested by the council, the commission has given a high priority to nuclear safety in the accession partnerships and in using pre-accession funds to pursue these priorities. important landmarks are: the agreement to close non-upgradeable units in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria; the support that the programme has given to the nuclear regulators; the short-term urgent safety improvements made to some reactors; the design and operational improvements in upgradeable reactors and also considerable assistance to tackle the problems related to radioactive waste and spent fuel. the case of the russian federation is particularly important. russia is the only state of the former soviet union involved in all aspects of nuclear power, from uranium mining to plant design, power generation and spent fuel reprocessing. some 15% of electricity in russia is generated by nuclear power. russia's civil nuclear industry is also a major source of employment accounting for approximately 300 000 people in direct jobs. given the limited size of the available eu budget, the large number of operating reactors and the special economic conditions in russia, it would be impossible for the european union to offer russia financial assistance equivalent to that made available to the candidate countries and to ukraine. nonetheless the basic policy orientation is the same: to use the technical and financial resources available to the european union to help the russian federation improve safety levels. with regard to russia, we also pursue an active cooperation in spent fuel and radio active waste management in north-west russia. an enormous quantity of spent fuel from nuclear submarines is stored under very poor conditions. this poses a major threat to the barents sea and the arctic environment. the community is not party to the arctic monitoring and assessment programme, but is nevertheless closely involved in the work related to environmental radioactivity in the arctic. we are at present involved in active negotiations on a specified multilateral agreement, the mnepr, which should allow us to set up and implement a large international effort. to conclude, the commission has undertaken an active policy in assisting our partner states in their efforts to increase nuclear safety. we are committed to continue this policy and hope very much that together we can ensure a secure and safe energy supply consistent with sustainable development and respect for the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the chernobyl accident is a tragedy, and it is not just the nuclear accident that is the cause of the tragedy. i am particularly concerned about this because, of course, in the debate, it is often assumed that chernobyl is everywhere. it's not that! twelve years ago a dictatorship collapsed which from the outset did not have the standard of technical security that we have in the world, and especially in europe. it is also important to note that in a democracy there is a public debate. it's a safety issue. it has independent supervisory authorities that is a contribution to security and it has independent courts that is also a contribution to security. in other words: a democratic system with the rule of law is in itself such an important contribution to security that all parallels must be made clear at this point. the cynical attitude of a dictatorship towards an inherently unsafe nuclear power plant and four units which have been shut down since december under international pressure has had consequences which are borne mainly by the people of the countries concerned. i must say that, even 12 years after the collapse of the soviet union, many of its politicians have still not renounced the cynicism of their treatment of the population, as the very bad treatment of the population at the time of the kursk disaster has shown. it is still not a matter of course to discuss with the public. this must be mentioned at the appropriate time! if our resolution says that there is widespread concern, it is correct. i also note that some people are feeding this concern in the wrong way, in order to pursue a completely different objective, namely to put the unsafe and unsafe nuclear power stations currently being built in the world - and, incidentally, soon in the union and the united states - in the same pot, which is not permissible. it's not like that in other technology industries, where if a car crashes, not all cars get banned, and if a plane crashes, that's very bad, but it doesn't get all planes banned. we want help for ukraine. but we must tell ukraine and ourselves that giving money cannot calm us down, but that the conditions must be created so that money can fulfil its purpose in a functioning economy, which it must fulfil in a democracy. we therefore expect - the resolution makes this clear - a lot of changes and changes in the energy system of ukraine. the commissioner said that the commission was not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. we have nine nuclear power plants there with 27 units. we know from them that three power plants with eight blocks to shut down. but we also know that another part of the nuclear power stations can be retrofitted, and now i come to an exciting question to you, commissioner: the commission is negotiating accession on behalf of the european union, also through the chapter 'energy standard security'. parliament is still waiting for you to explain to us and to the public what safety standards you are negotiating with nuclear power stations. i know that you have promised this to parliament on several occasions, but it is still open. the commission is in a debt of gratitude here. i hope that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and the committee on research, technological development and energy will soon receive a clear answer from you on the basis of which safety standards you will negotiate with the applicant countries. this is a question of great interest to all of us and to the population.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, drugs only harm people if they are abused and, as with alcohol and tobacco, they can be understood to a limited extent as a means of pleasure. drugs only lead to bad things when they're abused. i see it as a problem of society. the drugs then act more as a catalyst. that's why i think that if you fight drugs, you're not really doing people any good. the best solution is for people to decide for themselves how much they want to use and how much they do not want to use. that is why i think we are not going to get very far with this initiative. it is ultimately about more repression, more powers for europol, and that does not help us to live our lives in our own way. there is an alternative to this proposal, which is the pill test, also called drug checking. there have been several very successful projects, in the netherlands, switzerland, also in vienna and germany. the european monitoring centre for drugs in portugal has given a very good judgment to drug checking and is still active in this area. therefore, i think we should not agree to this repressive measure. we as greens will certainly not do that, but will instead rely on the self-determination of the people who want to consume these resources.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. first of all, i should like to thank mr katiforis for his report. what is this report about? the key decisions on the implementation of economic and monetary union were taken in may 1998. the economic and monetary union and the introduction of a european currency became irreversible at that time. what were the basics back then? the first is the independence of the european central bank, which is the way to ensure monetary stability, and the second is the stability and growth pact, which is to ensure that the european currency cannot be jeopardized by the budget. the first objective we pursued when we introduced the european currency - and this is particularly true of my group - was to create a stable currency for europe. we now have the report by mr katiforis on the implementation of the stability and growth pact. we must remember what this stability and growth pact demands. it calls for balanced budgets or surpluses in those countries which are still over-indebted. at that time, when we were discussing the stability and growth pact in the context of the maastricht treaty, we were still talking about a net new debt of 3%, which was the entry condition at that time. but today the question is: are we balancing budgets or are we running surpluses? the question is, what's the news? the first message is positive: in euroland - the 12 countries which have adopted the currency, which can also be called the european home market or the eurozone - in these 12 countries we have on average - i say quite deliberately, on average - balanced budgets. that is a positive thing. on the other hand, you have to be aware of the risks. on the one hand, we have achieved this objective in a growth phase which we cannot or will not achieve again next year, namely with a growth rate of 3.4%, a fat year in the sense of economic policy. the bible recommends that you save for the lean years in the fat years. secondly, there were the umts licences which have poured money into the coffers of our finance ministers. thirdly, we have to consider that the age pyramid is coming and that we have to take care of the expenses that will come to us in this context. i am convinced that this opportunity has not been sufficiently exploited, that this positive environment has not been sufficiently exploited. i am particularly concerned about the fact that some countries still have very high levels of overall debt, and in some cases a somewhat short-term structure of this debt. we need to see these risks. we must therefore also call for the consolidation efforts which have been initiated and which are impressive in some countries but insufficient in others to be continued. i must also tell you that i am concerned about my home country germany, because our growth is below the average of the eurozone. we have not achieved a balanced budget, although the umts licences have brought considerable financial benefits, particularly in germany. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we can agree with him as he stands now. we are concerned, however, about two amendments which have the same content, namely that investment should be excluded from the calculation of the margins of the stability and growth pact. we also believe that investment is necessary, that budgets must be restructured with a view to more investment, but within the framework of the stability and growth pact. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
president. - mr president, my group supports the rapporteur who has made it very clear that the convergence and stability programmes are of great importance in order to achieve genuine economic policies in the european union and in particular in the eurozone, which are a matter of common interest. we see the broad outlines of economic policy on the one hand, but on the other hand we see the stability and convergence programmes. i would also like to recall in this context that the stability and growth pact has so far been mainly geared towards achieving stability. but he always had the growth component. the rapporteur is therefore quite right in his approach, which points out that it makes sense to use investments - private but also public investments - to actually achieve a knowledge-based society of the future in the european union. if this public investment is used for information technology, other new technologies and improved and modernised infrastructure in the euro zone, in the european union, then this is the right way to go. that is why it is so important that we re-open the debate on the quality of public finances. the commission has thankfully provided a model which will also play an important role in future discussions on the stability and convergence programmes. because when assessing the state of public finances - that is the point - when analysing the content of the convergence and stability programmes, you have to make sure that you see the right trend, that you see the right development, but also that you do not lose sight of the possibility of countering this when you deal with it. mr von wogau, you have pointed out the dangers. they pointed out that the old biblical proverbs of lean years and fat years should still have relevance for financial policy makers in the european union today. but we must also look at the impact of expenditure on monetary policy, particularly when we analyse public finances. the reason why we should work with sound public finances in the eurozone is that a bad financial situation could endanger monetary stability. the one-off proceeds were not spent on consumer spending as in previous decades, but were also used to reduce debt and investments. we must also consider the extent to which this form of economic policy coordination can be used to ensure social and employment stability in addition to monetary stability. here too, both the countries in the euro zone and those not yet in it, and the future candidates for accession, have an obligation and a challenge.
- mr president, i have to go. the pace of economic activity in the eu is slowing down noticeably. the growth forecasts have been revised by the commission and the imf from over 3% to 2.8%. the inflation rate exceeded the 2% threshold by 0.3 percentage points. the reasons for this are well known. the european union is a major player in the world economy. the united states economy is suffering from a hard landing, especially in our export-oriented member states. the report by mr katiforis, which has been made more precise by numerous amendments tabled by the epp group, stresses the importance of monitoring the stability and convergence programmes for economic cooperation in europe. there is no reason for passivity, as the duke has said. the reduction of public debt must remain a top priority. but it also requires targeted investment in information networks, technology, research and development. in this way, we are moving closer to the very ambitious lisbon target of becoming the most competitive, dynamic and knowledge-based economy in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. life long learning is far too often a cliché and far too little a necessity for me, and curricula and learning plans lack this whole thing. the european council in brussels in december last year, in the context of the european council in brussels, expressed the hope that the european council would be able to take a decision on the future of the euro. the euro remains stable, despite all the political demands of different quarters. i'm concerned with the stability of the structure. in economic and social policy, our member states should benefit from benchmarking and the exchange of best practice. the opposite of this - namely bad practice - is currently being delivered in my country. germany is the last in the eurozone with growth of less than 2.2%. the time for chancellor schröder to paint problems with a smile is over! in the face of lack of success in employment, partly because programmes are not effective enough, he tries to distract from his own mistakes, defaming the unemployed in general as lazy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the example shows that by linking data and information more closely, we know very well what shortcomings exist in individual member states. they are no longer hidden under the carpet, but they are in the spotlight of the european public. no eu country can do without budgetary discipline, without sustainable debt reduction, without substantial structural reforms, because the objectives are worthwhile - competitiveness and stability!
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking mr harbour for his excellent report. i'm not flattering you, i mean it. i congratulate him on his report, which on the one hand gives a very comprehensive account of the commission's initiatives, but on the other hand also gives a great deal of its own suggestions. i would also like to thank him for the openness with which he has dealt with our own positions, proposals and amendments. i would like to express similar gratitude to the commission, because i believe that the commission has really shown in recent years that it is capable of launching its own european initiatives in a very important sector and of implementing them internationally. we are dealing here with opponents - i do not want to say opponents, but rather partners at international level - who are very, very strong in this sector, above all, of course, the united states. it is increasingly important that we develop our own ideas about what future we want to give the internet as a whole. i would like to thank the commission - and i would also like to include the council - for the innovative approach it has taken to this sector. i would like to take up some points raised by my colleague malcolm harbour. this initiative is mainly concerned with what is to happen in the future in the field of research on the internet. i think it is important that we should look ahead to the future, beyond the commission's initiatives so far. my colleague malcolm harbour spoke about this. what does it take to anticipate the future of the internet? it is a very difficult terrain to navigate because forecasting the future is difficult not only in this sector but in many other sectors as well. but here we are dealing with an area that is changing very, very fast, that is driven on the one hand by regulation, but which also makes it increasingly necessary that we look ahead to what standardization will be necessary in the future. the question is also increasingly raised as to how this sector is perceived and understood by the general public and consumers as a whole. so it's becoming increasingly important that we actually build trust, so that on the one hand we don't just have technology that's fantastic, that we don't just have regulations that are smart and intelligent, that we don't just have standardization that actually anticipates the future, but that we also have a population and consumers who are willing and able to invest in this sector, not just in the sense of making phone calls, but also doing business on it in the future. we will have to invest much, much more in this sector than in the past. i would like to ask the commission to do more to build confidence. finally, i would like to ask the commission to bring together all the initiatives it has taken in the field of the internet into a single initiative, covering all sectors, and to come up with a coherent overall approach.
- mr president, i welcome the report in that i think it is important to develop new technologies. i think it's important, above all, to give as many people as possible the means to communicate freely with the people they want to communicate with, and to do so on their own terms. the keyword here is information self-determination. and that brings us to the biggest obstacle to this free web, to free communication. there has been a lot of talk about consumer confidence. however, i think that word alone is very telling. consumer trust is about creating trust so that consumers believe that their communications are safe. privacy is another term that means that communication is really secure. so i'd like to reiterate that i think privacy should be the real goal, in communication, to ensure that it's secure. there is one obstacle: the monitoring is being stepped up, including at european level. it is often argued that there are now new crimes via the internet or that previously known crimes are being dealt with via the internet. the measures taken against this are based on the belief that surveillance methods can curb these crimes - i do not believe that! secondly, the measures are usually only suitable to deter the most stupid criminals. this won't get us very far. because many people who engage in illegal digital activities will, of course, also know how to protect themselves from surveillance. articles 10 and 13 of the report deal with data protection. however, some of them are also restricted and only require data protection for economically and health-relevant data. i think privacy is important for all data. all people must have the opportunity to inform their own destiny. so i'm thinking, you know, we should cut down on surveillance, we should increase privacy.
- mr president, i have to go. the csu has voted in favour of the katiforis report in the final vote. i would point out, however, that we voted against paragraph 4. we agree with the report's objective in itself, which is to reduce budget deficits and perhaps even to achieve a surplus. this is contradicted by paragraph 4, which favours new debt even if it is taken under the stability and growth pact. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. just before the introduction of the euro, parliament should do everything it can to ensure that the euro remains stable and send out the appropriate signals.
madam president, if i understand you correctly, the spanish constitutional court has confirmed your view and decided that requests for waiver of immunity from the spanish supreme court, via the spanish government, should also be sent to you. there has been some controversy about whether this is necessarily what you advocated. in this context, may i add to the question put by mrs sauquillo: do you know whether the dossiers are on their way here now? were you informed that the file would be forwarded to you again? - yes or no? secondly, did i also understand you correctly when you said that you would refer the files to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs as soon as they were received? will you do so immediately or will you inform the house beforehand? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that would mean that we could expect the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to be dealt with only after the next plenary session. so i 'm going to ask you something very specific . as soon as the dossier is received, will you, independently of the plenary, forward the files to the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs, namely the files of the presumed suspect mr berlusconi and the files of the presumed suspect mr dell'utri?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the council's common position on the amendment of the directives laying down the basic rules for the performance of official controls on feedingstuffs and animal nutrition has now been tabled. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the crises and scandals of recent years have made it urgently necessary to review the rules in the feed sector. the amendment to the directive aims to harmonise and specify the way in which official controls on feedingstuffs are carried out in europe. the member states are now required to introduce appropriate emergency measures to combat serious risks associated with feedingstuffs. the commission is empowered to take temporary precautionary measures where products for animal nutrition produced in the eu present a serious risk to humans, animals or the environment. member states are obliged to inform the commission promptly and fully in the event of contamination. this ensures that the commission can intervene immediately. the member states are also required to draw up and send to the commission an annual report on all incidents and irregularities in the feed sector. the council accepted the european parliament's key demand for comprehensive control of feed, namely the use of a collective term covering all products intended for use in the food and feed chain up to the final consumer. they have been incorporated into the common position. this was in response to the intensive debate which had taken place within the european parliament. i should like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mrs paulsen, for her difficult task. however, the council could not bring itself to comply with parliament's request to extend the directive to include changes caused by errors and shortcomings in the drafting process. mrs paulsen has just pointed this out. the rapporteur therefore proposes the amendments from the first reading in the necessary slightly modified form described by her. the report was unanimously adopted by the environment committee. the adaptations made to the amendments were necessary to bring them more in line with the relevant articles of directive 1999/29/ec on undesirable substances and products in feedingstuffs. the corresponding article of the tse regulation on community controls was also adapted. the adoption of the directive would now create a uniform, clear and transparent control system adapted to the new requirements of the time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am here today on behalf of mr gargani, who is in italy for understandable reasons. we have attached a question to the commission and the council in this great debate on education policy - the council cannot be here today, unfortunately - because we believe that now that the world is suddenly talking about a european education area, the european parliament, which has always talked and fought for it, but which has always been blocked by the council of ministers, cannot simply stand by and watch as it, the elected representative of the citizens, is passed over for things that are very important but which we have long been encouraging. i think it was indecent - perhaps a little too much - not serious to ask parliament on 8 february for an opinion on the future objectives of the general vocational training systems, which was presented to the council exactly four weeks later. this can't go on! that is why we have initiated this debate and ask that we be seriously involved in the discussion in the future. we all agree that this report on general vocational training in the european union is a major step forward after the lisbon council, because it sets out concrete objectives and defines the future role of general vocational training. this is a problem which affects all european citizens. i repeat that this is something we have always said. as a reporter for socrates, i fought with my colleagues for this, but in the end it was unsuccessful. if success comes late, i'm grateful. but we must always be careful that this is not a policy area which can be implemented without the support of the member states. this is a matter which can only be dealt with under the subsidiarity principle. we can give examples, we can give a synopsis of what it looks like in one country or another. perhaps the member states can learn from each other. the wheel doesn't always have to be reinvented. but there is a lot more we cannot do in these areas. we would like to stress that the open method of coordination, which was launched by the lisbon european council and which was the basis for this report, must not lead to the role of the institutions provided for in the treaties being disregarded. we believe that the general considerations on the future role of general vocational training in the context of the open method of coordination must take account not only of the contributions of the member states but above all of those of the european parliament and the commission, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity. we reaffirm that the conclusions of the stockholm european council and the defined strategic objectives which have been formulated can form the basis of a work programme for the coming decade. but it costs money. i would remind you that it is not enough to say nice things, to make big closing statements and to ask the commission to do its job. in the end, we all stand there and say, i hear the words, but i lack the faith, because the money for all the things we want to get started is missing. so hopefully, the realization amongst government leaders that education is hugely important in the european union, much more important than some people still believe, will also lead to more money being spent on it. i would like to draw the attention of the commission and the council to our insistence that the european parliament be involved in the preparation of the follow-up report and all the resulting measures to be taken in the framework of the long-term work programme, in the spirit of interinstitutional cooperation between the council, parliament and the commission. i am sure the commissioner will do so. i only hope that this will be passed on to the council and that it will follow in mrs reding's footsteps. i hope that we will be able to work together on what is laid down in this programme of work.
the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of women against discrimination on grounds of sex. mr president, i think we must see that elearning is, above all, a new world, a new exploration, and that we must not stay on the established paths. the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities has again found that women are still largely excluded from the web. the internet and everything connected with the new economy is not yet the new world for women, as was also recently stated at a large international conference in hamburg. 18 countries contributed their experiences. there's a digital discrepancy. women are about one in four of the internet users compared to men. although access is improving, only about 20% of the new students are women compared with 80% of the men. the proportion of women starting up businesses on the internet is still very low. we therefore call for a new approach to be created specifically for women, for specific software to be developed for women, because the use is different and because there are still large skills gaps among women. if we are to follow the lisbon summit decisions and shape the knowledgebased society, we must pay particular attention to women. for example, in specific matters, coeducation must be abandoned. we need to find new ways of doing things. i think it's very important that we catch up with the americans. again, it shows that american women already have much higher levels of internet access. they've even outrun the men on occasion, so i think we have a good chance of intervening with our plan of action here. i therefore ask that special attention be paid to the development of a stronger and more specific participation of women in the formulation of the action plan.
commission. - mr president, if i understand you correctly, you are giving me the floor to answer the oral question. i'll answer the discussion of the reports later. i would like to thank mr gargani, who was represented by mrs doris pack today, for his oral question on the future concrete objectives of education and training systems. beyond the question of who received what and when, and what report was produced, mrs pack said something of paramount importance. she said that the european parliament was at the origin of all the struggles to make education something other than a regional and national element and to make the european dimension of education not only put on the agenda but also recognized in its beneficial effects. we are almost there, mrs pack, because there has been a sort of silent revolution since lisbon, a huge step forward. but even if we have made this enormous step forward, we must not forget that many structures, especially national structures, are still in the old days, which are not so old, because they are only a year or two old, and so we still have difficulties in achieving this balance between the conception of subsidiarity of another time and the conception of subsidiarity which can very well work with european interests. i am doing a bit of balancing work with your help, trying to go very far but being careful not to destroy the confidence of some who see with a bad eye, with a critical eye, possible encroachments on subsidiarity. that said, i would like to respond clearly to the request made by mr gargani. it is true that the lisbon european council asked the education council, not the commission, to undertake a general reflection on the concrete future objectives of education systems and to present a report to the european council in spring 2001. the commission was asked to take the council forward, even though the commission had not been specifically asked to do so. but in the end it was the commission that prepared the council's work. and perhaps it is because of these initial difficulties that parliament did not receive the documents in question in time to react. he got the documents afterwards, right afterwards. so we have learned from this situation that is nobody's fault, but is inherent in certain ways of doing things. that's why i think in the future we should work a little differently. and we know, ladies and gentlemen, the deadlines. the heads of state and government took decisions at the european summit in stockholm on 23 and 24 march 2001, on the basis of the text adopted by the education council on 12 february 2001. it will be a continuation of the work, i.e. nothing new will be incorporated into the structure. there will be something new in the texts, i hope, but not in the structure, because there will now be a sequel. the education council will prepare the summits each time. the next education council on 29 november 2001 will already be preparing the barcelona summit. under the spanish presidency, there will therefore be a new meeting of the education council shortly before the barcelona summit. i would therefore like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. you know very well that i have tried to inform and involve parliament in the discussions on the follow-up to this report and i can say very clearly that i will be attentive to any reflections that the european parliament may wish to share with me during the course of this year, hence my insistence on requesting parliament's initiatives in this area and, believe me, at every council i repeat to the ministers the importance of the elected representatives of the people in this area. i hope that the cooperation based on the continuation of the reports which are now coming will be in such a way that the contribution of the european parliament can be fully taken into account.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to make four comments. first of all, i should like to say that the ambitious goal which socrates has been pursuing for years, namely the creation of a european educational area, has now become almost a reality - i hope, even in the texts! the council, the councils of feira, lisbon and stockholm, and also nice, have emphasized the importance and role of education and training in society and for the knowledge society. i would like to emphasize that education and training are today, firstly, the main political priorities in the european union, and secondly, a political challenge and an economic challenge, because we all know that without education and training we cannot offer training places to young people. thirdly, they represent an opportunity to develop europe's linguistic and cultural heritage and to give it a european added value. the second point i would like to make is that the commission and the council really seem to be maximalists on the one hand and minimalists on the other. maximalists in the strategies and political ambitions they develop, in the policies they put into practice. on the other hand, the european union, and above all the council, is a very minimalist when it comes to actually providing these big projects with financial resources. the commission, parliament or anyone else is always criticized, but never the gentlemen who proclaim in all their glory and splendor to the great councils how important education is, how important education is! if they would give the money the next day, we would all be very grateful, but above all our citizens! the european union has always been stingy with its education budgets. i would remind all my colleagues of the terrible conciliation committee marathon, when it was a question of asking for a little more than we asked for socrates. i hope that when the socrates programme is revised, which will probably take place within the next two years, a little more money will also be available for socrates. i am glad, and parliament can be glad, that there is now an initiative on e-learning. the parliament, represented by the committee on budgets - we have heard it, mr costa neves has said it - demands that this should not be to the detriment of any existing programme. these programs have a purpose! and they are financially equipped for this and nothing else! i think that if we say that e-learning is important, and we emphasize that, then there must also be a programme that is properly funded. we don't need a double in that department. thirdly, i regret and deplore the fact that we have not been sufficiently involved in the general affairs - as i said earlier on behalf of mr gargani. we must be really responsible for the concrete objectives of the system, we must help to achieve them and interinstitutional cooperation must be guaranteed. i think i reflect on what you said, commissioner, you understood it that way and you will incorporate it in the future. and my fourth point is this: in view of the enlargement debate and the next intergovernmental conference, we need real visibility of our tasks in this european union, we need a european education area that is made visible to the citizen. that is why the citizens themselves must have access to them, and why the citizens, through their representatives, must be able to take part in these programmes at all times. we need directives, we need ambitious targets, we need measures, we need action programmes, which of course also have the means to do so, and if we do all this in the field of education, then we will no longer need so many information campaigns by the commission and parliament, and we will have reached the citizen where he is. i hope we can go this way together!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the first of january 2002 marks the beginning of a new historic stage in the history of european integration. twelve sovereign states will exchange their national currencies for a common european currency. the citizens of these 12 member states will henceforth use the same banknotes and coins. it seems appropriate to give a name to this new stage of integration of national economies, characterized by a common market and a common currency, which is probably unique in economic history. we propose to use the term 'european home market' as a synonym for the euro country or the euro zone. the european home market already has a single monetary policy. since the accession to the european economic and monetary union on 1 january 1999, it has been in the hands of the european central bank. the challenge today is to formulate common economic policies appropriate to the european home market. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has proposed, by a large majority, that these economic policies should be based on the principles of the social market economy. the main instrument for the coordination of economic policies at european level is the treaty procedure for the establishment of broad economic policy guidelines. the european parliament has so far played only a minor role in this procedure. i therefore believe that it is urgently necessary to provide for greater involvement of the european parliament in the future. another weakness of the procedure is its lack of flexibility. the recommendations are based on forecasts of economic developments. however, if economic data differ from the forecasts during the implementation period, the recommendations lose their value.therefore, it is necessary to create a margin of manoeuvre in the member states to react quickly to short-term changes in economic data. the guidelines are not legally binding. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. it is true that it is in the interest of all to correct any wrong developments. however, there should be a certain margin of discretion here too. i believe that when assessing the economic policy of a member state, it is necessary to take account of the extent to which developments in that country have an impact on the euro area as a whole. economic growth in the european union will be much lower this year than in 2000. the commission has now reduced its forecast from 3% to 2.8%. in other areas, even lower growth rates are expected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in the face of the weakening world economy, i believe it is crucial that the european union should reflect on its own strengths. the extent to which we are affected by the gloomy climate of the world economy depends largely on ourselves. the european union is taking on a growing responsibility for the world economy, which we must meet, particularly in the light of developments in the united states and japan. what is the situation in the european union? as regards inflation, the rate of price increase is now, according to current forecasts, above 2% for two consecutive years, and thus above the value defined by the european central bank itself as price stability. however, external factors such as the rise in oil prices play an important role in this development. in this difficult environment, the european central bank is doing an excellent job. however, it must continue to do everything in its power to ensure that the trust placed in it is not misplaced. we therefore welcome their policy of the quiet hand and encourage them to continue this policy. i would like to ask whether the interest rate cut last week fits into this framework. in the area of budgetary policy, member states achieved on average last year the balanced budgets required by the stability and growth pact. however, this was against the background of umts revenues, low interest rates and increased tax revenues due to increased economic growth. this favourable environment has not been sufficiently exploited by some member states to reduce their budget deficits and debt levels. however, given the ageing of the european population and the expected burdens on pension systems, it is crucial to provide sufficient financial room for manoeuvre. the potential for spending cuts in all areas must be fully exploited. the role of public investment is not called into question. however, they must be targeted and based on strategic objectives and must not displace priority private investment. the reflection on the strengths of the community also includes the continuation of structural reforms of the capital products and labour markets of the member states. the stockholm summit failed to agree on concrete dates for the liberalisation of the european electricity and gas markets. i'm very sorry about that. but we should do everything we can to achieve liberalisation in the sectors still outstanding. this is a key prerequisite for achieving the objective of making the european union the most competitive and dynamic economic area in the world by 2010. at the same time, the completion of the internal market must be pushed further. i would like to mention only two important examples: firstly, we must finally reach agreement on the community patent. secondly, in the field of defence, community rules on public procurement should be applied wherever justified. (applause from the centre) the european union is taking steps to develop a common defence policy, and at a time when this is particularly so, the isolation of national defence markets is inefficient, anachronistic and simply too expensive. the introduction of the euro on 1 january will affect all citizens living in the european home market. if we want it to work for the benefit of the citizens, we need economic policy based on the principles of the social market economy. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on employment and social affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mr von wogau, i can only underline your last sentence. however, i do not think your report is as balanced as you have presented it. first of all, on behalf of my committee, i would like to criticise the lack of cooperation we have had in order to hold a proper parliamentary debate and to draw up an opinion. mr von wogau, the acceptance of the euro and european economic policy by the population does not depend solely on a new word, a 'home market' or something similar. it takes a little more than that. this is also mentioned in the opinion of the employment committee, which was adopted by a large majority. i would like to give some examples of the necessary interactions and the necessary evidence of trust. of course we need stability, but - and you know this - we also need more investment in education and science. we are calling for an increase in the employment rate of the population, especially women, but we are not providing enough childcare facilities everywhere. of course, we can see with our naked eyes the demographic developments in all 15 member states and now also in the candidate countries. but the expansion of health care and old age provision leaves much to be desired. growth alone, as our committee has made clear, is not a guarantee of quality jobs. all this is part of the process of ensuring acceptance by the population and the workers. i am glad that at least some member states - and i think this has also been underestimated in the commission and its economic committee - are on the way to improving and strengthening the necessary participation of workers in economic life, as in france and germany, for example, with the draft laws presented. it is also interesting that a number of member states have already responded to the proposals of the parliament and the commission that we have been making for some time, not just today, for example that the skills opportunities for older workers should now finally be realised instead of, as in previous years, being pushed relatively out of the labour market by legal possibilities. finally, i would like to point out that the hesitant implementation of the lisbon strategy at council level is being strongly criticised by our committee. we need, of course, to ensure that economic policy is consistent with the employment guidelines and the social agenda. i thank my colleagues on the committee for having made the unusual procedure of consultation so flexible and constructive.
, chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. mr president, i too believe that a social market economy which is environmentally friendly is a good concept for economic policy in the european union, if it does what the lisbon process has set in motion, namely linking economic, employment, social and financial policies, so that a viable concept can actually be developed and a balanced and appropriate policy mix can finally be implemented in the european union. the commission's proposals are not only a means of improving the situation in the community, but also a means of ensuring that the community's economic and social cohesion is not undermined by the failure of the member states to achieve the objectives of the single act. i believe that a new debate on the quality of public finances in all the member states, as the commission has thankfully initiated, can help us to move more quickly towards investment-led growth that creates jobs. that is also necessary. i believe that the main lines of economic policy must be more investment-led growth and the mobilisation of human resources to increase employability. we are seeing a certain pessimism in the european union at the moment. i do not think there is a threat of a sustained downturn; but everything must be done to prevent the developments in the united states from becoming a risk to the european economy, which is out of control for the european union. i would like to emphasize that the broad lines of economic policy, our economic policy orientations, apply not only to the euro zone but to the entire european single market, the european home market for the european union, and that is how it should remain, because we do not want to be divided but rather to continue to grow together. but europe should not, through a lack of initiative, fall back into a cyclical slump which destroys what we have achieved, namely the lowest unemployment in ten years. i would therefore like to stress once again that we are under-investing in development and research compared with other regions of the world, we are under-investing in education and training, and there is still a need to catch up with the infrastructure investments that this parliament has so often spoken of and called for. we need not only monetary stability and fiscal solidity but also innovative ways of achieving social and employment stability. that is what the lisbon process demands! i regret that there have not been more incidents during the swedish presidency. i also regret that we no longer have transparency and democracy. the european parliament's involvement in the macroeconomic dialogue, in the elaboration and adoption of the broad economic policy guidelines, as well as in the preparation of the other processes linked to lisbon and stockholm, is essential. if necessary, we must use the new intergovernmental conference in 2004 to make our demands more explicit.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. i have been asked many times in recent months: why do we need a directive? is this the result of a workaholic eu official or a lone member of parliament who wants a directive here, or is it not the purchasing activity of the population in europe which has shown an extraordinary commitment to the purchase of electronic devices in recent years? that's exactly why! we have six million tonnes of electronic waste in europe every year. the rate of increase is over 3 to 4%, i believe it is now even 5%. we expect to see a doubling of the amount of electronic waste in about ten years. the electronic waste is haunting europe, in fields, meadows, forests, ditches and everywhere. it is not only an environmental factor, but also a resource factor, because we all know that computers contain valuable components which should be collected and fed at a regular rate of reuse and recycling. i therefore believe that it is right that this directive should be published. this is particularly important because we have already taken the first steps on the altauto regulation, which differs from the electronic waste regulation in that we have hundreds of thousands of companies involved in the electronic waste regulation. in contrast, the altautoverordnung only has 50 or 60 companies involved. that is why it is very important that we find a common consensus on this directive in this house and also with the commission, because this directive has an impact. and if it has an impact, it must also have a controlling effect. environmental policy cannot be an end in itself, it must have an objective. a goal for the environment, but also for business, because business is part of this society, which is sometimes forgotten in my committee. we work in several categories, because we have, not least, ten different material streams, which have different levels of recycling rates that have to be reached. but first let me say something about the points on which the committee has followed my lead, for example on the question of the entry into force of this directive, which is not due to take place until 2005 or 2006. my children would ask me why i am going to brussels if my results are not available until 2006 or whenever. we have said that after 30 months, when the parliamentary process is over, the member states must put their words into practice and implement this directive. companies should be operating under this directive 30 months later. i think that is a correct point, and i assume that the commission will follow it. the commission was a little weak on the question of the target: how many kilograms do we want to collect per year? we are basically calling for a ban on disposal. some participants in this discussion, particularly industry, argue that this is a crazy proposal. i'm saying the exact opposite. we have to make it illegal to throw a razor in the garbage can, because that's not where it belongs. although this is very common, many have not yet grasped it. the law of falling unit costs also prohibits us from having any vague quantities in the future. we need to concentrate them to reduce the cost of recycling. that is why we have introduced a ban on disposal and a binding quota of six kilos per head per year, rather than a non-binding quota as proposed by the commission. i think this is a real step in the right direction. we also developed a preference for trade. we all agree that when a retailer sells a product, it must also take it back. but we also know - at least those of us who have worked in a city parliament - that our trade is very tightly confined to the cities and does not have the capacity to build a small, possibly still blast-proof hall to store old tv sets. we propose that the end user can return his device at no cost. but the device doesn't have to automatically land at the trade. the retailers are responsible, but the consumer can also go directly to the general collection point. i think this is a good alternative to protect trade, because if we put a lot of construction on it, it will go green very quickly. but that is precisely where we do not want it to go, because we want to keep our cities attractive. this is an important point which is unfortunately all too often overlooked. we believe that, like the entry into force of the directive, manufacturers' liability should not start five years later, but thirty months after the entry into force of the directive, in conjunction with a voluntary cost allocation for historical equipment. the experts know what historical equipment is: these are devices which are already in circulation, some of them orphaned, and we do not know where they come from, whether the companies are bankrupt or whether some large companies have put them on the market just before christmas to make life difficult for small and mediumsized enterprises. ladies and gentlemen, these historic devices must be collectively funded. it's the only way. anyone who thinks that historical equipment can be financed individually is dreaming. i think it makes sense, however, to provide individual funding for new equipment. of course, there may be exceptions in some areas where this is not possible. but i want to reward those who put in the effort and develop a product that can be recycled ecologically. these are the controls we have. so it's not about punishment, it's about reward. i would also like to make a request to the council sitting before me. i would ask you to take up this idea and to advocate in the council for a preference for individual financing. there are of course some points which my friends in the committee have not accepted or against which i am opposed. i think the committee has gone too far with the recycling rate. madam president, it is an easy game in parliament to raise a quota from 40% to 50%. it's about the easiest thing there is. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in the same way as the waste. the commission's proposals for entry quotas are therefore very reasonable. i think we should keep the commission's quota and not use the excessive quotas which we have given a majority in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. there's a dispute over the lighting fixtures. the main stakeholder is talking to other stakeholders about it. i believe that lighting fixtures should be part of this directive, but should not be given quotas. because there is not a single document on how to recycle and then, above all, recycle chopped and crushed lamps. i do not want to initiate a policy whose implications i do not know. after three years of experience, we should give the lighting fixtures a quota. the commission has put forward a good proposal in my view. we shall be happy to follow that proposal. one point of contention in this house is the question of when the producer must bear the costs. the commission has proposed, and the council agrees, that the manufacturer should take back his products from the collection point and bear the costs. i support this initiative. i also support it because there are some colleagues who believe that in the near future companies will have to pick up their toothbrushes in the bathroom. i have three children, and my children have a moral responsibility to take a device, a computer, a radio, or whatever, when it's finished, to a certain place and dispose of it properly. i do not think we can have a policy where it is always someone else who is responsible, but never ourselves. the end consumer should be able to return the device to his dealer free of charge, even if he purchases it new. but he also has a responsibility, if only to dispose of it. he's got to get it downtown. i'll stick with it. you might call that conservative. i think there's a certain educational aspect to this. i remember that we had a passionate discussion in this house about the throwaway mentality. those who shouted loudest back then are all gone, or they come and go now. the disposable mentality is an important factor, but it must also play a role in financing. we have heard a lot of interesting proposals in this area. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is a heterogeneous committee. but it makes a valuable contribution to ensuring that this parliament, which is not a 'normal' parliament, plays an ever greater and more important role than a 'normal' parliament. i would like to thank all my colleagues and all those involved for this. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to join in the thanks to karl-heinz florenz. he has given a very good report. our efforts are aimed at the environmentally friendly disposal of old electrical equipment and, where possible, the recycling of materials. the polluter pays principle is very important to parliament and this report expresses this very clearly. i believe, however, - and the florence report sets the right course here too - that we must always look very carefully at how these principles can be implemented in the various areas. the collection of equipment or small parts also consumes energy and can cause environmental damage. that is why it is important that we make an exception for small parts which do not contain hazardous substances, such as light bulbs, that we always look at the overall ecological balance and then see whether it makes sense to carry out separate collection and recycling or whether it is perhaps not environmentally acceptable. that is why i believe that amendment no 65 is going in the right direction. we must apply the polluter pays principle properly. i see a problem here and there, because, particularly in the case of historical waste, it is not a polluter principle to say that all those who are now active on the market must pay for the costs of those who produced something perhaps twenty years ago. we must be careful because not all areas are transparent. the committee heard about it. i have taken particular care to illustrate this problem with the residential lighting because it is produced in large numbers in my constituency. the producers are right to say that it is not a polluter's principle if a chandelier that is hung in the living room and was made twenty years ago by some company that is no longer on the market today has to be paid by those who are on the market now. this is not a polluter's principle, it is the opposite! if we consider that many of these grey imports come from companies which do not comply with the high environmental standards in europe, for example in china, then the polluter principle is turned on its head if we punish companies which are doing a sensible job here for doing so and for registering. that is why i ask for support for amendments nos 65 and 88.
mr president, commissioner, i think that in addition to the many topics we have discussed, we should look at two or three other aspects - which mr florenz has already mentioned - but in greater detail. firstly, i believe that the directive is not just about making products recyclable and introducing recycling quotas. the consumer and consumer responsibility aspects also need to be given greater attention, because consumer behaviour is not yet so established in the field of electronics and electronic waste that they turn to authorised recyclers and dispose of the parts. the automobile is something else. this is going to the recycler. this is not necessarily the case with the electric toothbrush or the electric shaver. i think we need to step up our efforts here. i also think it is right that the member states should make clear the responsibility of the consumer for the separate collection of this scrap, up to the possibility of sanctions. the second point to consider is that we are doing something completely new here. this legislation will lead to waste streams, material streams that have never existed before. so we don't know how it's processed, what kind of material flows are developed, and what happens to them. amendment no 56 is only a small request. it is a matter of monitoring, not only to see what is being set in quotas and what is to be achieved, but also to know exactly what is happening and what the consequences are of what we have proposed here in the form of legislation in real life. we should therefore look at the development carefully and, after a certain period of time, take stock and decide whether the material flows that have developed there really correspond to our objectives.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission proposal is based on the council's common position on a water framework directive. the common position did not provide for the identification of priority hazardous substances or for the gradual elimination of pollution of waters by dangerous substances. we must emphasize once again: it is parliament's task to ensure that the ospar strategy is integrated. parliament has insisted that this should be a central point of the conciliation procedure. the objective is to gradually eliminate pollution of water by continuously reducing discharges, emissions and releases of priority hazardous substances with the aim of their complete elimination within 20 years. the water directive requires that the identification meet two criteria. the first is to take account of their inherent characteristics and the second is to use existing lists such as international, un, ospar, etc. of the 32 substances identified as priority, the proposal envisages that 11 will be classified as priority hazardous substances, another 11 as priority substances under review and the remaining 10 as regular priority substances. the committee on the environment proposes that the commission should include these 11 substances in the under review list as early as next year. the committee on the environment therefore wants to avoid the commission postponing the decision on whether these 11 substances are priority hazardous or only priority until 2004, when the list of priority substances is to be revised in accordance with article 16 of the water framework directive. the committee on the environment also wants to ensure that article 16 is implemented and that this decision is not put on hold because of industrial or other interests in the classification of substances on the under review list. i think it will be very important for us as the european parliament to put the appropriate pressure on the commission. we must always bear in mind that this report is only a preparatory report and that the water framework directive provides for 20 years to achieve the environmental objectives in the field of water protection. the committee on the environment also wants to have the commps procedure changed. it is to be continuously developed and improved. it is not intended to be limited to certain substances in future. for example, only substances for which data from community monitoring programmes were not available at community level have been used so far. this applies to 60% of pesticides available today, for example. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. many gaps are currently due to the lack of data in the chemicals policy. if we are to successfully protect water against dangerous chemicals, we also need to change our chemicals policy. the commission has now taken steps to do so. so you see, we are trying to reach a mutually agreeable solution with the council and the commission. the main focus of this discussion will be on the classification of the substances included in the under review list. the committee wants to achieve this classification as soon as possible, as i have already said. the commission and the council see a problem of feasibility. i have therefore tried once again as rapporteur to provide a solution in amendment no 27. the proposal is that the measures should not be jeopardised by this under review list which the commission is introducing. that is, i think, our common objective. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. in view of the discussions which have taken place between the council, the commission and parliament, i hope that we have now reached a good compromise which will allow a conclusion at first reading. it is therefore up to the council and the commission to decide whether they accept the vote of parliament so that we can get started here as soon as possible and take real action to protect water.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. our work today is to give substance to the water framework directive, which came into force in december 2000, in its annex x with 32 substances. the epp group agrees with the commission proposal. all the amendments supported by our group help to bring the text into line with the water framework directive. the rapid adoption of this list is a priority for our group, because only then can the commission begin its actual work and draw up proposals for the treatment of each of these 32 substances. this may mean a ban, called phasing-out, or the continued use of the product under certain conditions. the aim is always to avoid these substances entering the water in the future, if possible, or to keep them in low concentrations. the term water covers everything from groundwater and surface water, rivers and lakes, down to the smallest stream, perhaps the smallest puddle, and of course the sea. it is clear that this will require very different regulations. finally, we are not starting from scratch in europe, because many of these 32 substances are already being examined under the phytosanitary directive, the biocides directive and the directive on waste chemicals. we will also have to review everything again when the whole of the european union's chemicals legislation is being re-orientated. we must therefore be very careful not to duplicate work and thus avoid unnecessary costs. we can put that money to better use for the environment. the aim here is to clarify the effects of these substances on the waters. we have heard that the swedish presidency is interested in a speedy resolution. we want to support them in that too. we do not want our group to fail. if you are serious about protecting europe's water resources, you should consider this too. mrs breyer has already stressed what i would like to emphasize again, namely that parliament has achieved a great success in the development of the water framework directive, the fruits of which we are already reaping today. of the 32 substances, 11 are classified as particularly dangerous and their discharge into water will be stopped in the foreseeable future. i would also like to thank the commission for its careful work and for the comprehensive information which has been very helpful to me as shadow rapporteur. i would also like to thank our rapporteur, mrs breyer, for her efforts.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, when your proposal was put forward, i thought that this was the implementation of the water framework directive, article 16, definition of 'priority hazardous substances'. we are doing this as quickly as possible so that we can get started with the implementation as soon as possible. however, when i looked at the proposal more closely, i found that there was a third category, not only 'priority hazardous substances' and 'dangerous substances', but also the 'three-star' category. the commission apparently has evidence that they may be a priority hazard, but is not sure whether they should be counted as such. commissioner, it is not in line with the water framework directive that we are introducing a 'three-star' category. i think that we must insist that this category of 'three stars' be abolished as soon as possible. either these are priority hazardous substances, then they should also be phased out, or they should not. we cannot accept such a 'three stars' category. these are substances for which there is really evidence, for example lead and its compounds, or some herbicides and pesticides. the commission has evidently some evidence, madam commissioner, that they may be among the priority hazardous substances. so the commission must dissolve this 'three stars' category as soon as possible. that is why i think this has to happen before the normal review deadline. whether this has to be done by 1 july 2002, as we have decided in the decision of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, or whether the commission has to submit a supplementary proposal as soon as possible, that is a matter for the moment. but for this "three stars" category, something has to happen faster. i therefore ask you, madam commissioner, in a very specific way: can you guarantee that a final decision on this 'three-star' category will be submitted to the commission as soon as possible, while you are still in office, and that the council and parliament will be able to confirm this in the end by means of legislation?
- mr president, i have to go. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has acted quickly in this respect. and i would also like to thank mr adams; i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i would also like to thank the committee on the environment. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. given the far-reaching economic and legal implications for agriculture, but also for all other economic sectors, the commission should therefore design the necessary process for the selection of these priority hazardous substances in a way that is based on scientific facts. it is essential that we do not act on suspicion but on a clear scientific basis. the water framework directive now gives us a timeframe until 2004. now we have great agreement here throughout the eu. we don't need emotions now. the zero-emission target cannot be a goal. we need clarity on a sound scientific basis to be able to act accordingly. water, ladies and gentlemen, is one of our most important and sensitive assets. let us not forget that!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would like to ask for a separate vote on amendment no 44, because the first part of amendment no 44 is a compromise and the second part is an individual decision. i therefore ask for a split vote between the first and second motions.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, i would like to tell mr liepitz that i still hold the view expressed in these two parts. however, i am not sure that last week's interest rate cut fits into this policy. i would like to express my personal doubts.
in writing. - (de) i cannot support this joint draft directive. article 3 lays down the limit values for cigarettes. as these limit values are to apply to all cigarettes manufactured in the eu, products intended for export will also have to comply with them from 1 january 2007 at the latest. this directive has exceeded its purpose. products made for export should not be subject to such eu regulation. in the state of rhineland-palatinate alone, the tobacco industry has an annual turnover of some dem 1.5 billion. in the largest city in my area, 1,250 people are directly employed by a tobacco company. the subcontracting companies in the region, such as printing and packaging companies, are all small and medium-sized enterprises. if the directive is to come into force and the limit values also apply to cigarettes for export, thousands of jobs will be lost in this structurally backward region alone. the tobacco industry is subject to the obligation to provide information and report, but products intended for export and with higher levels to meet the requirements of the country of destination must still be able to be exported. the serious obstacles to exports resulting from the new directive will seriously damage the european economy.
in writing. - (de) i voted against the conciliation result on the tobacco directive for the following reasons: the conciliation agreement provides that the export to third countries of cigarettes containing more than 10 milligrams of tar, 1 milligram of nicotine and 10 milligrams of carbon monoxide should be prohibited. the consequence would be a massive collapse in european cigarette exports and the consequent loss of over 10 000 jobs in the eu. such a ban is not good for anyone. the manufacture of cigarettes will take place outside the eu, but will result in job losses in our country. the eu has absolutely no power to impose such a ban, because it is not the internal market. tobacco-opponents must not equate tobacco exports with potassium cyanide emissions. the eu's attitude is contradictory in that it is also providing €1 billion in subsidies for tobacco cultivation and export. with this export ban, the eu is making itself the world's health advocate. in the face of the customs and traditions of other countries, this attitude is presumptuous. it would be better to intensify the work already begun in the world health organization with a view to establishing uniform global standards for tobacco products. unilateral eu action will have no effect.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data-processing techniques. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the relationship between young people and alcohol is not a problem which has existed only since yesterday. alcohol is part of the social life of adults. thus, it is only natural that adolescents should be exposed to alcohol as they grow into adulthood. children and adolescents are usually unaware of the dangers of excessive drinking. curiosity can quickly become a habit. the age of entry into employment for children and young people has not decreased. young europeans are still exposed to alcohol at about the same age as in the past, namely in their early teens. regular drinking, however, is starting earlier and earlier. the issue of alcohol consumption by children and young people is extremely sensitive, since they are the rising generations of european citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i should also like to take this opportunity to thank all the members for their contributions. we were of the opinion that in this area the responsibility cannot be placed solely on the parents, but that the framework must be created to help the young people to learn everything necessary for dealing with alcohol. i would therefore like to emphasize once again that my opinion is specifically concerned with the area of children and young people and their use of alcohol and does not deal with the health consequences of alcohol abuse in general. in february this year - the rapporteur has already dealt with this - a conference on youth and alcohol was held. in the declaration adopted at that time, one of the points i considered to be the most important, and which i also took into account in my opinion, was the need to ensure that young people are more involved in these programmes and measures. in particular, actions by young people for young people should be supported and promoted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the children and young people concerned are not excluded from the decision-making process. this is the only way to get young people involved. we are not helping young people to become mature citizens by simply imposing prohibitions and regulations. quite the opposite. the only way to do that is to teach them to take responsibility for themselves. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i should like to thank the commission for tackling the increasingly sensitive issue of alcohol abuse among children and young people. i would also like to say that the commission has produced a good proposal for a recommendation to the council. the health and well-being of our children and young people is of paramount importance to us all. mrs stihler and mrs sabine zissener have also pointed out the nature of the problem in europe. for adults in the european union, alcohol consumption is often a common but by no means universal part of social life. but youths are shaped by the drinking habits of the society they are absorbing. alcohol consumption is therefore often considered part of adulthood. the drinking habits of youths are largely reflective of the attitudes and habits of the adult world. so role models are needed. the key is to have a good and reasonable use of the intoxicating drink, which should be practiced in the family and by society as a whole. the tendency to abuse must be combated early on. this must be countered by targeted education campaigns. the consequences of abuse affect all of us. they meet the families and the society. i would like to give just a few examples: drunk driving, loss of jobs and, ultimately, the breakdown of families. at national level, there are already many sensible laws to protect children and young people, such as a ban on serving alcohol to minors. improved implementation of existing arrangements at national level must be ensured. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the labelling of products is not restricted to the use of warnings, such as a comparison between a glass of brandy and three glasses of beer, as i understand mrs stihler's amendment. such comparisons can be confusing or even give the impression that a certain type of alcoholic beverage is allowed to be consumed in larger quantities. this comparison cannot tell you anything about the actual effect and tolerability in individual persons. it might be more likely to misjudge oneself. this would be less an enlightenment than a disquiet, or even a misrepresentation, of the consumer. producers and distributors of alcoholic beverages are heavily involved in supporting sports and cultural clubs and their events. a ban on sponsorship of youth events would mean that the associations would also end up short of money. why should a brewery that sponsors the senior team's sporting event not also provide its tent for a youth event? whether a sponsorship ban would really be an educational success is open to debate. the clubs will withdraw from the more expensive youth events, and the young people will ultimately suffer. alcohol, tobacco and drugs are different things. they also require a different treatment. i hope that we will do this every day and that we will work on the individual issues. i would ask that these three very important subjects not be mixed up in this report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the limitation of eligible bulls to 90 animals per holding, a point in their seven-point programme, is not a suitable solution to adjust european union beef production to demand. it is not disputed that the decline in beef consumption has made it impossible to continue beef production at the usual level. but this cannot be done unilaterally, mr commissioner, to the detriment of individual regions. if we want to talk about premium rights again, it cannot be done by means of an absolute limitation, as proposed by the commission, but a solution which is reasonable for the farmer must be found. mr sturdy has already pointed this out. this solution can only be seen in conjunction with the existing green area or, what might even be better, in relation to the working time spent, i.e. the number of normative employees. we had this discussion, by the way, if you remember, when we were discussing agenda 2000 in the context of the beef market regulation. but if you, mr fischler, in a reply to the chairman of the committee on agriculture, wrote - and i quote: 'there was only one deviation from the 1990s to the bull system in the new länder of the federal republic of germany, and the elimination of the bull system is now likely to lead to structural change there too' - then you are ignoring the fact that in these regions alone the number of people employed in agriculture has fallen from 800 000 to 115 000 in the last ten years. that, commissioner, is structural change enough! or do you want to solve the problem of beef in the eu, sarcastically, at the expense of these new countries in eastern germany, which would inevitably lead to the closure of these farms? why is it that the premiums cannot be more strictly limited in terms of stocking density per feeding area? they're planning to cut it from 2.0 to 1.8. but i want something different that would make the 1990s premium cap obsolete. imagine if it were left to the farmer's discretion how much he reduces his cattle herd to a maximum eligible threshold per hectare of forage area. however, this would require that the farmer be granted an additional compensation corresponding to the reduction. this could be called a beef cull, analogous to the fruit and vegetable sector. we are also giving a cessation premium for non-production, and to a considerable extent. if this leads to a reduction in the beef sector, we should also reward those farms which reduce their stock in this natural way, rather than producing surpluses which would then go unmarketed and possibly even have to be disposed of. commissioner, perhaps you could make friends with this idea. it doesn't have to be the same!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already cut some points from your plan for the crisis in the beef sector. the slaughter programme was implemented administratively. we have dealt with the kleegras here in the emergency procedure. so let's focus on what's left to discuss. i would refer in particular to the limit of 90 animals. it should be made clear that this limit still applies in europe, but it is not mandatory. that was the fall of berlin. it would have been better if we had been followed in parliament at the time, when we proposed that there should be an additional possibility of crediting work in the staggering of premiums. this has now been taken up again. the other group spokesmen have also made this clear. i hope that the commission will adopt this proposal so that we can give the farms that work with higher numbers of animals a chance to at least modify this limit of 90 animals. this could also give farms that use livestock in larger farms and use additional labour the opportunity to recover their costs. i think we would have de-emphasized that boundary and found a reasonable social factor. i hope the house will vote the same way tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. agenda 2000 sets out the key data for the eu's agricultural, structural and financial policies for the period 2000-06. the aim was to achieve a decoupling of product sectors from market income policy, but this was to be done under the guise of a rather straightforward structural change in order to keep the loss of income and jobs within the necessary limits. the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease and bse has led to a collapse in the beef markets, with no prospect of rapid recovery. the farmers are now counting on the additional special funds being made available and not getting bogged down in the long road of bureaucracy. the promises made in the first few weeks about the special purchasing arrangements must be fulfilled for the time being. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. the present proposal to amend the market organization for beef and veal meets in substance the commission's concerns about reducing supply overhangs. some of the proposals have nothing to do with the consequences of bse and foot-and-mouth disease. the quality of the products is not necessarily related to the size of the farm or the type of farming. at present, market trends do not favour investments in beef production. therefore, any form of capping of a condition of aid is also an unjustified increase in the cost of investments already made. the farmers are counting on this revenue, and the limit of 90 animals will certainly not be feasible.
the commission has already done so. i think bse and mcs have been somewhat out of the news these days - thank god - for good reason. i believe that this is simply the best way of restoring consumer confidence. i would like to ask you, mr fischler, to accept the amendments in the sturdy report, because i think that referral back after the vote will only lead to delays. i could not explain this to my farmers, nor to the consumers, nor to the voters. what are we really asking for? we ask that the rules of the game not be changed in the middle of the game. the rules of the game were set in berlin. we are calling for the reintroduction of a limit of 90 animals. i think that we really have to insist on this from the most diverse regions at the present time. the plan to reduce the stocking density factor to 1.8 livestock units per hectare from 1 january 2002 - i must tell you quite frankly - is something i cannot explain to the farmers in my region. another lesson we must understand is that there is a constant reference to alternative production. organic farms, in my view, are a good thing, but they are not a panacea, because we are already seeing that there is also limited purchasing power, limited markets. i think that the amendments - i do not want to repeat them all, there is simply not enough time - could be accepted from my point of view and perhaps from your point of view as well. and last but not least, we should simply say in this whole area that we have to produce security, security cannot be controlled. it is the only way to restore stability to the beef market.
(de) madam president, mr prodi, i would like to thank you for your reply. does the commissioner think that there should be a systematic examination of the budget lines of the european union to see which of them actually allow us to achieve sustainable development? could we use the best practice method to check which budget lines are actually promoting sustainable development? perhaps we could also benchmark this to follow the development of the budget lines. do you think that the best practice approach can achieve optimal results?
(sv) madam president, mr president of the commission, this is a day that i, as the rapporteur of the european parliament on sustainable development, have been waiting for for a long time. i am pleasantly surprised to hear the president of the commission speak both of political leadership, which is one of the most important elements for me, and of the local plan. if we mobilize both levels, we'll have made a leap forward. the planetary level has also been mentioned, and i think it is wise to remember that too. i would like to clarify something. what does this mean for the union's activities, in the way we trade, invest and so on? finally, should it be seen as a general tool for all the union's activities, or how should the sustainability strategy be interpreted?
- (de) madam president, mr president, when we talk about sustainability and the ambitious objectives you are proposing, we are in fact in a vicious circle. market forces, with their spontaneity, and deregulation, with its effects, are diametrically opposed to its ambitious objectives. i have two questions for you. the first is this: under these circumstances, what levers do you really intend to move? one of his predecessors, president delors, took a broad approach to the question of the transition from road to rail transport. if you look at the situation today, you will see that it has remained virtually unchanged and has actually got worse. we talk about alternative energy but solar and wind energy receive a paltry amount of support. the energy companies don't want to allow these kinds of projects to go ahead. the second question: how should the debate with the citizens be framed? what do we want to talk about? data and facts, or even how citizens can be involved and participate more actively? what information do you intend to give us, the members of parliament?
the commission has already done so. when it comes to sustainability and your ambitious goals, we are in a vicious circle. the market forces with their spontaneity and deregulation with their effects are very much against your very ambitious objectives. i have two questions. first, what leverage do you really want to use under these conditions? one of their predecessors, president delors, summed up the question of the transfer of transport from road to rail in whole concepts. if you look at the situation today, you will see that little has changed. the situation has, on the contrary, rather deteriorated. we talk about alternative energy and solar energy, wind energy is hardly promoted. the big energy companies don't want to put things like that on the grid. secondly, how should a debate with the citizens be structured? what do we want to talk about? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what information do they want to give us, the members of parliament?
the rapporteur. the commission is not mr fischler is currently sitting on the committee on fisheries, whose work was supposed to end at 9 p.m. but it was so important that he spoke to us about the reform he was planning. i can understand that he is not here at the moment, and he knows us quite well by now. it is a tricky matter: greenland is only a few kilometres east of canada, but more than four hours' flight from copenhagen, and yet it is part of denmark. denmark is a member of the european union. but greenland voted to leave the eu over 15 years ago. don't worry, i don't want to make a fiery speech in favour of greenland's return to the eu, although that would certainly be an interesting debate. i would just like to make it clear what a difficult situation we are in. since greenland's withdrawal from the eu in 1985, there have been fisheries agreements with the community. these were necessary to regulate fishing in greenland's waters and to fix fishing quotas for european vessels. the third protocol on fisheries expired on 31 december 2000 and was replaced by a new one which entered into force on 1 january 2001. yes, the fourth protocol has been in force since january 2001. if we look at today's date, we see that parliament is a few months behind. but - and this is something i want to stress again in this debate - the cause of this delay is not parliament! the protocol was signed in september 2000. but the commission did not send the protocol to parliament for approval until the end of december 2000, just before it officially entered into force. if we take our role as a budgetary authority seriously and if we want to be taken seriously, then such an approach by the commission is unacceptable. in the interests of good relations between the commission and the ep, the agreement is to allow parliament a period of six months between the transmission and entry into force to be able to deliver an opinion. in addition, the greenland side, which waited four months in vain for payments, was also, to put it mildly, not very happy with the commission's behaviour. the advance payment initiated by the commission on its own initiative in mid-april did not alter this situation. the commission should pay more attention to the dates and arrangements in future agreements to avoid such irritations as those which cause interinstitutional discord and damage the international image of the eu. why do we need such a protocol at all, when it costs the eu 42.8 million euros a year? on the one hand, of course, it directly benefits the eu fishermen who set their nets in greenland waters. these fishing opportunities are irreplaceable. secondly, the agreement with greenland is of immense importance for fisheries agreements with other nations such as norway or iceland. the exchange of quotas will make these agreements with norway or iceland possible in the first place. the fourth protocol has finally brought the fishing quotas down to a realistic level. conservation and sustainable management are the key factors in setting the quotas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left to itself to manage. one, if not the most important question in the case of greenland will be: will the cod come back? despite some evidence, the final positive findings of fishermen and science are still lacking. this is of course linked to the problem of what we aptly call 'paper fish'. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fishermen, but that we should be concerned about the fishermen themselves. we need more realism here. this includes the fishing of alternative species as explicitly included in the new protocol, as well as the annual review and confirmation of quotas and support for joint venture projects which have so far been lacking. so we need a realistic fisheries policy with greenland. i therefore call for a cost-benefit analysis before renewal and a mid-term review of the agreement with the active involvement of parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you see, we have much to do. i hope that the amendments you have tabled will be accepted by parliament. but if we are to introduce relative stability, i would ask that this proposal be rejected. however, we are currently working on a compromise to show how united we are on the fisheries issue.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'common carrier'. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner lamy, i would like to thank you for your report. joaquim miranda, thank you very much for your excellent report. i too welcome this initiative from the commission, despite all the criticisms i have. i think this is a first step in the right direction, that we are giving the poorest countries in particular greater access to our markets. of course, we would also have liked the committee on agriculture and rural development to be involved in the decisionmaking process from the outset, so as not to decide on a proposal which has already been decided. we hope that in future this will be handled differently. the committee on agriculture also welcomes this initiative in principle, although it has always expressed a number of reservations. there is a legitimate fear that more goods - sugar, for example - could be delivered to the european union through triangular trade than these countries produce. but this can be prevented by giving each country a quota of what it can supply in sugar. it is manageable and feasible with today's methods. the fear has also been expressed repeatedly that goods are now entering the country that do not meet our hygiene and sanitation guidelines. i can only say that we already have very clear guidelines from the european union on what foodstuffs are allowed to enter the eu. in my view - and here i come to a more personal part - it was also right for the committee on agriculture to adopt this report. but the attitude of the committee on agriculture is in many respects too protectionist for me. look at how little the european union does in trade with these countries! these countries are dependent on a few products that they can export. the report rightly calls for 'everything but weapons'. this is precisely what we are going to supply to these countries and what we are least likely to import from these countries, because they do not produce it at all in the quality we need. i also believe that there is no need to fear that we will be flooded with goods. i would have liked the commission to have passed the council with its proposal to stick to the three-year transitional periods. but it is also important to me that we now support countries in producing for their regional markets. i think it is a bit cynical that the committee on agriculture has proposed that we should ensure that these developing countries do not now grow excessively for export. i think that is something that has been very little considered. i have also seen motions in the committee on agriculture which wanted to emphasize that we welcome this initiative in the first place. i think that is very regrettable, especially when one considers that the european union is a community of solidarity with large transfers of funds. why not offer some transfer to the poorest of the world? as i said, i would have liked the committee on agriculture to adopt a much less protectionist stance. i'll leave it at that.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank the two rapporteurs. both mr mark watts and mr ortuondo larrea have worked for months to achieve a common consensus in the committee on the two reports. we had a common position at first reading and we will have it again at second reading tomorrow. i therefore do not want to say much about what they have done in this case, but i will come straight to the procedure. i regret that our proposal to the council to hold an informal conciliation procedure in order to conclude the erika i package in the next few days with regard to these two directives has once again been rejected. we have proposed that a compromise be sought in the second reading before the official reading by parliament and that the dossier be closed together with the council's approval in the next few days. i am sorry that this cannot be achieved. two points to make: first of all, i should like to mention that i negotiated the railway package with mr gayssot, the french minister for transport, as did my colleagues, but he was available and we were able to talk. the swedish presidency was not there. we should decide as the european parliament that unofficial trilogues will only be approved if the minister is present. we are not sending our advisers into an informal mediation procedure, but we are putting our own personal weight on the scale. the second point concerns what the council has twice offered us as a compromise, which was actually an insult to our intelligence, because it was not a compromise. i therefore hope that the council and the swedish presidency will come up with something better. we are prepared to continue negotiations on this matter until the end of june, following this decision and a decision by the council, with a view to reaching a rapid result in a conciliation procedure. i have a great request to the vice-president: we in the european parliament are representing the commission's concerns in this matter, because the commission too wants to introduce a ship's data recorder. but we as parliament are so afraid, no, we are so sure that the council is always slowing us down and delaying the matter, that we cannot postpone it to erika ii. if the commission is in favour of ship data recorders, please let it support us in the watts report. the same applies to the ortuondo larrea report. we are on the side of the commission which has proposed ceilings. if we now propose a compromise to the classification societies, with minimum and maximum rates for liability, then that is a fair compromise. i hope, mr president, that the commission will not only look to the council but also to the commission and parliament as natural allies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is a german proverb that says: "before the court and on the high seas, you are in god's hands". i am sure that in the courts it is always the case, but on the high seas we can help the lord a little, and i think that is what the commission did when it presented the erika i package, and we must remember that this included port state control, classification societies and also the proposals for double-hulled tankers. i would also like to thank mr ortuondo and mr watts very much for their work. mr ortuondo has just pointed out that it has been a year and a half, and i think that at some point the people will say: how long does it take you in europe to put things right when a disaster like that of erika has happened? it is to be hoped that the council will finally give itself a shake, as mr jarzembowski has already said. because the commission and parliament are ready. the only thing that is missing is the council so that we can come to an orderly settlement. i think it is obvious that - as mr watts said - the only question to be discussed is the question of the ship's data recorders. there must be a way to solve this. i do not want to hide the fact that i am not personally 100% convinced of the question of the maximum liability of the classification societies. but i think that if we are to remain united as a parliament, we must also be united in a conciliation procedure. so you have to be able to put your own concerns in there from time to time. but abstaining from voting is also a way of showing community solidarity in parliament. commissioner, i have a small request to make of you: apart from the two dossiers, could you perhaps give an assessment of what was decided at the end of april at the imo on double-hull tankers and how the commission regards this? that would be nice, because then we would have the whole package. we would obviously have to go through the conciliation procedure with the council. but it might not be that long. because - and mr jarzembowski is right - it is time to end this and to tell the public that we have now acted politically. the public expects it, and that's why it has to happen.
mr president, the need to achieve results quickly in the field of maritime safety is being emphasized every day. this week a cement tanker has crashed again in the so-called kadettrinne in the baltic sea between denmark and germany. the delicate sounding names of the ships, whether erika or ievoli sun, must not be allowed to mislead the public into thinking that there is too much marine-grade scrap drifting around in european waters. as a resident of the german coast, i can only say: enough is enough! the present proposal, which we are now considering at second reading, is part of the so-called erika 1 package, named after the first, so competent, proposals of the commission in response to the accident of the tanker erika off the coast of brittany. when we finished the first reading, we were all full of optimism, because we were enthusiastic about the new momentum of the commission and we believed that our amendments could also be adopted in the council, because they should also be implemented quickly. but most of the time, it's not what you think. today, unfortunately, we are still not very far along. the recommendations of parliament were quite useful and were also partly reflected in the common position. unfortunately, we were not able to reach a positive conclusion in the trilogue before the deadline. what i say prematurely, of course in logical order! i very much regret this, because avoiding the conciliation procedure would have accelerated the entry into force of the provisions. who wants to understand the council's blockade? we need a workable, fair and competitive solution to the issue of the liability of classification societies. we need maximum and insurable amounts of liability. i therefore welcome the proposals. we must not forget: the question of liability is not a question of one-sided blame. all actors must bear their fair share of responsibility. this is of course expressed in greater due diligence from the shipbuilder to the shipowner than before and in concrete amounts of money. i say we take a step forward in the interest of safety. i call on the council to support the commission and us and to contribute actively and visibly in the interests of security.
mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr van dam. i think he has made a very good report. if you look at the explanatory statement again, you see that it contains a lot of arguments and material about what is happening on the streets of europe. what is happening on the streets of europe is either criminal or sordid or both, and often not right! the fact that this dossier does not solve all the problems has also been made very clear by mr van dam in his report. but i think we are getting to the bottom of at least one important point, which is that the social dumping of some of the black sheep in the trucking industry is being put on a leash. it must always be remembered that the vast majority, i believe, do it properly. these are just a few of the people whose behavior has had a devastating effect. the driving and rest periods are one thing, they must be respected, that is not a question, the social conditions of the drivers are just the other aspect. all drivers are entitled to be employed under the conditions which are customary in the member states. the attempt to maintain the driving and rest periods by having two drivers from central and eastern europe, but at the same time to gain competitive advantages by wage dumping, must be avoided, because if two drivers together earn less than the driver employed under the usual conditions in a member state, then this is simply not right. this is the kind of filth that needs to be burned! it is therefore good that we start with third countries, as we have just proposed. in the not too distant future we should extend this to the union, to the member states, so that this system applies to all. i hope that it will not take as long as the erika package, but that we will reach a settlement very quickly. the enlargement to the east is imminent and we need decent social conditions, but also fair conditions of competition on our roads and in the motor vehicle industry.
- the agenda calls for the statements by the council and the commission on the state of the transatlantic dialogue.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the american trade commissioner, mr zoellick, has made a clear but positive offer to this house in the relevant committees through the kangaroo group to work together on an open trade policy to increase prosperity throughout the world, including in the developing countries. i think we should accept this offer and see trade policy as a way of extending the transatlantic relationship as a whole. we all know that nato will continue to play a major role in ensuring collective defence in europe. the european union has a long history of being a major player in the world economy. we must therefore ensure that relations between the united states and europe are strengthened in all other policy areas. we should accept this offer from the united states government. we should also develop the possibilities between our house and the american congress even more, to the extent that we can contribute to this. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take action to ensure that this information is not used in a way that would be harmful to the public interest. let me address one last point: the united states is now the only superpower in the world and is approaching nonpolitical problems as such a global power. the relationship with russia is defined by this global position, whereas we europeans define it by our regional position and also see it in the context of the enlargement process. this must not mean that we lose the opportunity to pursue common strategic approaches in this region. i feel that we have not pursued a common policy in relation to ukraine in recent weeks. the overthrow of the western-oriented government there and the assumption by chernomyrdin of the post of governor and ambassador to kiev show that we have made strategic mistakes here, which we must not underestimate, but which we have not - i regret it - even discussed in the general council this week. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! the transatlantic dialogue must also be extended to the field of global transport policy, since both the us and the europeans have a special responsibility for greater safety in the air and at sea, for better environmental protection and for fair conditions of competition and cartels. the first thing we must aim at is to develop a transatlantic transport market, whether in aviation or shipping, through sensible harmonized regulations, and then, on the basis of harmonized regulations developed between the usa and europe, we must try to achieve global regulations, for example in the field of aircraft noise. we must not have another dispute with the americans over hushkitted airplanes, but we must try to work together to regulate environmental and safety standards in advance. this is not just a task for the commission and the american administration, but we must try to organise, in the transatlantic parliamentary dialogue, technical discussions between the transport experts in the american congress and in the european parliament, so that we avoid political pressure between administrations or lobbyists from the administration. we must fight together to make our environment safer and more secure. this is of great benefit to our people, avoids conflict between the us and europe and can be the basis for a global joint solution. (applause from the centre)
- i have received, pursuant to rule 37 (2), six motions for resolutions (see minutes). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
- madam president, this vote is very important because, after the cancellation of friday, mini-plenaries are illegal! if you do not need a friday, you do not need an additional plenary. that is why it is very important that we hold these votes one by one, that we reject each mini-plenary session!
the rapporteur. mr president, i have tabled an oral amendment to amendment no 9 by mrs figueiredo. in particular, in consultation with the original applicant, mrs figueiredo, i would like to table this oral amendment to replace the present motion no 9 in your documents. the wording of the oral request is as follows: 'during the preparation of the mid-term review of the agreement, the question whether fishing opportunities in the waters under greenland's jurisdiction will be granted in future to fishermen from all member states of the community shall be discussed'. i ask your consent.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the months-long hunger strike by turkish prisoners and their families has already cost so many lives. the european union must not continue to stand by and watch more people die. the european parliament must have a united voice in order to be taken seriously as a negotiating partner. we must not be indifferent to the massive human rights violations in turkish prisons. we must not forget human values. the european union must insist on respect for human rights. the turkish parliament recently passed a law to ease the conditions of solitary confinement. accordingly, only prisoners who have been convicted under the anti-terrorism act are allowed to participate in cultural and sporting activities. i criticize this law because it does not allow all prisoners to participate in the common activities. all prisoners must be treated equally. i cannot tolerate the torture and ill-treatment of prisoners in solitary confinement and the arbitrariness of the guards without witnesses. in solitary confinement, people are completely cut off from the outside world. after all, every human needs human closeness and contact with others. it is urgent that a solution be found to prevent further deaths. i therefore call on the turkish government and the prisoners' organisations, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, to agree to a political dialogue. dialogue can achieve social consensus, whereas violence only breeds violence. my group cannot deal with turkey's internal affairs. but we all want to do our part to put an end to this situation. if turkey is to be accepted into the european union, it must commit itself to democratization and humanization of the prison system. human rights must apply to all, including prisoners. i wish for a reconciliation, i wish for inner peace and not for hatred that tears deep wounds. that's worth raising your voice for.
- mr president, first of all i would like to thank the council and the commission for the information they have given me, because i believe that there is a lot of work being done there, even if the newspapers do not report much about it. i spoke to a journalist from a bavarian newspaper in istanbul today. i was saddened to hear from her that not only is the turkish government partially ignoring the deaths currently occurring in turkish prisons, but that turkish society is not interested in it either. under these conditions it is of course very difficult to explain to the people of turkey why we are talking about this problem here in the european parliament today. but the turkish public in particular should know that it is unacceptable in any state governed by the rule of law that people die in its prisons and nobody does anything about it. for this reason, precisely because we take turkey seriously, because we want turkey to have a chance in the european union in the future, we also want the same behaviour from the turkish side that we would expect in our own eu countries. under these circumstances, it is really very, very sad and worrying to see that ... demonstrators are entering the plenary and chanting slogans: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud.
- mr president, i have to go. i'm not gonna take advantage of the situation and take up more time. i think i have about half a minute left and i will finish my speech. i regret this incident, of course. i have no problem with any kind of demonstration; but we should respect the work of this parliament and not hinder it, at a time when we are trying to end the situation as peacefully as possible and to prevent people from dying. that's all i'm going to say. but as far as the problem itself is concerned, this incident also shows us how difficult it is for us. i can only appeal to turkey, as my colleague daniel cohn-bendit has already done. it is possible to induce some people to stop their actions if turkey would show acceptance of the three points already mentioned by daniel cohn-bendit. i hope that turkey will finally take these efforts seriously and show a little more sympathy and will not be more obstinate, because otherwise no one in the european public is prepared to accept turkey's behaviour. and that is what is most damaging to turkey's image.
- mr president, i would ask you to investigate how these three gentlemen came to be in this house. we have such a tight security system here that we have difficulty getting our citizens in here who are willing to come here. there's no way these people got in without being let in. the fact that the communists stood up when they came in shows where they came from. i ask you to really check who signed the note! (applause from the centre)
the council. - mr. speaker, i have to go. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in late february, albanian extremists seized the village of tanusevci on the border between kosovo and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom), which resulted in violent clashes between extremists and the army and police forces of fyrom. in mid-march, unrest spread to the town of tetovo in western fyrom as uniformed men took the villages north of the town and from there fired on the town ruthlessly. fyrom's army launched a motor offensive against the occupied villages that was completed on 1 april. later that month, however, the extremists resumed fighting in villages northwest of the city of kumanovo, and the fighting is still ongoing. it is therefore clear that the risk of outright civil war is imminent and the european union has made great efforts to prevent such a development. the european union reacted almost immediately to the fighting around tanusevci and tetovo by issuing declarations condemning the violent attacks and calling on all parties involved to put an end to the violence immediately. intensive diplomatic activity was initiated in skopje to support the government of fyrom, the country's sovereignty and territorial integrity. the eu presidency at local level established close contacts with the main actors. it called on the government of fyrom to act with restraint against the extremists, and urged the leaders of the main albanian parties to openly distance themselves from and isolate the extremists, and the slavonic-macedonian opposition parties not to take advantage of the situation to whip up nationalist sentiments against the albanian minority. from the outset, a major effort was also made to reach the general public through the media in the country with the union's message of distancing itself from the extremists. now, too, intense shuttle diplomacy was under way. foreign minister kerim was invited to hold discussions with the eu presidency and high representative solana on the occasion of the general affairs council meeting on 19 march. the next day, a polish troika headed with solana to skopje, and at the end of the same week, the troika of foreign ministers with solana went to skopje and pristina to mark their support for the government and their condemnation of the actions of the extremists. the visits resulted, inter alia, in the troika getting the albanian leaders in fyrom and kosovo to sign declarations publicly denouncing the violent methods of the extremists and instead calling on them to put forward their demands in political forums and in accordance with democratic rules of the game. as a further sign of eu support for fyrom's political leadership, president trajkovski was invited to the european council meeting in stockholm on 23 march. he was able to present his view of the vulnerable situation in the country to the entire european council. in order to provide financial support for the policy, a review of the union's assistance to fyrom for the current year was carried out. intensive efforts were made by both the commission and the eu member states to, inter alia, cover the funding gap for the new university with teaching in albanian in tetovo and to try to take rapid action to rebuild destroyed houses in the villages north of tetovo and to try to support other projects that can strengthen the inter-ethnic cohesion in the country. as you all know, on 9 april fyrom was the first country in the western balkans to sign a stabilisation and association agreement with the union after almost a year of negotiations. the agreement is a key step in fyrom's approach to the union, and the signing was also an important symbolic act of eu support to the country. fyrom is now considered as well as the other countries of the western balkans as potential candidates for membership of the union. however, the unrest in fyrom has made it clear that there is a real need to improve the status and rights of the albanian and other minorities in the country. in the context of the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement, the fyrom government launched a reform action plan to accelerate the overall adjustment required by this agreement, but also to intensify inter-ethnic dialogue and strengthen the position of minorities. we regret to say that the actual work on reform has been slow. the only thing that has been achieved so far is to prevent the declaration of martial law, postpone the general census until october and set the date for the new parliamentary elections for 27 january 2002. but above all, after intense negotiations and pressure from the international community, a broad coalition government has been successfully established to serve as the political base and platform for the necessary but difficult decisions that must be taken in the near future. there are, in the council's view, measures which the government should and could implement immediately. these include, firstly, the launch of a third state television channel for minority languages, secondly, the adoption of the long overdue law on the strengthening of local self-government and, thirdly, the ratification of the council of europe's charter on minority languages. in the medium term, and before next year's elections, the government must also implement the necessary constitutional changes to balance the differences between the status of the slav macedonian population and the status of other minorities in the country, as well as take the necessary measures to strengthen the representation of minorities in the administration. today, the troika of union foreign ministers is visiting skopje again to convey this message. foreign minister lindh went directly from this chamber to skopje. the new coalition government will be invited to report on its progress and its further action plan to the general affairs council on 25 and 26 june. in other words, fyrom faces a difficult but necessary reform process. time is short to avoid another civil war. it is important to point out that the primary responsibility lies with the management of fyrom. the union has an important supporting role to play and the council, together with the high representative, ms solana, and not least the presidency at central and local level, intends to continue its support for this process. we also believe that parliament and its political groups have an important role to play. in the period up to the end of june, the coalition government will need support and encouragement, but also pressure, to carry out the necessary reforms while holding together the fragile governing coalition. the council considers it of great value if the parliament's political groups could get in touch with their partners in fyrom and support them through this process, to the extent that this is not already happening. there is still a chance to avoid a full-scale civil war in fyrom. we must make sure that we take advantage of this opportunity.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the commission welcomes the efforts of the macedonian leadership which led to the formation of a broad coalition government on sunday and now hopes that this new government will achieve concrete results in the dialogue between the parties. this dialogue was launched a few weeks ago in cooperation with the european union, as you know. we will continue to support the new government in promoting tolerance and moderation and in applying the principle of 'dialogue rather than violence' in the settlement of differences. my colleague chris patten and the presidency will be delivering this message to the new government and the president of the country today on the occasion of the visit of the european union's troika of ministers to skopje. the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia was signed in luxembourg on 9 april. this was a very important, certainly a historic step for the stability of the entire balkan region. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use. the second agreement with croatia was initialled in brussels last monday. the agreement symbolises the close relations between the union and macedonia and provides the basis for a rapid rapprochement with the european union. the main elements of the agreement are the establishment of a free trade area between the community and macedonia within a period of 10 years from the entry into force of the agreement, the opening of political dialogue, provisions on regional cooperation, an obligation on the macedonian authorities to bring their legislation into line with ec law, in particular internal market legislation, and cooperation in areas such as justice and home affairs. the agreement makes it clear that macedonia has a european perspective. this perspective must be realized now. the agreement therefore does not represent the end of a process but the beginning of a difficult path for the country. it is now up to the macedonian side to prove to the eu that it has the will to meet the basic criteria, and above all it is now important that the country shows that it is able to resolve inter-ethnic conflicts through political dialogue rather than through violence. the eu will continue to provide full support. the commission condemns the new terrorist acts of violence in northern macedonia and urges all members of the albanian minority to leave it to the two legitimate albanian parties to discuss the demands of this ethnic minority in a democratic forum, either with the new government or with the special committee chaired by president trajkovski. the european union is already doing its utmost to facilitate this dialogue. as the members of the european parliament are aware, we are at a very critical stage in the history of macedonia. the european union will continue to express its solidarity with the country and its confidence in its people. we are clear that the great objective of stabilising the balkan region cannot be achieved unless the territorial integrity and national sovereignty of macedonia are guaranteed. the main effort, however, must be made by the people themselves and their political leaders. they are responsible for the future of their country. we will in any case encourage the continuation of the dialogue and the achievement of concrete results. we are convinced that only a peaceful and democratic process, which addresses the legitimate concerns of minorities, will advance macedonia on its path to europe.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. on behalf of the group of the european people's party, we welcome the active support for the peace process in macedonia. in the course of the last few months we have seen for the first time that the council and the commission have acted together in this case here in the former yugoslavia, that everyone has assessed the situation in the same way and that is why we have come to act together. we should just remember that we can't leave the country when the fighting subsides, and for once there's no shooting. we must instead monitor the situation continuously and closely, that is, on the spot. the european parliament has done this consistently since 1993. we have been talking to our macedonian colleagues and the government about all the problems. we have repeatedly urged them not to underestimate the festering interethnic conflict and to do everything possible to prevent such conflicts from breaking out. for many years, little happened. that's too bad. it must be said that this problem has been criminally neglected for many years. but this last government has been in office for two and a half years and has done a lot of good and has brought a lot of things to the albanian people. and at this very moment, when there are important ministers of albanian origin with important portfolios, when a solution has really been reached to the albanian educational question and also to the problem of the university of tetovo, at this very moment hostility is erupting. you just have to say, this was brought in from outside. i am surprised that none of my predecessors - neither the council nor the commission - has reminded me that this has just been brought in from outside. so we should just go see what it's like over there. we had elections in kosovo last year. if we had had elections in kosovo this spring, we probably could have prevented this unrest in the neighbouring country. but you can't prove that. we now have a situation where mr hekkerup, without speaking to us, the parliament - i do not know whether he has spoken to the commission, but he has never spoken to us - has said that he is not prepared to do so. we are paying for the administration of unmik, we are the main contributors, but no one asks us how to proceed down there - to construct a constitution which is not 100% accepted by either the serbs or the albanians. she's probably good then. but if i announce the constitution now in may and hold the elections in november, then we have seven months in which the extremists will find many more hotbeds of unrest. you don't do that! you should learn from your mistakes. perhaps we should ask our colleagues in the european parliament. we would have told them. so i think the mistakes have been made. we hope that the election can be brought forward after all! i'm going back to macedonia. to the gentlemen in the stands, i must say: it says "situation arym" on the top. in english it would say "situation fyrom". this is nothing but the country macedonia, which the neighbouring country refuses to name. this is the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. fyrom and arym are really helpful. they should be put in the moth box of history soon! we welcome the formation of the all-party government and hope that it will be able to take steps towards interethnic coexistence. we hope that none of the parties is pursuing separatist or nationalist ideas. so i think we're on the right track. i accept the council's proposal. we will try to travel to skopje with a delegation before the summer.
- mr president, i have to go. the motion before us is designed to torpedo our work. we have had a very long debate in committee with the rapporteur, mrs schleicher. we want to discuss this now in the european parliament. my group is now in a special session. i think this debate is so important that i'm taking part in it myself. we must now hold the debate so that the swedish presidency can conclude this matter. because if we do not debate now, this party statute, this regulation, will no longer be possible under the swedish presidency. i therefore ask all colleagues of good will to debate this today so that we can vote accordingly tomorrow, when the vote on the matter is due. so i am very much against this proposal. i also regret that i have to say this to my colleague and friend dupuis. i would ask you, mr dupuis, in all friendship, to consider changing your mind.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to go. we had the discussion in committee. it's been discussed. the legal basis seems to be the article on which the commission relied. it is a political decision whether we want to go down that road. the committee has decided by a large majority that we shall base this article on it.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i can imagine that certain colleagues are delighted. it's a very interesting coalition that has emerged here. i hope you always feel comfortable in this alliance. but i would like to say on behalf of the vast majority of my group that we are not going to be discouraged by this result of the vote, which is of course in accordance with the rules of procedure. i will be making a request on behalf of my group and informing the president - and i am saying this publicly - that we will discuss this subject at the next mini-conference in brussels, with the hope that it will be concluded during the swedish presidency. i would also point out that we were told internally that the debate on this subject was not due to begin until 4.45 p.m. that's why we were surprised that it was starting so soon. as a good democrat, i naturally respect this result. i hope that those who have just won a chance victory here will be equally good democrats in the future. i would like to make it clear on behalf of my group that we will do everything to obtain party status, because this is good and necessary for the unification of europe and democracy in europe. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, as coordinator of the group of the european people's party in the committee on constitutional affairs, i would just like to point out that there are differences of opinion in our group on this subject. i would have mentioned that in my speech today. i personally believe that, in view of the criticisms made by the court of auditors, it is indeed appropriate to find a solution to the problem at hand, and the question should have been discussed politically today on this basis.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
- mr president, i have to go. mr cercas alonso has written a really excellent report. we have seen that it is a matter of great concern to all of us: the future security of pensions, a very hot iron which, if left to stand, will not cool down but will become hotter. that is why the member states and the european union are called upon to do so. we need a pension system that is adequate. that is why i think it is particularly important to refer to the 1992 recommendation. but it is also about the flexibility of pension systems in view of social change and adaptation to the labour market. the idea of active ageing is basically accepted. in this context, the 2000 employment guidelines can be recalled, i.e. maintaining working capacity and lifelong learning. i would also like to refer to what the committee on women's rights has brought into the report. he points to the countless women who receive widow's pensions and have to live without their own income. we must counteract the tendency to reduce widow's pensions. this is a very important point in the report. as regards the future, the concept of open coordination is discussed. we must also make this concrete with regard to pensions. we must not simply use it as a magic word, but we must see that the employment guidelines cannot simply be transposed line by line. we need new forms of coordination which must be created. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the way in which he has dealt with the first pillar, but also the second and third pillars. i would also like to refer to the idea of employee-owned wealth creation. we must ensure that this wealth creation and the pension system do not conflict but work closely together. (applause from the centre)
the council. let me say at the outset that i fully agree with the honourable member on the importance of the act in question. let me also say that the council appreciates the work that mr klaß has done as rapporteur on this important subject. the council also took the opinion of the european parliament into account. it is therefore very understandable that parliament is concerned about the delay in the council's final decision on this matter. the reason for the delay in the final decision is that some member states have asked for additional time for consideration of the rules on genetically modified organisms, even though these rules are no different from existing community rules and are equivalent to those recently adopted under the community directives on seeds and forestry material. the adoption of the directive was on the agenda of the meeting of the earthenware council in november last year. it was postponed to december and then to january this year because no agreement was reached on the rules on genetically modified organisms. however, the swedish presidency's aim is to reach agreement on supporting and adopting the new legislation in the council before the end of the swedish presidency, i.e. by june this year at the latest.
- mr president, i would like to ask the president-in-office whether it is normal that we wait five months for a decision. we've been working on it, after all. if we think about this directive, it is ultimately also about having clear rules on breeding, authorization, registration and control, so that there is legal certainty for the grape growers in the european union. this part is also very important for economic operators and partners in the eu. secondly, as i have been informed, they have always wanted to wait until the release directive, directive 90/220, has been adopted. it has now been passed by the conciliation committee, so it has been adopted. i therefore believe that there is no reason to delay this further. this directive does not provide for final authorization. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i therefore ask that parliament's work in the council not be blocked but rather pushed forward.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs on behalf of the commission for their excellent work. we are talking about an area which is not only very important for the regions, but also very important for the european budget. the budget for this year, after all, has allocated eur 2.4 billion to the olive oil sector. in this respect, it is of course also a very important area for the audit activities of the european court of auditors. mr casaca has studied the special report of the court of auditors. mr jové peres chaired the debate on the commission proposal. strictly speaking, these two areas are not linked, since the court's special report deals with the measures and aid applied during a transitional period of three years of the scheme prior to the council's decision of 1998, whereas the commission's proposal relates to the measures to be taken from november 2001. first of all, the report by mr casaca. the commission can agree with mr casaca's motion for a resolution on the court of auditors' report on most points. we would like to make a detailed comment on two points. the commission, in its examination of the court of auditors' report in the middle of last year, stated that the improvement of the control system will of course be an important issue in the next reform of the common organization of the market. after a thorough examination of this issue, it became clear that fundamental reform is necessary if significant improvements are to be achieved. in any case, a geographical information system is required. since the conditions for such a reform were not yet in place in 2001, the commission proposed at the end of last year to postpone the date for the reform by two years, citing the crucial importance of the geographical information system. the court's proposals also pointed to further improvements in this area. following very constructive discussions with the member states, these improvements were then made the subject of commission regulation (ec) no 648/2000 at the end of march 2001. the present motion for a resolution expresses surprise at the commission's doubts about the reliability of the statistical data of the international olive council. these doubts, however, are not surprising. they were expressed at every council meeting between 1995 and 1998. the commission has examined the data in question and has discussed the details with the member states on several occasions. the international olive oil council's 1999 statistics had to be revised to bring the data together. this resulted in a 30% reduction in the calculated stocks. it was also found that the national data had a margin of uncertainty of between 10% and 12%. the following is to be said about the report by mr jové peres: the report on the commission proposal for the future common organization of the market in olive oil is divided into two thematic areas: firstly, postponement of the decision on the reform of the olive oil sector for two years until more precise data and a more reliable control system are available, and secondly, the introduction of a new system for the classification of olive oil and the quality strategy for olive oil. the amendments relate to four main issues: market measures and the final reform, the control of the current system, the classification and labelling of olive oil and the activities of the organisations of market operators. i want to answer all these questions. as regards the general market aspects, the commission supports amendment no 2, which points out the need to evaluate the results of the measures during the transitional period. the commission takes note of amendments nos 4, 5 and 9, but cannot formally accept them because they anticipate the decision on the final reform, which the commission intends to leave open at this stage. amendments nos 3, 6 and 26 on automatic private storage, even if the market situation does not require it, cannot be accepted. the commission cannot accept amendments nos 1 and 46 concerning aid for the actual production of oil shale, because they would make controls more difficult. the commission also cannot accept amendment no 27, which seeks to extend production refunds to products which are not subject to international competition with cheap olive oil. the commission is of the opinion that the implementation of amendment no 37, which concerns the prohibition in principle of new plantings of olive groves, and the legal consequences of this would raise major problems in terms of land use. over the years, many provisions have been adopted on control measures. but the remaining problems are related to the marketing structures. the commission has also proposed that the geographical information system, which will be introduced as a condition for granting aid from 2003, should be introduced. the amendments proposed in this connection are already largely incorporated in the commission's regulations. amendments nos 7, 11 and 14 call for greater involvement of the commission and further research. the commission is already working closely with the member states on checks, without overstepping their final competence. in the areas you have mentioned, research programmes have already been funded under the general procedure. amendments nos 8, 10, 22, 23, 24 and 36 concern the improvement of checks at the mills. this is particularly the case with the use of electronic data transmission. the commission regulation (ec) no 2366/98 already legally established the priority control of mills. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the same rules to the various types of waste. in addition, mills must submit their stock records at the end of each month. these have already been compared with the information available on olive oil production and marketing. the proposal for a computer-based system for daily monitoring will be examined. if it proves to be sensible and practicable, the commission could adopt a corresponding regulation. it is important to bear in mind that the computer tools provided for the member states are unfortunately not yet fully operational. as regards classification and labelling in accordance with amendments nos 16, 18 and 45 and 19 and 35, we have taken note of their requests, and in particular of their demand that the place of harvest be considered as the place of origin. however, since these issues fall within the commission's competence, the commission cannot accept that these provisions be incorporated into the basic council regulation. the commission has already proposed that the use of olive oil as an ingredient be banned. these proposals are commercially questionable. the commission therefore considers that the labelling of foodstuffs should be in accordance with directive 2000/13 (ec). the commission is, of course, aware that the olive oil sector is calling for a ban on the marketing of mixtures of olive oil and other fats. the commission cannot, however, ban healthy and properly labelled products for which there is demand, simply to protect the sale of another product. we therefore reject amendments nos 17, 20 and 32. the commission will, however, ensure that appropriate labelling rules are drawn up and, of course, olive oil sold under one of the four compulsory names must remain pure olive oil and must have all the characteristics that distinguish this product. the commission has already proposed that the term 'natural olive oil' be used instead of 'raw olive oil' in amendment no 47 and that the term 'ordinary olive oil' be added to the term 'standard olive oil' in amendment no 48. the commission cannot accept this at the moment, as it prefers to look again for terms which better reflect the ideas of the whole sector. the commission will, however, bring its suggestion to the council's subsequent discussions. amendment no 21 proposes that the new classification should come into force on 1 november 2002, i.e. one year before the date envisaged by the commission. the commission has not yet been able to conclude the necessary implementing measures, the market adjustments and the international negotiations, and therefore cannot accept this proposal. finally, as regards the operators' organisations, the commission supports amendments nos 12 with the somewhat more general formulation of the objectives, 25 with the proposal to include table olives in the current provisions for the quality improvement programmes and 30 subject to legal examination and with the definition of 'recognised inter-branch organisations'. the very specific amendment no 13 could be of interest for measures to be promoted in the environmental programmes, but not for the basic regulation of the sector. as regards the measures for which operators' organisations could receive a grant, the commission is prepared to examine the inclusion of table olives and the guarantee of origin. the commission will, however, have to decide on the details of the possible measures. the various forms of promotion must remain within the harmonised framework applicable to all agricultural products. amendments nos 39, 40 and 43 must therefore be rejected. in order to be approved, an operator organisation must meet certain criteria which are yet to be defined by the commission. the restructuring of the olive oil sector has been less extensive than that of the other sectors, so that new discussions and conditions seem necessary. the commission notes its wish to give priority to producer organisations and inter-branch associations involving producers. however, at the present time, it does not seem to make much sense to restrict the measures which can help to improve the quality and thus the sale of olive oil. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the organisation of operators are applied as soon as possible. this is certainly desirable. however, it will take two years to develop the detailed rules for the sector, the operators' organisations and their programmes, the examination of the programmes, the examination and authorisation of the organisations by the member states and the development of the necessary control instruments. if we rush things, we will jeopardize the success of the quality strategy. the commission cannot therefore accept amendments nos 15, 28, 29, 31, 38, 41, 42 and 44. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the remaining provisions are mostly within the commission's own competence and will be developed and amended in the coming months in the light of its recommendations.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the council has again presented us with a supplementary budget to put the common foreign, security and defence policy in europe on a broader basis. we have examined very closely the original draft supplementary budget which the council has sent us and have come to the conclusion that it is unacceptable in this way. i would like to make it quite clear why: the key to this important policy area is to ensure the necessary transparency and control. the common foreign and security policy of the european union is one of the key elements for the further development of this european union. it is not possible to deprive national parliaments of their powers of control in this important area and not have them transferred to the european parliament. this democratic deficit had to be closed. i would also like to make it quite clear that interinstitutional agreements are all very well, but they are not the appropriate instrument for effective controls. the western european union and its parliamentary assembly are not the appropriate instrument to ensure effective control either. we therefore understood that only the budgetary procedure could reasonably guarantee transparency and control in this important policy area. i therefore sincerely thank all those who have supported this difficult journey we have made together, the tough negotiations with the council and the line i have followed from the beginning as your rapporteur. i would also like to thank the swedish presidency of the council for making it possible to reach a solution now which ensures that the council's ability to act in the area in which it has contractual competence is safeguarded. the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment. that was our mandate, that was what we stood for and what we negotiated. we have not been led - and i am very grateful to the members for this - to make a distinction between administrative expenditure and operational expenditure. we would have lost that way. you can't tell the difference between a planning job and a management job, or a management job and an operational job! but now that it has been possible to ensure that a separate title in the council budget covers activities in the field of the common foreign and security policy, this distinction and thus control is optimally guaranteed. the supplementary budget, to include the figures, has a total volume of eur 9.846 million. it provides for the creation of 51 planning posts in this area and for the provision of additional technical facilities necessary for the extension of the buildings. i want to make one thing very clear here: we will of course be reviewing the council's budget in depth during the 2002 budgetary procedure, particularly in this new title. it is not possible for the council to re-establish as a parallel structure the competences which the european union already has today and which are provided for in the commission budget, in particular in the field of crisis prevention and civilian crisis management. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the budget for the financial year in question. we will also ensure that in the area of category v, the european union's ability to act in its administrative expenditure is still guaranteed for the future. i would like to encourage the council not only to deal with this important subject by means of supplementary budgets but to include it in its regular budget so that we can have a reasonable set of figures when we discuss the other areas in category v. i would like to thank the colleagues from almost all the political groups who have supported me here. i would also like to say quite clearly that i am somewhat disappointed that the greens have tabled a motion to reject the supplementary budget. tomorrow the chairman of the committee on budgets will give our vote on this motion. until we can prove - and we need ammunition - that there are double structures, there is no point in rejecting globally what has been achieved as a great success for the european parliament and thus for the citizens of europe!
- mr president, i have to go. i am surprised - i must admit - to see the last speaker as the official speaker of the epp group. i didn't expect that at all. i had expected him to be closer to home, since we know that there is a negative amendment from the green group to this supplementary and amending budget. but in this parliament nothing should really surprise us, especially in this area. the common foreign and security policy is one of the european union's policies which is almost undeveloped. it is true that in the past we have had the situation in the commission where we had several commissioners who had to agree among themselves who was to look after and deal with which part of the world. that was thought of with a smile at times. but it is irresponsible, when we look at the substance of the policy, that the european union does not speak with a single voice and acts as a dwarf in the world, even though it is an economic global player and with the representative of the common foreign and security policy, the secretary-general, here, in principle - maliciously speaking - could have pushed an operetta general in front of him. we are therefore convinced that if we want to take the common foreign and security policy seriously and actually implement it, if we want to put an end to the failure of european foreign policy as we have seen in recent years, we must also support the common foreign and security policy. this morning mr brok said in the transatlantic debate that we have not acted at all as the european union in ukraine. the corresponding malfunctions were observed. we must therefore not only take seriously the council's desire to make real progress in this area, but also support it. so the support in principle is there. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. it would be a clear indication that we do not want parliamentary control or parliamentary monitoring. this is not acceptable. we have said that from the beginning and we will continue to say it and to follow it up with our policies and our voting behaviour. but if we can enter into negotiations and clarify this very point, if we can make it clear that the supplementary and amending budget will be changed in such a way that in future we can be expected to be involved and to have the possibility of influencing it, if there is a separate chapter in which the council provides parliamentary support and control in future for policies in the field of the common foreign and security policy, then we must also agree to this if we really want to make progress. then we cannot stand by and say we are waiting to see how things develop. one thing is clear: if, as i have been told, when the foreign affairs committee or the committee on budgets wink at questions from the commissioner concerned, he is told that there is no overlap, then it is not surprising that there are people who want to know what it is really like. what we will not support - i say this as a member of the budgetary authority - we are talking here primarily as the budgetary authority - are double structures. we cannot see two different people in the same structures doing the same work for the same tasks in the european union. it can't be. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is not left behind. there must be concepts and the council and the commission must be very clear. we will of course also make our position very clear throughout this debate. we shall use our power as budgetary authority to prevent any miscalculation in any future request. today is not the time to be petty. the role of the common foreign and security policy at european level is still very small. we shouldn't be petty at the beginning. but we will be watching very closely as things unfold, we will put our finger in the wound and say stop immediately if we feel we are being dragged across the table. this can't be. we will agree to that, but let everyone know that we will be very vigilant both in relation to category 5 and the development of expenditure and the further development of the common foreign and security policy. we will of course also contribute to the development of a future-oriented policy for the world and for europe as a whole.
- mr president, i have to go. i must also say that this is a very interesting debate. we had a first taste of this in the committee when mr laschet suddenly appeared as a fervent defender of rejection, although he belongs to the same group as the rapporteur. if we are in favour of rejection today, it is not because we do not appreciate mr ferber's work. on the contrary, we really think that mr ferber has negotiated very tough. we have the utmost respect. we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report, and we are going to vote for the report. i agree with the previous speakers that this agreement cannot of course be covered by the gentlemen's agreement because it is not about administrative expenditure. this is a matter of real political importance. mr ferber has already made this clear in his speech. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we are in complete agreement on that too. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. we doubt that. we believe that this title does not give parliament any rights, but on the contrary, by being located in the council, these bodies are outside our sphere of influence and control. i think that's the key, not just the overlap, but the question of who can control. the delicate balance of power between parliament, the commission and the council is at stake. the council is taking on more and more tasks, trying to solve them more and more intergovernmentally rather than by really bringing the areas together. that would mean placing them in the commission, which would also strengthen the parliament's control capabilities. that's the one big fear, which is that we don't have any real control. we have to cut another point. we believe that this issue must be resolved through a conciliation process and not through a trilogue, because this also shows the importance we attach to this issue and how much we insist that parliament has full control. i think the council should be aware that this method of supplementary budgeting, which aims to change the political situation and the balance of political powers, is opposed by parliament.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. just two quick remarks: firstly, i can assure you on behalf of the commission that we will be very careful not to create any duplicate structures - and i am not just saying this as the member of the commission responsible for the budget. secondly, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur and the committee on budgets on the fact that it was their initiative and their pressure that brought about the change in the presentation of the budget, which is not just a change in the presentation but an important contribution in terms of increased democratic control and transparency.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the challenge facing the commission in preparing the preliminary draft budget for 2002 was to ensure that the financial cover for the long-term commitments for the coming year, the financial cover for the new and special priorities for the coming year and the financial cover for the financial risks to the budget caused by the bse crisis and foot-and-mouth disease were all included in the budgetary planning framework, thus ensuring budgetary discipline. the preliminary draft adopted by the commission on 8 may seems to me to have done us a good job. i should like to make a few brief comments on the main points of this preliminary draft budget. the preliminary draft budget is about eur 100,3 billion, which means that it has reached the eur 100 billion threshold for the first time. this means an increase of 3.5% in commitment appropriations compared with the current year's budget and an increase of 4.8% in payments, even though they amount to eur 97.8 billion in absolute terms. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a step in the right direction. i believe that these figures alone prove that the budgetary discipline adopted by the commission is based on the principle of budgetary discipline. the average increase in the plans declared by the member states for the next financial year is 3.8%. even if we make this comparison - the eu budget to the budgets of the member states - it is clear that we are also in this framework. the commission's budget proposal, expressed as a percentage of the european gross national product, is then at a rate of 1.06%, which is below what we discussed about a year ago for the current financial year. this is in particular due to the relatively high and satisfactory growth rates in the european union. i should like to speak briefly about each of these sectors, starting with the largest sector, which is still the agricultural sector, without going into the olive oil sector in detail, because i have just had the opportunity to do so. the commission proposal provides for an overall increase in the agricultural budget of 5% - a high figure which must of course be explained. the explanation is that this is the third year in which the reforms decided in the context of agenda 2000 are to be secured financially. these reforms have been accompanied by an increase in expenditure. the second point is that the commission is proposing - and i am sure we have the support of parliament on this - to include in the budget for category 1b, the promotion of rural development, the full approach as proposed in the financial perspective. the most important and difficult task was to deal with the uncertainties caused by the bse crisis and foot-and-mouth disease. the commission proposal provides for an additional eur 1.145 billion for 2002 to deal with the bse crisis in the cattle market regime. this is the amount needed to ensure the financing of the seven-point plan proposed by the commission. the proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in sheepmeat and goatmeat, which is the subject of a proposal by the commission, is to be incorporated into the 2002 budget. at the same time, i must point out that this amount will not be sufficient. this, of course, requires an explanation. i hope that we will be able to finance part of the reimbursement to the member states for the foot-and-mouth disease crisis, from the 2001 budget, at the appropriate time this year. it is very important that the commission's preliminary draft budget for 2002 should include a reserve of eur 1 billion to be earmarked for any further measures that may be necessary in the wake of the bse crisis and foot-and-mouth disease. it is essential to ensure that the risks are well hedged. the bottom line is that there will still be a margin of 365 million euro in the agricultural budget. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security is a very good one. that is a very high figure, but it was decided by the budgetary authority in the re-budgeting. i also mention the figure to emphasize that it is the most important instrument, the most important financial instrument, also for combating unemployment. it is the european union's contribution to regional policy, which is also essentially aimed at combating unemployment. often this contribution is taken for granted by the member states and is no longer valued for what it is, namely the contribution of the european union. the total increase in commitment appropriations for the internal policies is 4.1%. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources available for the community's structural funds are used to finance the necessary measures. the main points in this category are summarized very briefly: the budget for research and development is over eur 4 billion, while eur 112 million is proposed for information and communication and the various information campaigns. the new food authority is budget-friendly, as are the two new proposed agencies for aviation safety and maritime safety. the internal affairs and justice sector - which i will mention again because it is one of the priorities adopted by parliament in the 2002 budgetary guidelines - has a total of 81 million for a wide range of measures, including the european refugee fund, measures to combat violence against children and women and measures in the field of migration policy. the commission has not proposed to use the flexibility instrument for this purpose next year. nevertheless, the policy areas for the balkans can be financed at almost the same level as this year. the meda programme also has a very large budget of eur 863 million. i would like to point out once again that we are proposing, in particular, a very large increase in the payment appropriations for these programmes, in order to respond to the justified criticism that in the external sphere there have been many promises but sometimes only very hesitant implementation, and that it is therefore necessary, in particular, to implement the programmes. the commission's proposal - i am mentioning this because it was raised yesterday in the budget committee - would then mean that the backlog in category 4 in external policies would be reduced from 3.3 years to 2.8 years. let me make this clear again: if one calculates the number of years it would take to make up the arrears on existing payment obligations, it was 3.3 years at the end of 2000. i think when you get to 2.8 years, that's a big point. it is also important to emphasize that this requires the appropriate administrative effort and, of course, also the availability of the appropriate means of payment to achieve this. i would like to mention briefly again a point which i was able to raise yesterday, namely the problem which has arisen as a result of the failure to conclude the fisheries agreement with morocco. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the portuguese and spanish fleets, which are now affected by the non-existence of this agreement. the budget for preaccession assistance is eur 3.3 billion, in line with the financial perspective. the same applies here as to the other external policies, namely that there are in particular strong increases in payment appropriations to ensure that programmes are effectively implemented on the ground. this will ensure that pre-accession assistance can be fully used to implement the reforms needed to enlarge the european union. the commission proposes that administrative expenditure should amount to 5.1% of the total budget next year. the commission will ask the budgetary authority to grant the second instalment of our additional 317 posts required by the commission's work. the commission has also included in its budget proposals which are important in the context of enlargement, such as the codification of legal texts. i am anticipating the debate on the report in advance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the first measures will be necessary next year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would stress again that the overall margin in category 5 is very small. if i summarise the proposals already put forward by the other institutions, such as the council and parliament, i have to say that this would probably mean that the ceiling for category 5 would be exceeded. this is a sign that good cooperation is needed in this area if the ceiling is to be respected. in conclusion, i believe that the discussions on the 2002 budget will not be an easy task either, in other words, that good cooperation will be required. i can say quite clearly that i look forward to working together on the 2002 budget.
deputy chairman of the committee on budgets. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we take note of this preliminary draft budget from the commission and, as always, we will examine very carefully whether the priorities mentioned by parliament have been sufficiently taken into account. i am referring to the new priorities and the traditional priorities. the rapporteur, mr costa neves, will be making his comments shortly. we will have to examine whether the union's revenue is to be used efficiently and in a targeted manner within the framework of our budgetary law, the budgetary regulation and the commitments entered into. and we shall have to see very carefully whether the reforms which have been announced, but which have only partly begun, will be sufficiently implemented. we also want a rapid and fair budgetary procedure, without unnecessary finger-pointing. the council should certainly take this more seriously than in previous years. i would also like to add, in the light of the discussions and votes in the committee on budgets this week: we will also resist any attempt to curtail or limit the budgetary powers of the european parliament in any way, whether by means of a change in the budgetary system or by other miraculous means. i would also advise the commission to adopt a constructive and more parliament-friendly position on all these issues. this helps all of us who are so happy to call ourselves allies in the process of european integration. it is true: commitments of 100 billion, payments of 97.8 billion, payments well below the ceiling or 1.06 per cent of gross national product, or in other words 265 per capita, of which 121 per capita for agri-food, politics and rural areas. that sounds solid. this is a matter of stability in the global sense and certainly not of over-requirement on the part of the member states, the taxpayers or the consumers, contrary to some public emotions and one-sided views. it is also the second-to-last budget of the union of fifteen. we must remember this at this time. i will mention a few points which will be important for us. it is good that the commission is taking a more active approach to the settlement of arrears. commissioner schreyer has just mentioned a few figures. but we will also have to ensure that payments for new commitments are made quickly, so that no new mountain of arrears is created for the future. we also welcome the idea of setting up a special reserve in the agricultural sector. the idea of creating a contingency reserve in view of the uncertainties of these markets was originally the idea of the european parliament. i would add that the ad hoc procedure has increasingly proved to be a constructive procedure between the institutions in recent years. the actual figures will be available in the autumn. it is good that the commission has left room for manoeuvre in internal policy. however, questions remain about the justification for certain budgetary approaches, such as -5.3% for cultural and audiovisual, below average rates of +1.8% for the social dimension and employment and -14.5% for the labour market and technological innovation. these are examples of real counseling needs. in foreign policy, as has been mentioned earlier, the question arises as to what will happen to the democratic control and discussion of the operational expenditure of the common foreign and security policy. this includes asia -2.2%, latin america -6% and food aid -4.5%. the question is whether the necessary balance between traditional priorities and new tasks is being properly maintained, or whether this positioning can possibly be understood as a focus on europe and its neighbours. that would be too little for me in terms of foreign policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner. i would just like to remind you that parliament has said that the second tranche of the 317 posts is linked to the promise of early retirement, so that a bit more budgetary neutrality is introduced, and this must also be implemented by the institutions. i would remind you of the resolution of last spring, where we clearly stated that the second tranche also involves very clear and precise considerations on how, while maintaining the substance of the acquis communautaire, appropriate measures can be prepared at the same time to ensure the european union's ability to act in the enlargement process. i would like to recall that resolution. this also shows that we are all called upon to discuss and initiate the introduction of a realistic pre-accession and accession strategy in the administrative area as early as this year, so that we have sufficient time in advance to contribute to budgetary policy in this context. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we shall therefore be addressing these and other questions in the budgetary procedure. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i should like to thank the rapporteur very warmly for her dedicated work in the interests of members in preparing the budget for parliament. i would like to take this opportunity to highlight one or two points and examine them more closely. enlargement: of course we must prepare for enlargement. but if you think that preparing for enlargement means simply creating new planning posts, you have not seen the problem. it is a question of putting to the test all that we have come to appreciate and love in the way the european parliament has worked over the last twenty years. we are facing a great challenge if we are to master all this. it is not a question of creating new posts and filling them with officials from the acceding countries. why are there no other options on the ground? the commission is planning to work with satellites in the field of translation in the applicant countries. we must set up information offices because we have a problem with the approval of accession to the european union. that is our duty as representatives of the people. the aim is not to bring a few of them back to the meat-pots of europe here in strasbourg, in brussels, in luxembourg, but to bring people back to this european union. the best way to do that is to go there. i therefore ask that we consider carefully what really needs to be done and what can be done better by activities in the candidate countries, also to save costs. the commission is doing the right thing here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but that's only the second cheapest option. we must also be clear about this. the cheapest solution would be to build it yourself. then we have sovereignty over the layout and the facilities and we don't have to find out at the end that someone meant well to us and we have to take over now somehow. we have seen that in brussels and we have seen it here. we could be a little smarter. this would be the cheapest solution. what we do is second-lowest-cost. i would like to make that very clear. personnel policy: i am surprised at the administration, which on the one hand demands a large number of new posts, but at the same time makes concessions in the so-called non-employment rate, which is steadily rising. this saves more planks than new ones are required. how this should fit together is something we shall have to discuss very intensively. this means that there is a lot of scope for change within the european parliament's services without creating new posts all at once. i can announce on behalf of the epp group that we will be dealing with this subject in great detail in the autumn when we work on the concrete figures. i am glad that the rapporteur has also taken up our mobility options. i hope we don't have to ride our bikes in brussels. i think it's too dangerous. i think that the initiative taken by the city of strasbourg after the change of mayor is a real step forward: we can now also use the tram. maybe we can take the metro in brussels. we would have gone a step further. but as i said, i think bicycles are too dangerous. i hope we can come to some sensible solutions here. we as the epp will be carrying out a rigorous and precise examination of each budget line in the autumn - when we have the figures. i would also like to make it quite clear that if we approve the report tomorrow, that will not be a letter of approval for the reading which we will then have to make in september or october.
i have to say, madam president, there was a small incident here yesterday in connection with the debate on the situation of turkish prisoners. in this connection, the vice-president-in-office said that the committee on budgets would block posts which were necessary to set up a security service. i would like to point out, as the rapporteur responsible, that the posts requested are in the reserve with the agreement of the bureau and that to date no request has been made by the bureau to remove these posts from the reserve. i therefore reject the charge that the committee on budgets would block posts which are necessary to improve the security situation in parliament. i would point out that the bureau has been asked to request a transfer of funds. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, yesterday's incident has nothing to do with the fact that certain sites have not yet been approved. there's no connection. (applause from the centre) firstly, there is a mistake in the entry control to the chamber. the people are here. we don't need any new jobs. secondly, the security guard we have assigned to the entrances would have been responsible. it's not about the jobs either. the important thing is that we do something about security. mr ferber is right. but there's no direct connection to yesterday's incident. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, my speech relates to the minutes in so far as it is true that the german version of the minutes states that the secretary-general was instructed to report to the bureau. i have not been able to test all 11 languages, but at least the spanish version of the minutes says that it will be blocked by the committee on budgets. i would ask that the minutes be corrected as they appear in the german version. the spanish version is not correct!
i have to say, madam president, i just want to add one more thing: the dramatic thing about this situation was that one of the three people who made this circus was the same person who attacked the turkish foreign minister in the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. i would like to put that on the record again. i told your agent yesterday. there's no way a person who's been identified doesn't have a restraining order! why is there no computer with an alarm signal stored in it that would deny access to such a person? this can't happen again! i really ask that you make sure that such things are investigated! (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, let me just say this to make things clear: there was a great deal of confusion in the chamber yesterday and i do not want to go into that again at this stage. the reason, however, for not dealing with this report on the party statute was that it was said that there was no legal basis for it. in this respect, however, it is true that, as you have said, the legal basis is rule 143 of our rules of procedure. if my colleagues and i thought that the report should be referred back, we were wrong in the rule of procedure, and it is human to be wrong. the basis was article 143. that is why we can vote on this report right now. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i don't want to repeat all that i just said. it is perfectly justified to make this request here under rule 111. our group, like the other groups, not all of them, but those who have a great interest in this matter, because we believe that it serves democracy in europe, believe that we must not leave the field to the opponents of europe to postpone this report, but that we are doing our duty here. we therefore support the inclusion of this item on the agenda and the decision to vote on it again today at 12 noon. the citizens of europe expect us to assume our responsibilities here. (applause from the centre and the right)
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i regret that a number of sessions are being held at the same time, although this is a matter which concerns the whole of parliament. parties are the foundation of democracies. democracy is unthinkable without parties ideally competing for the best concept for the welfare of the state and society. all 15 member states of the european union are now governed by democratic forms of government, i.e. governments of varying party compositions. we have a right to be proud of this as citizens of democratically governed member states and as europeans. many people ask whether we need a european party statute. the european parliament is the only institution of the european union legitimated by direct free elections. the european parliament is also considered to be the cradle of european political parties. the cooperation within the political groups required increasingly close contacts between them and with the home parties. the new international party structures and european parties gradually developed. i would just like to point out that the european people's party has existed since 1976, the party of european socialists since 1992, the european liberal, democratic and reformist party since 1993 and finally the european federation of green parties since 1993. if i am correctly informed, two more european parties have been founded in the meantime, which means that we now have at least six european parties. the political landscape is not very clear. the number of parties represented in national parliaments varies widely between member states. the 626 members of the european parliament come from 130 different national parties. italy has the most parties in the european parliament with 21 parties. these different national parties have joined together in eight groups in the european parliament, in addition to the 14 non-attached parties. the european parliament has been calling for a legal basis for european political parties since the 1980s, based on these different approaches. ten years ago, the european parliament achieved a breakthrough in article 191 with the maastricht treaty, which was unanimously adopted by the governments of the member states. this article reads as follows: 'political parties at european level are important as a factor of integration in the union. they help to build european awareness and to express the political will of the citizens of the union. the treaty of nice extends article 191 to form its own legal basis. the council, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in article 251, shall lay down the rules applicable to political parties at european level, and in particular the rules on their financing. european parties thus make a valuable and not to be underestimated contribution to european integration. this is a task which no national party can do. to continue this work, european parties, for example, need premises and staff, in other words money. the european parties have so far been supported by their groups in the european parliament. but it is precisely this indirect funding by the political groups that the european court of auditors has criticised for lack of transparency and incorrect use of parliament's funds, and it will not tolerate this any longer. the budget of the european union already provides for the current financial year for line b3-500 with 7 million euro for all parties. this is not a horn as the unfortunate see it. the allocation of funds is also regulated in the regulation. the commission has thankfully submitted a proposal for a regulation in february to lay down the conditions to be met. this includes the presentation of a statute proving that a european party is committed to the principles of democracy, respect for fundamental rights and control of expenditure and revenue enshrined in the treaty on european union. this goes beyond what is required by national party laws. in addition, a european party must prove, inter alia, that it has been successful in elections in at least five member states or that it is represented in the european parliament by members from at least five member states. in addition, there are detailed rules for the implementation of the regulation and for control. european parties are prohibited from using their funds to finance national parties. this prohibition also applies to the financing of electoral campaigns. the constitutional committee has added a number of items in its deliberations, including the reference to the charter of fundamental rights, a definition of the party as a legal entity in order to be able to operate, and further proposals for control, including over donations. i would also like to thank the committee on budgets and the committee on legal affairs and internal market for the good proposals. i would like to add 40 amendments which i would like to classify in three categories: clarification of the text of the regulation, detailed rules and motions rejecting the proposal. you will understand that as rapporteur i cannot support the rejection of the regulation, because it is parliament itself that has been calling for a regulation for a long time. i cannot understand a rejection for another reason. it is suspected of seeking to prevent the transparency of party financing at european level. i cannot recommend detailed rules at this time. this regulation is a transitional solution until we are able to work out comprehensive legislation with the council when the treaty of nice comes into force. we are taking the first step today and unfortunately we can only give an opinion before the council's unanimous decision. it is in the european parliament's interest that the criticism of the european court of auditors be met as quickly as possible by a clean solution. i would like to make one further point: the council was present yesterday and i was given the president-in-office's speech on behalf of the council presidency. i would like to hand it over to the president of parliament. because here the council says it's interested in us coming to a conclusion today if possible. the council is willing to do everything possible to ensure that this dossier is concluded under the swedish presidency. i would therefore like to thank the swedish presidency for its great commitment to trying to make the work of european parties stand on its own feet by giving them legal status and transparent funding. this is a very difficult task which, in the interests of our democracy, we hope will be crowned with success. i hereby turn this speech over to the president of the parliament. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the discussion about the party statute and the outcome once we have the party statute is of far greater importance than most people probably assume. we believe that a party statute in the truest sense of the word is important for the unification of europe and for democracy in europe. how else can the will of the european citizens be expressed if not through political parties? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why this party statute is of such importance for the unification of our continent and for the democracy of our continent that it cannot be overestimated, even if it is criticized here and there in the media or here in the house by extreme positions. the last time we talked about this project - i was surprised to find that it was almost a year ago - was on 14 june 2000. we had the events in this house yesterday and i say, mr president, we must think about how we can prevent a minority which is against europe from being a hindrance to progress in the future. that is why we have to change our rules of procedure. (applause from the centre) i would like to express my appreciation for this - and it was a happy feeling for me as a democrat yesterday - that after the turmoil yesterday, four responsible groups, the christian democrats, the epp, the socialists, the liberals and the greens, immediately became aware of their responsibility for europe and looked for a way out of this situation. this was a test of democracy here in the european parliament, and i would like to thank the other groups who have followed this path with us. i would like to thank ursula schleicher very warmly for the incredibly hard work she has put into the constitutional committee, chaired by our esteemed colleague mr napolitano, to reach agreement on majority positions. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. i would also like to thank the commission, and in particular mr barnier and mr prodi, for taking up the initiative of the four groups of this parliament and putting forward this proposal. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. i would also like to expressly acknowledge the great efforts made by the swedish presidency in this area. mr. danielsson can't be here today. but he was here yesterday, and by our own inducement we cannot have the debate with him today. i regret that, and for the future we must find ways of cooperating with the council of ministers to ensure that during the whole of the week of the meeting - that is not now a criticism of the swedish presidency - the council is also represented here in the european parliament. we want more transparency: we want a clear financial control, commissioner schreyer. i am therefore surprised - and i must say this again - to have taken note of a statement by mr kuhne and mr van hulten in euronews. they did not have a majority in the committee on budgetary control and they attacked us. if a rapporteur on a committee fails to get a majority for his report, it is because of that rapporteur's own incompetence and we should not slander others who are of good will to contribute to a common result. we want transparency and we also need this party statute to bring the parties from the centre of europe closer to us. it is even more important than in our own country for democratic structures to be stabilized where democracy is just beginning to be established. i would like to make one further point: this is the legal personality of the parties. the bureau of parliament, with the help of a council of wise men, will be consulted on the basis on which it will be decided which is a genuinely european party which meets the criteria. of course, there will always be the temptation of political opportunism to say yes or no to a political party. that is why the parties must be given legal personality so that they can appeal against a decision if they believe that the right has been violated and that the right decisions have not been taken. legal certainty is the most important thing in the european union. in conclusion, i would like to say that in all the conflicts we have with each other, it is important that these conflicts are resolved peacefully. this peaceful settlement of the conflict can only be achieved on the basis of the law. it is therefore important that the way to the ecj is also made possible. i hope that this proposal put forward by ursula schleicher will find a large majority in this house. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. our group, the united european left/nordic green left, is not the group of a european left party. the parties represented in our group have different positions on the political project of european political parties. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. the direct link to the people is not through europe, but at national and regional level. the parties are anchored there, they have their members, their voters. i would ask mr poettering and mr barón crespo to reconsider their words. baron crespo has just said that those who are against parties are against democracy. i don't think that's the case. i think that parties often have a tendency to take themselves too seriously. citizens are not very sceptical about membership of political parties, for example in germany. i believe that only 3% of the population in the federal republic of germany are members of political parties. but they are still democrats. they are socially engaged in other civil society organisations, such as citizens' initiatives and non-governmental organisations. i would like to say that the european party should not be denied the right to exist. the political forces which consider such alliances to be right and necessary should be able to do so. i am also personally convinced that european parties, as stated in article 191 of the treaty, are indeed an important factor in integration. i therefore support the schleicher report and thank the commission for its initiative. in the light of the court's criticisms, i think it is necessary to establish a clear relationship. legal certainty, financial discipline and transparency are essential and i think that the proposals for the statute, in particular the requirement for full transparency of finances and of any donations, should be included in the regulation.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the council of the european union is not always a happy place for us members of parliament. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new programme. i am all the more pleased today as rapporteur that eurojust has done well. we have been on the same page and have made good progress in the fight against serious crossborder crime. i would like to thank you personally and on behalf of parliament, but especially on behalf of the people who live in the european union. when eurojust starts its work at the beginning of 2002, replacing the temporary unit for combating serious and organised crossborder crime, citizens will be delighted. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. the citizens expect this from us, and i am convinced that they are entitled to it. i would therefore like to thank the committee's colleagues who have helped to give substance and improve the council's initiative. we want to create the most effective judicial coordination body possible, working closely with institutional partners such as europol and the european judicial network. i would ask the house to approve the necessary amendments to the council's proposal. let me give just a few examples of the european parliament's handwriting in eurojust. firstly, the expanded and clearly defined catalogue of competences of eurojust is very important. it contains the basic outlines of my vision of a european prosecutor's office and goes far beyond the occasional minimal concept, which says that it is enough to protect the financial interests of the european union. the citizens would have felt that this minimal approach was a step too far. we must vigorously combat all forms of crime which people in europe today have reason to fear. the fight against crossborder fraud, corruption and crimes against the financial interests of the european community must be as effective as the fight against computer crime. money launderers should not feel as safe as environmentalists. of course, the general competence of eurojust must include all other forms of crime and offences falling within europol's police competence, including such heinous crimes as human trafficking or terrorist acts, which we have to read about in the newspapers every day. secondly, we have added data protection to the recitals. i believe that this was absolutely necessary, because the fight against international and organised crime does not override our rule of law. this means that eurojust must also be subject to strict data protection rules in all its investigative activities. in any event, the international regulations of the council of europe and the laws of the member states shall apply equally to the collection, processing and use of personal data. data protection must also be fully respected in the exchange of personal data. thirdly, we want to make eurojust as flexible as possible. that's a prerequisite for success. the direct and uncomplicated contact between the actors is particularly important. we have therefore removed national contact points from the template and removed everything that could favour bureaucratic obstacles to their growth. in conclusion, i would like to point out that the belgian government has announced that it intends to complete preparations for the final eurojust unit during its presidency of the council. with this commitment and the approval of my report by the house, which i very much ask for, europe is dealing a serious blow against international crime. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it has been one and a half years since the tampere council decided to set up eurojust as the european coordination centre for law enforcement and prosecution. this is a relatively short period of time when compared with developments in other areas of european policy. we in parliament have welcomed and accompanied this rapid development. according to europol, the establishment of eurojust is another important step towards a more effective fight against organised crossborder crime in europe. the first step in the judicial field, namely the establishment of the european judicial network, has already been a success. for example, with the help of this network, the public prosecutor's office in the german town of celle was able to organise the deployment of an undercover customs investigator in belgium within a few hours, and to carry out an observation in a third country in collaboration with public prosecutors from another country within a few hours. the commission has also been able to provide legal aid to the victims of the violence. however, problems remained, such as in the interpretation of legal aid conventions, criminal and procedural law and in the area of jurisdiction. adding to the difficulties were problems of comprehension due to natural language barriers. eurojust is designed to overcome these obstacles. eurojust has a clearing function. the officials are to draw up legal comparisons, settle bilateral disputes on the application and interpretation of legal assistance conventions, set priorities in the european fight against crime and provide timely follow-up to transnational law enforcement actions. in future, eurojust will also have to be able to prepare and transmit lists of crossborder investigations, act as a registry for information on serious crime and plan, coordinate and implement training and education. eurojust will enable national law enforcement authorities to obtain reliable legal information while overcoming language barriers and resolving transnational disputes. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs gebhardt, for the preparation of the opinion of parliament which is now before us for a vote and for the good cooperation. i would like to add one amendment to your amendments. the judicial network has been a body without a head. if we are to create eurojust as this missing head, we are also required to provide common neural fibres, without which the head and body cannot function. eurojust and the european judicial network must not stand side by side or be in loose contact, but must be linked together as one. this can be done by using the existing contact points of the european judicial network instead of the planned national contact points for eurojust. this is the only way to permanently prevent the need for two systems with the same area of responsibility to be placed side by side. this is one of the points of our proposals. i would ask the council to take them into account in its deliberations. then eurojust will really be a success and will contribute to the security of the people of europe. (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i ask that the committee's motion be put to the vote first of the three motions for resolutions under rule 130 (3) of the rules of procedure. a separate vote is required and i ask that this be taken into account. i would ask you to vote on motion no 12 first, then on the others.
i have to say, madam president, i would ask you to put amendment no 63 to the vote first. it is a compromise proposal from the pse, liberal and green groups. a new situation has arisen. now, the parties are only required to be present in a quarter of the states. it would be more logical to vote on this first and then on the commission's proposal.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have reviewed the documents and found that we have already voted on this subject, which is dealt with in amendment no 28, in amendment no 7. that's why this one's pointless. i am assuming that we can discuss this very specific problem, which is the subject of this request, again in discussions with the council at a later date.
in writing. - (de) we take seriously the current and foreseeable problems of pension policy and the changes in society. the commission's communication and my colleague mr cercas' report undoubtedly contain a number of important and positive passages. i think this is particularly true of the social security claims for women. however, given the fundamental problem of defending and renewing social security systems, there is a major disagreement with the positions of our political group. that is why we cannot approve this report. while it generally emphasizes a solidarity orientation, this tendency is clearly undermined by the concrete proposals. the majority of the european parliament fully supports the dismantling of the statutory pension scheme based on solidarity and the move to a three-pillar model for the pension system. the report does not develop any serious alternative to the anti-social framework for pension reform defined by the decisions of the lisbon and stockholm summits. i find it particularly tragic that european social democracy is making a drastic break with its entire historical tradition by supporting the partial privatization of the public pension system. for more than 100 years, social democracy has fought for the project of an indivisible and united welfare state - now it is on the front line to dismantle it. the demographic arguments put forward in this connection for an ageing of european society are not very convincing. the contribution of all types of income, which is for example practised in switzerland for the financing of pension schemes, has not even been analysed. "work longer, save more and live more modestly" has become the leitmotif of pension reform. the commission and the high level group on social protection are calling for new regulations to delay the current retirement age. the public old age insurance scheme will no longer have to guarantee the standard of living attained in old age, but will only provide for a basic pension. the maintenance of solidarity pension systems is possible under present and future conditions if social justice and not the special interests of banks, investment funds and insurance companies are the standard of policy. we therefore see no reason to cooperate in the proposed change of strategy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. algeria has a difficult history. colonialism, which has destroyed the structures that had grown up there in a particular way, was followed by a brutal war. after that brutal war, there was a socialist one-party system that eventually became corrupt. today, this country, algeria, this great and important country, faces two great challenges: on the one hand, there is a youth revolt, because algeria is a young country, and the young generation in that country covets because they feel that no one cares about them and that they have no future. it's where social and national explosives come together. the second is the islamist threat, which is being systematically fomented by certain groups. that's why we have to take care of this country, but very carefully. president bouteflika has taken steps towards opening up. he has taken steps towards reform. a few weeks ago he held a great feast in honour of st augustine, which we might consider symbolic. but he wanted to make it clear that st. augustine had his roots in what is now algeria. he also wanted to tell his people that they are culturally linked as algerians to europe and also to the christian world as an islamic country. these are the marks of the opening. they're important. but of course we cannot stand still in the face of such a symbolic policy, and we need substantial reforms. this includes freedom of the press, the rule of law, but also tolerance towards different peoples and ethnic groups. it is a tradition that the berbers want to maintain their own individuality and that they pay attention to their independence in kabyley. this third major kabyle uprising in history is a first-rate warning sign, because it is being carried by young people who do not feel integrated into this state. this is why careful reforms, preserving diversity, preserving freedom and strengthening the rule of law are needed. but we must also recognize that there are efforts and efforts that we must support through dialogue and non-custodial behaviour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we're talking about an incident at a mosque today. this mosque was not destroyed in any war. this mosque was in banja luka, where there was no war. it was razed in 1993. its foundations were removed, and a parking lot was set up. this mosque was destroyed along with hundreds of other muslim and catholic places of worship. they were destroyed on the orders of karadjic and his minions. not only were these places of worship destroyed, but hundreds of thousands of muslims and croats were forced to flee when there was no war in the region, namely from 1991 to 1995. the dayton agreement has been in force since the end of 1995, as mr swoboda has said. we didn't love him. he may have ended the war, but he has not yet brought peace. six years have passed and we have to say that he has not kept his promise, which he did not make. he has divided the country into two ethnic parts, one purely serbian and the other croat-bosniak. this constellation was very uninhabitable. it means we've created a work of art. do we expect the politicians down there who have no experience to live with that? it's very difficult. but we're not helping them in every way. too few people have returned. hundreds of thousands were displaced. the european union has not yet been able to take action on the situation in bosnia. i mean, we have to appeal to everybody to do something here. the republika srpska is the last stop in bosnia-herzegovina for the return of refugees, which is what apparently led to the foundation stone being laid ten days ago in banja luka for this ancient mosque, and eight days earlier in trebinje for the foundation stone of another mosque, where the hardliners of the sds, the serbian nationalists, found followers again who disrupted the celebrations, set fire to buses and threatened the lives of the participants. the president of the republika srpska and his government, including the prime minister, must make a serious effort to punish this incident and to ensure a climate of peaceful coexistence, as was the norm in this region until 1991. i think we should not shy away from attaching conditions to our financial aid. we have always told mr dodik, the predecessor of the current prime minister, that we would support him financially if he helped us return. we have supported him in his government work, but he has not allowed any displaced persons to return. we have a new government now. we just have to be careful. it's our taxpayers' money. we must ensure that it is used for the purposes of the international community and the european union. the refugees who want to return must be able to return. the same applies, of course, to the neighbouring region of croatia. there is a law that no longer allows the return of property to the serbs who fled there. many serbs do not want to return. but then at least they should be given back their property and help to make it possible for them to return to croatia or from croatia. we have also raised other issues in our resolution. the croatian muslim federation also has croatian hardliners who are disturbing coexistence and seeking to achieve secession from bosnia-herzegovina through secessionist efforts. they'll never make it. the moderate forces are stronger. we must help these forces. but if we as an international community have a little bit of power there, we should not use it arbitrarily to change an electoral law at the expense of an ethnic group. because that's what gives these hardliners opportunities to produce and to find followers. i know they regret doing it. but you have to say it once so it doesn't happen again. i hope that we will do everything within our cards aid programme to enable the refugees to return to the whole region. this is the best thing we can do for peaceful coexistence in bosnia-herzegovina! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. bosnia-herzegovina will either be a state of three peoples or it will no longer exist. this country will only survive if, at least in the medium term, all three peoples want to live in this state too. that sounds simple, but it's a fact that we very often suppress. so i think it's time to not only confront the hardliners of all nationalities, but to ask ourselves, self-critically, what did we do wrong? i think doris pack has shown us the right way here. dayton was a step toward non-war. only slowly must one try to take a step towards peace. a step towards peace means that ultimately a tripartite federation must be achieved, in which all three peoples find themselves on an equal footing. i do not want to justify the croatian extremists in mostar, but they are of course also gaining support because they do not realise that as an ethnic group they are not entitled to the same rights as the republika srpska. we have a huge problem here, and we have to deal with it because this is not a balanced, not a symmetrical, but an asymmetrical federation. the second point we must make very clear is that of the return of refugees, which doris pack has already mentioned. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is a great deal of bias in the way the people who are sent there are treated. in the long run, the peoples of this region will only be willing to cooperate with the court if they feel that the offenders of all three nations will be equally extradited and also convicted. i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this matter, and i hope that the commission will be able to take the initiative in this matter. i thank mr swoboda for once speaking quite openly, and we must also say clearly here, that unfortunately president kostunica also seems to be encouraging certain forces in republika srpska to adopt a nationalist policy. i also believe that we must make it quite clear to belgrade that our aid to belgrade is also linked to the fact that there must be no such encouragement of nationalist forces in the republika srpska. so there must be a conditioning of our aid not only to bosnia-herzegovina but also to serbia and yugoslavia, as we have done very clearly in the case of croatia. in the case of yugoslavia, we are in danger of losing a little bit of our standards in the euphoria over the fall of milosevic, which we of course welcome. unfortunately, it also distorts the weights of god in space! (applause from the centre)
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission shares parliament's horror and disgust at the events in trebinje and banja luka. my colleague chris patten, who is in charge, is in bosnia this afternoon. in a statement, he condemned these acts of violence and called on the authorities of republika srpska to find the perpetrators and bring them to justice. as regards the so-called croatian self-government within the federation of bosnia-herzegovina, the commission strongly supports the decision of the high representative to exclude mr jelavic from the presidency of bosnia-herzegovina and his call on the bosnian croats to support the building of a stable multiethnic state. i must say clearly that the recent incidents do not contribute in any way to promoting the integration of bosnia and herzegovina into european structures or to improving the country's international image, especially with donors. on the contrary! the events are making it even more difficult to get the funds into the country that bosnia so badly needs and on which it continues to depend. the european union will not withdraw from bosnia and herzegovina. we will continue our efforts to rebuild the country and to provide assistance to the many citizens who long for a life of peace. the country's internal problems cannot be solved simply by concluding a stabilisation and association agreement or by the prospect of rapprochement with the european union. the eu's role in the process of integration is to ensure that the country is able to fulfil its obligations under the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union. only after such a transformation process would integration have an added benefit in terms of stability, security and economic development. the european union considers that the progress made by bosnia and herzegovina in the stabilisation and association process is a test of the country's readiness to make the required changes. we expect progress in particular in the implementation of the specific measures agreed a year ago in the framework of the so-called road map, which include the return of refugees. of the 18 measures, only 5 have been fully implemented so far. another 9 have been partially implemented, while a total of 4 have not yet been started at all. only after all the measures have been completed can the next stage of the process, the feasibility study, be initiated. the commission will continue to focus its assistance under the cards programme on the target groups that promote the return of refugees and the reconciliation process. of the total of eur 105.3 million in aid to bosnia and herzegovina in 2001, eur 37.3 million - by far the largest single item - is for the return of refugees to bosnia and herzegovina. the eu is also committed to supporting the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which aims to promote the rights of persons with disabilities and to promote the rights of persons with disabilities. as requested here, the assistance under cards is conditional. the republic of srpska has also received less funding in this area, as the return of refugees has been more hampered in the republic of srpska than in the federation of bosnia and herzegovina. when deciding whether to re-direct or withdraw aid, it is important to take into account that the cards programme supports projects of structural importance and preferred by the eu, such as the return of refugees, human rights institutions, judicial reform and the development of free media. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unlike cards, the commission's macro-financial assistance is not conditional. the assistance will be provided under a coherent macroeconomic programme agreed by the authorities and supported by the international financial institutions. however, given the particular circumstances in bosnia and herzegovina, the commission shall endeavour to ensure that the overall policy environment, including the political reality on the ground, is as favourable as possible and that the macro-financial assistance measures are consistent with other community measures.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i would just like to ask you, following your remarks about what is not working in bosnia-herzegovina, whether it is true that bosnia-herzegovina will become a member of the council of europe at the next or next council of europe meeting. i would like to ask whether that is really true and whether we can reach out to all 15 member states before the conditions they have described are met.
the commission. - mr president, i am sorry to hear that. but my answer will be, unfortunately, that i cannot answer. the commission, as you know, is not a member of the council of europe. i must ask you to address this question to the council, which coordinates the position of the fifteen in the council of europe. i'd be happy to help you with that. (cheers and applause)
- ladies and gentlemen, we have just witnessed a very rare event: a commissioner does not know the answer. but of course it's human and acceptable.
- we've had this problem before on thursdays. the agenda is set, and then it turns out that the debates go faster or slower. we still have a lot of room for improvement. as for what will happen today, we do not know at all, because if we have many speeches like yours, it may last until 5.30. then we have three more reports to discuss. there will be no break between 5.30 and 6.00 p.m. but a debate on three reports.
- the following motions for resolutions are requested for joint debate: b5-0360/2001 by mr lucas, mr rod, mr maes and mr schörling, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on ethiopia; - b5-0363/2001 by mr sauquillo pérez del arco and mr carlotti, on behalf of the pse group, on the police repression of students in ethiopia; - b5-0376/2001 by mr van den bos, on behalf of the eldr group, on human rights violations in ethiopia; - b5-0386/2001 by mr vinci and mr korakas, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the police crackdown on students in ethiopia; - b5-0396/2001 by mr muscardini, on behalf of the uen group, on the situation in ethiopia; b5-0358/2001 by mr maccormick, mr rod and mr isler béguin, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on the human rights situation in cameroon; - b5-0371/2001 by mr bowis, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in cameroon; - b5-0377/2001 by mr dybkjær and mr van den bos, on behalf of the eldr group, on human rights violations in cameroon; - b5-0387/2001 by mr sylla and mr patakis, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on human rights in cameroon; - b5-0397/2001 by mr carlotti and mr van den berg, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the disappearance of persons in cameroon; freedom of the press in the world - b5-0356/2001 by mr wuori, mr frassoni, mr schroedter and mr maes, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on freedom of the press in the world; - b5-0364/2001 by mr van den berg, mr swoboda and mr imbeni, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on freedom of the press in the world; - b5-0367/2001 by mr morillon, mr lamassoure, mr bayrou, mr de sarnez, mr salafranca sánchez-neyra and mr dimitrakopoulos, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on freedom of the press in the world; - b5-0378/2001 by mr malmström and mr haarder, on behalf of the eldr group, on freedom of the press in the world; - b5-0388/2001 by mr wurtz, mr di lello finuoli, mr seppänen and mr alavanos, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on freedom of the press in the world; - b5-0395/2001 by mr muscardini and mr segni, on behalf of the uen group, on freedom of the press in the world. the european union
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. freedom of the press and freedom of expression are at the heart of democracy. people who have lived in totalitarian systems know how important it is to get hold of this heart in all its significance and grandeur within a state. and so they also know that the manipulation of the press is an attack on democracy, which means that where the press is equalised and manipulated or where it loses its political plurality because it becomes a corporate monopoly, that's where democracy is most at risk. we must therefore not only put our finger on the wound of the third countries, the countries in transition, in order to promote democratic development there by promoting freedom of the press, but we must also look at ourselves. i think it is particularly important that we ask ourselves whether an election can be called democratic when a large proportion of the television channels are on the same channel. we have to ask ourselves whether we can do the same here. i think that applies to russia as much as to the member countries of the european union. i think it is important that we include freedom of the press as an indicator in the human rights report. freedom of the press must become part of the way we assess the clauses in the partnership and cooperation agreement, the way we assess how close the relations with ukraine, with russia will be, but also the way we assess how democracy develops in our states. (applause from the centre)
the commission. i would like to make a brief comment on ethiopia. the commission welcomes the fact that this issue has been raised here. on 26 april the commission took part, on behalf of the union, in a demarche with the ethiopian government. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. it also deplored the violent actions of the security forces. the demarche has called on the government to fully clarify the recent incidents through a full and impartial investigation. the commission also welcomes the fact that the european union is continuing to work towards the establishment of a european union-wide peace process. it expects the two governments to guarantee the un mission full freedom of movement, to participate actively in mine clearance operations, to release all prisoners of war and internees and to initiate the demobilization of a substantial part of their armed forces. the eu has supported the efforts of the un mission by continuously monitoring developments in the two countries and maintaining close contacts with all parties involved. it has made statements encouraging the process and expressing its concerns where appropriate . the commission considers this to be the best way of supporting the efforts of the un. the commission expressly welcomes the initiative of the religious leaders to visit the areas on both sides of the border and to initiate a process of reconciliation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. at the present time, the commission considers that a formal summit organized by the international community is premature. as regards the situation in cameroon, i would like to say that the commission is closely following the human rights situation in cameroon and is aware that the country has begun to democratize its society and its institutions. we are also seeing positive developments in the field of human rights and civil liberties. but it is clear that the various actors do not have sufficient knowledge of and respect for these new rights and freedoms. cameroon has ratified the convention against torture and was the subject of a report by the committee against torture submitted in november 2000. in addition, a national committee on human rights and fundamental freedoms has been set up in cameroon, albeit with limited functions. in addition, a regional centre for the promotion of human rights has been set up in cooperation with the united nations. the european community has supported cameroon under the lomé convention by allocating eur 6 million for institutional reform in the field of the rule of law, democratization and respect for human rights. in addition, a programme of assistance in the field of the organisation of the criminal justice system in cameroon was examined. a special allocation from the provisional financial envelope of the 9th european development fund will support judicial reform and the strengthening of good governance in coordination with the bretton woods institutions. specific funding from the 9th european development fund will also be provided to support non-state actors, in particular associations and non-governmental organisations active in the fields of governance, promotion of human rights and strengthening the rule of law. in this context, the commission is pursuing a positive approach based on dialogue, in line with the cotonou agreement. it therefore considers that there is no justification for initiating consultations under article 96 of the cotonou agreement. the situation will be monitored on the ground together with the member states. the government has set up a commission of inquiry, whose findings will be carefully analysed by the commission and the member states. on the last point of this human rights debate, i would like to say that there can be no doubt that freedom of expression and freedom of the press are absolutely constitutive of a democratic society and that freedom of the press and freedom of expression can only be exercised if there is media diversity. where this is not the case, there is either no democracy at all or democracy is in danger. the threats to freedom of the press and of expression throughout the world are one of the saddest chapters in our international work. like parliament, the commission takes the widespread persecution and suppression of freedom of expression and the press very seriously. it starts with the media situation, as some members of this house have described it in relation to russia, and ends with terrorist attacks on journalists, as we heard yesterday from the basque country. i am happy to inform the house, however, that the basque journalist landaburu, the younger brother of the commission's director-general for enlargement, was not a victim of this attack. he's badly injured, but thank god he'll live. but it's a very clear sign that terrorism is targeting journalists, because it's precisely the freedom of the media and freedom of expression that is rightly considered by all extremist organizations around the world as their most serious threat. let me briefly mention that the eu has taken a position on freedom of expression, freedom of religion and freedom of belief at the 57th session of the un commission on human rights. the eu not only expresses its views on the international stage, but also provides practical assistance from the community budget. the european initiative for democracy and human rights, for example, provides substantial funding to support independent media around the world. the assistance ranges from training for journalists to media monitoring. the 2000 budget allocated over eur 5 million to projects concerning freedom of expression, freedom of the media and the protection and training of journalists. a major project in asia and africa, carried out in cooperation with reporters without borders, addresses some of the main risks faced by journalists as identified in parliament's resolutions. the project will provide for a situation assessment on the situation of imprisoned journalists, financial support for such journalists and their families, and information and awareness-raising campaigns. the support under the european initiative will be continued. the call for proposals of january 2001 explicitly mentions freedom of expression as one of the priorities. (applause from the centre)
- thank you very much, commissioner verheugen! the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 6.30 p.m.
- the following motions for resolutions are requested for joint debate: - b5-0359/2001 by mr maes, mr lucas, mr rod and mr schörling, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on the trafficking of children; - b5-0365/2001 by mr van den berg, mr sauquillo pérez del arco and mr carlotti, on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists, on forced labour of african children; - b5-0372/2001 by mr johan van hecke, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the trafficking of children (benin boat); - b5-0379/2001 by mrs thors, on behalf of the eldr group, on child slaves in africa; b5-0389/2001 by mr sylla, mr miranda, mr herman schmid, mr morgantini, mr frahm, mr alavanos and mr alyssandrakis, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the forced labour of african children; - b5-0393/2001 by mr andrews, mr muscardini and mr segni, on behalf of the uen group, on forced child labour in africa.
- ladies and gentlemen of the audience, please don't clap. it is not the custom in this house, although it is very nice of you to support mrs maes's speech in this way. i ask you to respect the rules of the democratic game of europe. we are all europeans !
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the commission, like the european parliament, is deeply concerned about the problem of child trafficking in west and central africa. according to unicef, more than 200,000 children are victims of cross-border trafficking in west and central africa. we call on the governments of these countries to do everything in their power to combat and punish the criminal practice of trafficking in children. the commission's strategy to combat child trafficking and child labour is based mainly on its measures to reduce poverty in africa. this is the main objective of the cotonou partnership agreement. i would also like to emphasize that the commission is pursuing a strategy to promote food security and rural development in african countries, which also focuses on the situation of children and women in the achievement of sustainable rural development. in parallel, the commission is financing measures which directly contribute to solving this problem. more than €1.2 million was provided to promote children's rights and protect children from violence and exploitation in gabon, benin, togo and nigeria. the commission is also financing a specific project in this field in benin. the aim is to establish a so-called 'brigade for the protection of minors', to promote more effective law enforcement and to raise public awareness of the issue. the protection and promotion of children's rights is a priority of the european initiative for democracy and human rights in 2001. a wide range of other measures are being taken by the relevant international organisations, in particular unicef and the international labour organisation (ilo). a recent positive sign is the prospect of further countries ratifying ilo convention no. 182 on the worst forms of child labour. benin ratified the convention last monday, i.e. on 14 may, and côte d'ivoire is expected to do so by the end of this month. the commission strongly supports these initiatives. the commission's communication on human rights, adopted on 8 may 2001, developed concepts for political dialogue with partner countries. in particular, it was agreed that the talks should examine how to achieve the ratification and effective implementation of fundamental human rights instruments and other international agreements based on these rights. as regards trade agreements, the european union is currently seeking support from its trading partners to ensure that these basic labour standards are respected, including in relation to child labour. the commission considers that additional trade preferences under the generalised system of preferences should be considered for countries which effectively implement these standards.
- thank you very much, commissioner verheugen! the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 6.30 p.m. i have a message for you. as has been suggested, our services are trying to move the debate on the di lello finuoli report forward to 5.10 p.m. they inform the speakers and the rapporteur by telephone so that we can make better use of the time we have.
- doc. b5-0381/2001 by mr le pen, mr de gaulle, mr gollnisch, mr lang and mr martinez, on behalf of the tdi group, on the floods in the french department of the somme; - b5-0382/2001 by mr berès and mr ferreira, on behalf of the pse group, on the floods in france; - b5-0383/2001 by mr grossetête, mr morillon, mr lamassoure and mr fourtou, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the floods in the somme (france); - b5-0390/2001 by mr ainardi and mr alyssandrakis, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the floods in france; - b5-0391/2001 by mr butel, on behalf of the edd group, on the floods in the somme; - b5-0392/2001 by mr marchiani, on behalf of the uen group, on the floods in france.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the commission thanks the member for his sympathy with the floods in france. the commission regrets the problems and damage caused by the storms, which were particularly severe in the department of somme in the picardy region. the commission expressed its readiness to use all the measures at its disposal to enable the affected areas to recover and restore their economic viability. these are measures under regional policy, agricultural policy, rural development policy and state aid policy. under regional and rural policy, a large part of the department concerned is eligible for objective 2 of the structural funds for the 2000-2006 programming period. the programme for the picardy region, which has a community contribution of chf 1.7 billion for the period 2000-06, already includes measures to deal with natural disasters. the commission is awaiting proposals from the french authorities and invites them to submit these proposals so that the funds provided for in the programme can be used for the economic rehabilitation of the areas concerned. as far as agricultural policy is concerned, the commission has already taken the initiative to allow producers a great deal of flexibility as regards the eligibility of aid for large-scale farming and for set-aside. the commission also approved certain interpretations of the current legislation by the french authorities. the commission has also taken measures to extend the sowing season beyond 15 june. as regards state aid to the regions concerned, the commission will do everything in its power to ensure that notifications and authorizations of any state aid to remedy the damage caused are dealt with promptly, in compliance with the legal provisions. some members of the house have raised the question of emergency aid for families in the affected areas. the commission regrets that it is not in a position to comply with this request. as you know, there has been no dedicated budget line in the european union budget for disasters and emergency aid in the member states for a number of years, and i do not think that parliament wanted to ask the commission to make payments for which it is not legally empowered. in view of the fact that there are other possibilities for community aid for this type of disaster today, the commission considers that it would be premature to make such a proposal again at this time, given the financial and human resources currently available to it.
- thank you very much, commissioner verheugen! the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m. i thank all the colleagues concerned, in particular the rapporteur and the speakers, for being so flexible in coming earlier than planned, i.e. before 5.30 p.m., so that we can make better use of the time we have.
- the next item is the report (a5-0145/2001) by mr di lello finuoli, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on the mutual recognition of final decisions in criminal matters.
- mr rapporteur, thank you very much for this introduction to the delicate subject of mutual recognition of final decisions in criminal matters. it may be of interest to the house that in a survey in my country a large majority of citizens expressed their support for the introduction of mutual recognition in this area. mr posselt, you will note that the parliament's administration has today responded in a flexible manner to your repeated request that the plenary should not have to be adjourned. as a result of this decision, you have the floor again!
, acting on behalf of the draftsman of the opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs and internal market. the commission is not first of all, i would like to say that i am very pleased with this decision, even though i am a victim of this decision in this case. i am here today on behalf of mr wuermeling, who drew up the opinion for the legal affairs committee, in which he said that it was important to make progress on the recognition of final judgments in criminal matters. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. the commission should, above all, once again make a very precise statement of the disadvantages which have arisen so far because this system has not yet been developed as required in the commission's communication. we must see that this is a very delicate matter. we have no uniform criminal law in europe. i personally think that we will never have such a uniform criminal law. this is not necessarily a bad thing, because even the united states of america, which is much more centralised than we imagine the european union itself in its final stage of development, has a very different criminal law. there are states that have the death penalty and there are states that don't. in this respect, the eu is even more unified. we wouldn't have room for anyone who knows the death penalty. england and scotland also have very different criminal laws and legal traditions. this means that we must not only be very careful in our efforts to achieve uniformity and harmonization while respecting diversity, but also, of course, be very careful in the recognition of final judgments in criminal matters. we talk a lot about a european community of values, but what is more difficult is that this european community of values is in fact developing apart. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. we have therefore even developed divergences in important areas which are also relevant to criminal law. in this respect, such mutual recognition is becoming increasingly difficult. this is a question which also has to do with the different value systems and the different legal cultures. we welcome progress in this area, but we are very sceptical and simply see the problem of divergence. we therefore urge the commission to be careful here, to give precise definitions and simply to say again where the need for uniformity lies and where the disadvantages of the existing system are to be found. of course, we know that there are significant problems today. but the cases i have mentioned - and i could also use the example of drug policy - show that the european legal systems, in matters of criminal law, are drifting apart rather than moving towards each other in particularly sensitive and publicly hotly contested matters. this shows how important it is to continue our work in the area of freedom, security and justice. but we should concentrate on those issues which are really of european interest and on those where there is also real agreement between the member states as regards criminal law standards.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. my own safety regulations are clearly not being followed today. i have to talk all the time. the recent and ongoing wave of announcements by many large companies of plant closures or restructuring measures has reached a worrying level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed. this reduction in jobs affects not only the workers themselves but also their families and, in some cases, whole regions, if they depend on one or two main employers. since many of the recent restructuring announcements were made at european level, there is an urgent need for community action. a comprehensive community approach must combine, where appropriate, innovative measures with a review of existing instruments. i shall confine myself to the legal aspects. firstly, the rapid adoption of new legislation and the updating of existing legislation. as regards the framework directive on information and consultation, i would say that the commission will be finalising its amended proposal in the coming days to establish a general framework for the information and consultation of workers, so as to enable it to be adopted quickly by the council. the commission will press for the council to adopt the directive on 11 june. we hope that we can reach a consensus. but if necessary, we will try to reach a political agreement by qualified majority. we cannot wait forever, especially in the present climate of uncertainty created by the restructuring plans of many companies. in this context, i would like to emphasize once again a crucial element of the commission's proposal, namely the question of sanctions. i know that parliament strongly supports this approach and shares the commission's satisfaction with the certain progress recently made in this sensitive area. with the support of parliament and the strong political will of the council, we can complete this process by the end of the year, and that will be a decisive step forward. the commission has already made a number of proposals. on the other hand, at the end of last year we had achieved another important and long-awaited result: the statute of the european company with the rules on employee participation. one of the most outstanding positive elements of the statute is the fact that it contains sophisticated provisions on employee participation, reflecting the progressive approach also taken up in the proposal on information and consultation at national level. this will certainly contribute to a better integration of the social dimension in corporate restructuring in europe. i am confident that the european parliament will do its utmost to ensure that this important piece of legislation can be adopted immediately after the summer break. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the commission will review the directive on european works councils in 2002. the commission will continue to review the practical implementation of the directive in the course of the year. globalisation and industrial change bring with them social problems. however, they can also be a source of prosperity for people and regions if change is designed and managed accordingly. for governments and the community, the main concern is to strike a balance between promoting business innovation and growth on the one hand and preparing people for change and protective measures if necessary on the other. that is why my colleague, mrs diamantopoulou, announced a business restructuring checklist last week. this checklist concerns existing policy instruments, namely legislation, monitoring procedures, financial assistance and best practices. governments and businesses must make the best use of these tools or create new ones. dialogue, transparency, appropriate worker participation, anticipation, risk prevention and employability development are the key elements of a european response to this challenge. let us do our utmost to develop those instruments, legislative or otherwise, which are conducive to the realization of our ideas. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already done so. i thank the commission on behalf of the epp for these statements, also for the remark that the framework directive will be coming soon, as well as the european company. i would also like to draw attention to the european works council project, which our group has fully supported. i think the commissioner is right to criticise the present behaviour of the companies. the commission's report on the european works councils, which we are currently discussing in the social affairs committee - we have held a hearing on the subject - is very interesting. it is shown that works councils have generally fulfilled their tasks. we found it interesting that the more informed and involved employees are, the more efficiently restructuring that is occasionally necessary can be carried out. in countries with a high degree of participation, such as germany, there are fewer disputes and few strikes in connection with structural changes in the economy. the spirit of cooperation and partnership which we as a parliament have instilled in several parts of the directive requires that company closures and relocations should not take place in the form of raids, but only after the workers have been informed and consulted in a timely and comprehensive manner. this was often ignored. ensuring timely information and consultation before company decisions are taken is a very important aspect to be taken into account in this amendment. i hope that the commission will take an initiative this year, at least in the form of informing and involving the social partners. i agree with you, commissioner, that the existing rules must be tightened up. it is not enough to impose sanctions at national level alone, but we need action at european level too. as you rightly pointed out, we need the framework directive because many of the restructuring has been done at national level only and not at transnational level. this includes the directives on mass redundancies and the safeguarding of employees' rights in the event of company transfers. i would ask you, commissioner, are there any plans to amend these two directives? i think that the europe of the future is also a workers' europe. the right to information, consultation and participation is a civil right within the meaning of the european charter of fundamental rights.
i have to say, madam president, i want to speak on the same subject. the problem with the renewal of these enfopol plans is that they go far beyond what was planned three years ago. so it's not just traffic data and content data -- the header of an email and the content -- that's being monitored, but it's going to be much, much more detail that's being monitored, all the way to credit card details, ip ports, where it's about monitoring the computer through and through. this means that there is nothing left in the communication that is not monitored. this was not even a real document in the council. we have no way of getting the information! the decision itself has not yet been taken, apparently due to a formal error. but it can be struck at any time, and it does not require another meeting. i repeat the request: we need to have a discussion on this. we now have an echelon investigation committee, and we are upset that the nsa and other intelligence agencies are violating fundamental rights. what is happening is that within the eu something much worse is being planned, namely that everything can really be monitored! (applause from the green group)
- madam president! - what is it? i too would like to congratulate the commissioner and the commission on this proposal. but if i understand you correctly, we now have much less specific programmes in the sixth research framework programme than in the fifth, and i would like to ask you why. what are the reasons? we have therefore less specific programmes for sectoral issues. we have had one for biotechnology, one for energy, one for the environment, and so on. all of this will be brought together under one roof in the future. do you not also fear that this will reduce the visibility of the research framework programme? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. my question is: can you give us the reasons why you have fewer specific programmes this time than last time?
mr president, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the effects of the environment on health, and if so, what is the commissioner's position on this? studies of this kind are planned. there have been some, but you are right that they are prevention issues. environmental health risks - you will see this in the document - are discussed on the page on the priority 'food safety and health risks'. as regards the resources which europe is devoting to research, i think i can say everywhere that a greater overall effort is essential. this was the message of the communication on the european research area - we spend only 1.9% of our gdp, the us 2.7% and japan 3.1% i think there has been a great deal of awareness after the lisbon summit and also in stockholm. the european research area is a subject which is regularly discussed by heads of state. i was pleased to read that mr jospin, in his speech on the european union, spoke of the need for a european research area, but the will of the member states is indispensable. they need to step up their efforts. that is why the question of benchmarking, which we are carrying out, of comparisons between research efforts, and of developing the means of catalysing this research by creating integrated projects, by structuring the european space, by providing support from the commission to the pooling of national programmes, must create a dynamic in favour of this research. in the same way, you are quite right to point out a crucial problem at european level, namely the problem of young researchers. it is not enough to say that the average age of european researchers is higher than the average age of the european population. this means that there is a problem, that there has been no recruitment and promotion of scientific research in our member states. overall, there has been a specific problem in the last 20 years, and so there is, for the time being, a need to attract young people to research careers and to promote them. it is clear that in a number of member states there is something, i may say very bluntly, a little scandalous about the status given to young researchers in terms of social and financial reward. so this is a problem that needs to be tackled all over europe, and i think we can provide some comparative elements for each member state to take the problem into their own hands, and i can say that there is now awareness. everyone knows that the knowledge society is the engine of the economy for years to come. the lisbon summit recognised that 25 to 50% is linked to knowledge and therefore to research and innovation. there is a positive dynamic here which we are also trying to spread as far as possible. the framework programme must play a role in raising awareness of this issue.
- madam president, this is commissioner busquin. they call for greater networking of research activities at european level on the one hand, and at national, regional and international level on the other. there is a very typical example in my region, namely the cooperation between the german cancer research centre in heidelberg and the transuran institute in karlsruhe. the question is: should we not in future introduce a european networking week, in which good examples are set, and will not networking also require financial assistance from the european union, which could support particularly successful joint research ventures?
adopted by the commission on 27 june. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the decision to the period from 1 january 1999 to 31 december 2000. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. in the field of foreign and security policy, we see the shortcomings of the nice results and of the treaty as a whole. the european union is strong wherever the monnet method is applied. the european union is weak wherever the intergovernmental method is used. we see this in the field of foreign and security policy, with the dual structures that impede our ability to act. we also see it, for example, in the use of enhanced cooperation where it may not be needed. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. we should remember why the nice conference took place. it should strengthen the european union's capacity for action in the enlargement process, while reducing the democratic deficit. in both areas, the results were not satisfactory and the decision-making structures even deteriorated. for this reason, we must recognize that the current method no longer works. i have had the honour of representing parliament twice - in amsterdam and nice - and i know that this way of preparing the intergovernmental conference does not bring us the progress we need. this can only be the convention in which the national parliaments and the european parliament, together with the commission and the governments, are adequately involved. madam president, the open forum is not an alternative to the convention. it can serve as a preparatory measure, but the convention composed of parliamentarians can channel this open forum, the public debate, to present to you as heads of state or government a result which will be the basis for your negotiations. that is why it is a building on the public process and not an alternative to the public process. we must ensure that the citizens of this europe are given their rights. that is why the charter must be made binding. we must ensure that this european union can decide where it has competence, so that acceptance is found for decisionmaking. we must make this european union democratic. that is why there must be codecision on all legislative matters, including agricultural policy. we must create transparency so that the citizen knows who is responsible for a wrong decision. that is why the council, as legislator, must meet in public. these are the decisive measures which we must push through at this igc! (applause from the centre) the european parliament has a duty to act. it is not enough, as mr jospin has proposed, to bring a chinese people's congress to europe, where you have big debates once a year. no, we want to strengthen the national parliaments at home so that they can control their national governments as members of the council. this must be the appropriate starting point! (applause from the centre) we are now in a situation where the face and size of europe will be shaped in the next two and a half years. we are shaping the face by conducting this constitutional debate in a sensible way and bringing it to a conclusion and by creating enlargement - both together. i hope we have the strength and not the vanity of some governments who think they have to stay on the status quo to prevent progress! that is why the convention should be given the chance to give europe's elected representatives, the european parliament and the national parliaments a chance to shape that face! (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the advisory committee on fisheries . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i am representing the fisheries policy area. but it is one of the few european policies which fall within the exclusive competence of the community. the result is that all the brussels rules in this sector directly affect the citizen of the union. the democratic deficit, which is rightly lamented, is all the more evident to all concerned. we are still denied real participation in the legislative process as the only institution legitimized by popular vote. i am referring to the codecision procedure, which, contrary to our demands, has still not been opened up for fisheries policy. the future of european fisheries after 2003 is being rewritten. i am therefore particularly concerned to reiterate, indeed to reaffirm, our pre-nice position today in the post-nice phase. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we want to be really involved in defining the most important issues. we therefore strongly urge the inclusion of the codecision rules in articles 32 to 38 of the ec treaty and ask for your support! i would also like to point out that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we call for the ep's assent to be compulsory on international agreements negotiated by the commission, which are also of budgetary importance! in conclusion, we want a separate title in the ec treaty, and that, mr elmar, in addition to the agricultural policy. it's just consistency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. (applause from the centre)
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank mr méndez de vigo and mr seguro for their excellent reports. our group believes that it is important that we reach agreement on fundamental questions between the groups, because we, the european parliament, must be the guarantor of a community europe. that is why we have a shared responsibility. that is why it was good that the two colleagues submitted a joint report. the contribution of mr méndez de vigo and mr seguro also contributes to good neighbourly relations, because partners who are geographically very close often have difficulties with each other. this was also a good spanish-portuguese contribution to the development of europe, another positive effect. i welcome the presence of the president of the council here today. the commission is always pleased to have you here. madam president, we recognize that. we've said something critical before. i hope that your positive example of being here today will also be an example for future presidencies. we expect the council of ministers to be much more present in the european parliament and we are going to reach an agreement on this! as for nice, many have said that we are not satisfied with nice. the decision-making procedure in the council is more complicated than before. there is no substantial extension of majority voting in the council. first of all, there is - and this is a very critical point for us - no substantial extension of the european parliament's co-decision with the council of ministers. we are a little surprised that the french prime minister, in his speech, which of course has some positive aspects, does not in any way speak of an extension of the powers of the european parliament, but merely says, and i quote: 'the powers of the strasbourg assembly should be defined more clearly'. we expect the prime minister of a great country to advocate greater democracy in europe, greater powers for the european parliament! (applause from the centre) what we need - mr brok has just mentioned this - is clear responsibilities for parliamentary responsibility. the european parliament is the parliamentary controller at european level vis-à-vis the commission and is a legislator on an equal footing with the council of ministers. the task of national parliaments is to exercise greater control over their own governments. we do not want a congress of national representatives, but we want the european parliament to assume its responsibilities in europe and our national colleagues at the national level! (applause from the centre) the second and third pillars will remain in place after nice. we have to correct that. this is intergovernmental cooperation, if we look to the future. intergovernmental cooperation not only means that we are not able to act, but intergovernmental cooperation also means that there is no democratic parliamentary control and no review by the european court of justice. intergovernmental cooperation is therefore not only a lack of capacity to act, but also a violation of our values of democracy and the rule of law. that's why we have to change it for the future! (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals. you've done some things in your presidency. there will be other times when we will have to appreciate this, for example, in terms of transparency and similar issues. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we do not expect that in gothenburg an obstacle will be put in the way of the decision in laeken on a convention, but we expect that gothenburg will point the way to good decisions in laeken so that we can then move towards the european future on the basis of a convention. madam president, i'm not going to give you a gift, but it's not because i have a problem with the color red. the color itself is beautiful. the content, when used politically, is sometimes not so acceptable. you yourself spoke of a red cloth, which is not always so exemplary. but we wish you every success for gothenburg. if you succeed, we all succeed. so, good luck with your visit to gothenburg. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner barnier, i would like to thank you for your reply. many of the members of this house are critical of the treaty of nice. i too and my group are deeply concerned about the future of the european union, because many of the questions that determine people's daily concerns and needs remain unresolved or are only tackled half-heartedly. nice has weakened the community. nice was a step backwards in terms of integration. there is no sign of a strengthening of democracy, more transparency, more capacity to act and to take decisions! the treaty, as the report says, has rightly removed the obstacles to enlargement, at most formally. i would therefore like to thank my two colleagues, mr méndez de vigo and mr seguro, for their dedicated work as rapporteurs, because their report reflects the predominantly critical view of this house on the treaty. the council of nice revealed that governments are ultimately fighting to preserve their national veto rights. the union is facing the greatest challenge in its history, but instead of tackling the pressing problems with vigour, governments have been hiding behind closed doors. i therefore believe that post-nice must be used to save the union from nice. i want to address some points that are important to me. it is essential to correct the number of seats for the czech republic and hungary in the european parliament without delay. there must be no discrimination between these two countries in their parliamentary representation in this house. the post-nizza period must be marked by an ambitious and truly profound reform, a reform which must achieve two things: firstly, the progress made in integration must not be reversed, and i would like to emphasize at this point that i do not share the german government's idea of renationalizing agricultural policy and in particular the structural funds, not because this would be tantamount to calling into question one of the central pillars of the union, the principle of economic and social cohesion and solidarity between the member states. secondly, we need a reform that will make the union truly sustainable. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is no longer the appropriate way to make substantial progress in europe. we need a method, and that is the method of the convention, as many here have already mentioned. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it has been a key player in the process of european integration. the future of europe cannot be limited to the single market and the single currency. i welcome the fact that in his recent speech french prime minister jospin focused on the objectives of the union's policies and did not limit his reflections to questions of eu institutional reform, as chancellor schröder and foreign minister fischer did. in fact, at the moment the debate on the content of the european union's policy is more urgent than the discussion on its final institutional form, and i welcome the fact that you have also raised this point today, madam president-in-office. justice, solidarity and social policy must be the core values and tasks of the community. the commission's proposals for closer coordination of economic policies and the formation of an eu economic government, as well as the creation of a recovery fund to support eu member states in times of crisis, are therefore highly topical. social dumping must no longer be a daily occurrence in the european union, and the harmonization of corporate taxation is indeed urgent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the two rapporteurs, iñigo méndez de vigo and antónio josé seguro, have taken on the difficult task of evaluating the results of the nice summit in december 2000 without offending anyone, while at the same time making plans for the future and expressing the wishes and demands of the european parliament. for this, they are to be thanked. the political proximity to the governments in the home countries obviously plays a role in evaluating the outcome of nice. the practice of appointing two rapporteurs from different political groups should be carefully examined to see whether it is still appropriate for the european parliament to do so in the future. as vice-chair of the constitutional committee, i would have liked to have had a clearer language. i know that large sections of the epp group, and not just german colleagues, are behind me. we believe that the results of nice are not sufficient to create the institutional conditions for enlargement. we regret this, precisely because we want enlargement to happen as soon as possible. our reservations concern above all the complicated voting procedure in the council of ministers, but also the number of members and the composition of the european parliament, which, with a regulation for 2009, is completely inadequate, raises legal problems until then, creates injustices for some candidate countries and, moreover, consolidates the continuing democratic deficit by not linking the co-decision procedure to majority voting in the council of ministers. the new intergovernmental conference in nice has set out four themes, of which the delimitation of competences is of the utmost importance to us and must be settled before the first accessions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, and most importantly, not only must the next igc be prepared more carefully, but it must be completed by the end of 2003, and the way forward must be set out in a binding manner, with the form of the convention, the timetable and the content, at the latest at the european council in laeken at the end of 2001.
- mr president, i also thank mr méndez de vigo and mr seguro for this excellent report, which reflects the opinion of the vast majority of the european parliament. i am sure we will see that tomorrow in the vote. but i would also like to point out that this is not the first time that the european parliament has said yes to a european treaty. this is new and different from maastricht and amsterdam. i think this should be a wake-up call to the governments that negotiated this treaty. we are not saying yes because we are not satisfied with the results and because we believe that neither the capacity for action nor, of course, democratic control in a union which is now expanding to 20 or 25 countries is guaranteed. the formal obstacles have been removed, but the problems of efficiency and transparency remain. that's what we're worried about. that's why we can't say yes. we demand consequences for what happened in nice. i can only agree that a convention must now be held to prepare the next european treaty. it must have a clear mandate to draw up a treaty that the citizens can also read and understand. it must be a mandate for a constitutional treaty, a document which creates the basis for this enlarged union. i would like to limit myself to a key theme for this convention, namely the elimination of the democratic deficit in the union. we all talk about it, but we still have different ideas about how to do it. i believe that the most important institution for the citizens is the european parliament and not the council of ministers. that is why this parliament must be strengthened. we unite people, not states. that is why we need a europe of the people and not just a europe of governments!
mr president, commissioner barnier, mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to thank you for your reply. the treaty of nice has not only stalled in the institutional field but also in some important areas. let us take the very recent example of the common european commercial policy. it is based on common principles and decisions are taken by majority vote. the current small extension of article 133 services and intellectual property is countered by six proposed exceptions and three proposals to the council itself not to go beyond its areas of responsibility. at the same time, the consultation of the european parliament, which was previously envisaged, is being eliminated, so that in many areas of trade policy, unlike in the usa, there is no formal possibility of parliamentary cooperation in europe, either at national or european level. we therefore call, as point 27 of the méndez de vigo/seguro report clearly states, for the european parliament to be fully involved in the common commercial and external economic policy, both in the orientation phase and in the negotiation and conclusion phases, and to play a decisive role there, because if the powers of the national parliaments in the common commercial policy no longer exist, it is urgently necessary, as an element of democratic control, for the european parliament to take their place and for this to be formally provided for in the end. otherwise, in the negotiations with the world trade organisation, we as the european parliament will be faced with a fully functioning american congress which can orient its administration accordingly, whereas the european parliament has no formal powers in this context. i therefore ask the swedish presidency to set the stage now so that the belgian presidency, in the process of updating the treaty of nice, can ensure that the laeken council adopts an effective recast of article 133.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this long debate i should like to say a few words on behalf of the commission and first of all to recall how much i personally, in my position as commissioner responsible for institutional reform, have appreciated the quality and competence of the parliamentary debates which have taken place here or in your committee on constitutional affairs, chaired by mr napolitano, during the ten months preceding nice. i would therefore like to thank you and the parliamentary tandems who have taken up these questions in turn, namely mr dimitrakopoulos/leinen, mr elmar brok and professor tsatsos during the igc, and today mr méndez de vigo and mr seguro, whom i thank. we have worked together, the commission and the european parliament, in good faith, and it is therefore not surprising that we analyse the content of this treaty of nice in the same way. i have already had the opportunity to say, and i will say it again today, that i think this treaty is a useful and short-term treaty. it is useful because of the advances it contains, article 7, the reform of the judicial system, which was badly needed, the relaxation of the enhanced cooperation we will need, the legal basis you wanted for a clear and transparent statute for political parties. it's useful, and many of you have said it with great force, because it's going from orange to green in terms of widening. it is a useful treaty, but it is a short-term treaty. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institutional body in the union, but that it should be the only institutional body in the union. there are too many unanimous votes, too many vetoes. and we know that at 30 this veto will be a source of collective impotence or weakness. the co-decision procedure has not been generalized as we would have wished for all community legislation. we have regretted that the european parliament is not playing its role in trade policy. and finally, it is not to say that the voting system will remain or become more complex. at this point, and before you take a responsible and conscientious decision, i want to say again that this treaty is useful, that it is short-term, that it must be taken into account, that it must be used and that it must be overcome. it has the first great merit of opening up the possibility of going now normally and fairly quickly to enlargement. it has another merit, which is written in its annex, as if the heads of state and government, at 5 o'clock in the morning, after signing this text, had realized that they could not stop there, as if they themselves had a bad conscience, they decided to open a new year immediately. well, we must commit ourselves to this exercise, which is open until 2004 and for which a new method has been authorized, which also proves that the intergovernmental method alone has proved its limits. so we have time now to open a real debate among the citizens. and i am going to say, as i did to the foreign ministers the other day, that first in gothenburg, and perhaps in laeken, but especially in gothenburg, we must find a way of taking stock of these national debates that are about to begin, but avoid them being merely juxtaposed debates, and find a way of exchanging practices and information, of making a kind of cross-fertilization of these national debates. the commission, like the european parliament, will be available alongside the council to turn these national debates into a european debate at some point. this debate among citizens should enable us to examine the weaknesses of the institutions as widely as possible, but, beyond institutional questions, to talk about the european project. what do we want to do together? do we want to remain in a large market that works well with a single currency, or do we want to go beyond that? how can we strengthen the community of values that we have built up over the last 50 years, a community of solidarity? to show that this european project must of course evolve, but that it has borne fruit, in particular with the community model which has worked well and with the community policies which have been useful. i would like to draw attention in particular to the fruits of the policy for which i am responsible, the cohesion policy. that is the importance of this great debate in which we are about to engage. and then, in 2002 and 2003, we will have to find a way of structuring this debate, of structuring the work to prepare properly for the final intergovernmental conference. that is why, in 2002 and 2003, as president prodi said, we too are in favour of convening a convention that would bring together the four institutional partners, on the model of what has worked well for the charter of fundamental rights, national parliaments, the european parliament, national governments and the commission. having said that, i have not answered all the questions that arise, particularly the question of the association of the candidate countries, since we want to make a major reform in 2004 that directly concerns them, as we do today in the union. i think they'll have to find their place in this convention. it will also be necessary to decide on the proper way to organise the work of this convention. we are well aware, ladies and gentlemen, that this convention - i say this to reassure those member states which may be worried - will not take a decision, but will make proposals for the intergovernmental conference which will ultimately have to take the decisions, briefly and at the highest level. but this convention, from my point of view, after the various experiences we have had and which i personally had in amsterdam, nice and the convention on rights, this convention seems to me to be the way to make the next igc a success. it is the means of achieving greater transparency, of having a real debate, because the four institutional partners who would participate in these preparatory work and proposals have the means, as you do, to go beyond our chambers and explain to the elected representatives and citizens of our countries what is happening. this is the condition for transparency and for a proper democratic explanation. i would therefore like to say on behalf of the commission that we are in favour of this convention in 2002 and 2003, because it is the condition for successfully completing the exercise which has been under way since nice and for real reform to take place in 2004. in any case, as far as the commission is concerned, you can count on the european commission to play its full part in preparing the various steps which will take us from now until 2004 towards and for a major reform. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the results of the mission to korea by the council and the commission.
- mr president, i have to go. the compatibility of ecology and economics has been a subject of philosophical interest for many years. the problem is that while there is no theoretical contradiction between economic growth and environmental protection, in practice economic growth has so far generally had negative effects on environmental quality. on the other hand, economic decline, coupled with an increase in unemployment and poverty, always results in a loss of environmental quality. the issue is therefore very complex and difficult to grasp, particularly because there is still no universal indicator for the monetary valuation of environmental goods. we need standards that are valid throughout the eu, and only for the eu can we achieve them. the commission is asked to base its communication on statistical evidence if it is not to continue to discuss air locks. the question remains, assuming the existence of a certain basis, what consequences would be drawn from this? there's a lot to think about. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the pollution of the environment. the models are there. however, it is important that these models are introduced in all eu member states in the same way and at the same time to ensure fair opportunities for all involved. only fair competition can ensure the acceptance of environmental measures of any kind. subsidies must be reviewed for their effectiveness and, if necessary, modified or replaced by other measures. trade in environmental goods must be fair. environmental taxes and charges are only meaningful and effective if they are emission-related and revenue-neutral for the citizen. in addition, such taxes and charges may not be spent in any way other than for environmental purposes. only then will it be possible to meet the legitimate demand for a healthy environment of our citizens and of people outside the eu.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i thank mrs hulthén for presenting her report on sustainable development, which she has produced under great time pressure, under difficult circumstances. the epp will support the report. it contains important environmental policy points. we are not in agreement with all the wording. it would have been good, particularly in the context of the statements on economic and social policy, if we had had more time to discuss them with the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on economic and monetary affairs. if, for example, in paragraph 32 we call for a minimum income and make statements on social security, then this should not be stated in an environmental policy report which has actually been prepared only by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, but only after intensive discussion with the economic and social committee. i also regret - and this is certainly also due to the time constraints - that we have only included one point on the development policy aspects of sustainable development, because anyone who is concerned with sustainable development, with the rio process, knows that the heart of the whole issue is development policy. i think more could have been said. i am not blaming you, because it was difficult for parliament to get everything right under the pressure of time. one point in the report and in the statements by commission president prodi on sustainable development has caused a great deal of stir in germany. it is now in paragraphs 21 and 22 of this report. it is about eliminating environmentally harmful subsidies, especially for coal. i personally believe that the long-term objective must be to eliminate environmentally harmful subsidies altogether. but i think we have to be careful about giving a very close date. if the pse group calls in the forthcoming report on the sixth environmental action programme for an end to the programme before 2005, this will lead to mass redundancies and we will certainly not achieve this goal in a sustainable way. that is why i think we should make the objective clear, there is no disagreement but we should also look for substitute work ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already done so. i said at the beginning, when i read the commission's proposal: 'great! that's when i read the memo. then i looked at the articles and i realized that something happened between the announcement and the article. there's always something missing. if you look at it closely, you can see it. the communication sets out the strategic objectives linked to the measures very well. the articles are vague. sometimes something is lost altogether, for example in noise, which i believe is a central environmental factor for human health. the communication describes the burden and lists the measures. then you get to the articles; the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include a reference to the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to noise. then, when it comes to article 6 measures concerning health, you go on and on, commissioner! i can't find any concrete measures to deal with noise. i think it is right that we should now bring back to the articles and thus to the binding commitments of the commission, parliament and the council what you very rightly and well listed in the beginning of the communication. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we need a degree of strategic orientation if we are to go ahead with such an instrument. for example, in the water sector, it says: 'stop the discharge of dangerous substances'. i do not think there is a single person in the european union who says he wants to discharge more dangerous substances into the water. but the questions of when what happens and what are dangerous substances, they need to be defined a little more! that's all that's missing. the next dash reads: 'amendment to the bathing water directive'. what do you mean, change? does that mean we're setting the bar high? does this mean the same standards as in the drinking water directive, or does it mean protecting human health? so, we need more clarity here. the epp group will be able to support the amendments tabled by the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities. we have to do that, but we have to do it at second reading because then we have to refine. i would urge you to give us a negotiating mandate at first reading and to support the report.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today proves it again: the european union's environmental policy has become a major focus of european policy in recent years. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one. the compromise reached in the conciliation committee on the environmental impact assessment of certain plenary programmes is therefore also an important element in the environmental policy of the european union. it is gratifying that many of the ambiguities and uncertainties of the first and second readings are no longer part of this directive. in particular, it is to be welcomed that many terms - and i will only mention the concept of the public once again - have now been defined clearly and concisely. the extension of the directive to cover eu-funded support, including support from the structural funds, is certainly to be welcomed in principle. however, it should be noted that the application for structural fund funds is already facing time constraints due to bureaucratic hurdles and, in my view, sometimes very excessive demands. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would stress that the inclusion of environmental impact assessment should not be seen as jeopardising the granting of aid. i would like to point out another weakness: it is doubtful whether the environmental impact assessment as presented in this text is applied in a comparable way in all the member states. too often, important rules are left to the imagination of the member states in their application and implementation. this will certainly satisfy regionalists in the eu, but it will hardly help to achieve comparable situations in the european union. there is also a concern that competition might be distorted. i see here the crucial weakness of the compromise reached in the conciliation committee. if environmental impact assessments in one country are only intended to identify potential hazards, but in another country the same environmental impact assessment results can lead to the prohibition of the measures in question, it is hardly possible to speak of a regulation relevant to the internal market. we should monitor and critically examine the developments in the next few years and intervene accordingly.
- mr president, my favourite commissioner! when i bought new tires for my car six months ago, i chose tires with 71 decibels. that is three decibels below what we are supposed to decide tomorrow for 2005. commissioner, i cannot explain to anyone that there are already tyres on the market that are 3 decibels below the standard we are supposed to adopt for 2005. now, some say the tire may be quiet, but it's unsafe, and besides, it uses more fuel. that's not true! this tyre i bought has a rolling resistance rating that is well below average, and it also has grip and aquaplaning ratings that are much better than average. it is therefore a quiet, low-consumption and safe tyre. it is also true that the advertising on the tyre says: reducing co2. well, there's more to it than that. in this respect, i think the compromise is still acceptable. the commission has to look at the market and see what is available. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question, and i hope that he will give us a clear answer.
- mr president, i would like to thank you very much for pointing out that the rapporteur's speaking time must not be used to express personal opinions - and not in this sharp, almost defamatory way! i would like to point out that as a member of parliament, which i am - i will speak on behalf of the group - i am being banned from speaking for expressing an opinion on a subject which i have never concealed. i am also entitled to sign amendments for the group which my group supports. i would also like to see a rapporteur who is also neutral and who represents the committee's views. i am speaking as a member of parliament and not as the president, and i have not signed anything as president. i ask that this be kept separate and not be used to confuse the work. we have a very good climate in the committee. i'm a little shocked by the way things are going here tonight!
- mr president, the present financial regulation is outdated. it no longer meets the requirements of modern financial management. the commission has presented a proposal for a new financial regulation based on the principles of decentralised accountability and transparency. the two rapporteurs, mr dell'alba and mr van hulten, have worked on this proposal in the committee on budgets and in the committee on budgetary control and have proposed amendments. for that, praise and thanks! the commission has already made a number of proposals. firstly, the commission's latest 2000 anti-fraud report found a sharp increase in fraud and irregularities compared with the previous year. some eur 2 billion was lost. experience shows that at best 15% to 20% of losses can be recovered. is it sensible to abolish preventive ex ante controls by means of an independent financial control? we do not want to return to schematic centralized prior checks which dismiss responsibility and give the impression of false security. instead, independent financial controllers should in future, on the basis of efficient risk analysis and sampling, contribute in a decentralised manner to preventing the unlawful spending of taxpayers' money in advance. secondly, with greater responsibility at all levels, financial actors will be held responsible in the future for negligence or intentional breach of financial rules. our proposal is to create a fair process here by an independent body for all the institutions. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financial control of the european parliament and the council of the european union is a very good one. we want to restore it by means of a motion. the last point is the advisory committee on public procurement. it is the advisory body to be contacted before contracts are awarded. the house decided at its last meeting in strasbourg to reform this procedure. i think we are being untrustworthy if we are now, 14 days later, calling for the abolition of the committee.
mr president, for an organization with a budget of more than 92 billion euros, the financial regulation is almost the most important legal basis for ensuring the careful use of european funds and avoiding any misuse as far as possible. it is more necessary than ever to emphasize this aspect, because the commission itself informed us two weeks ago that the sum of money lost in 2000 due to fraud and irregularities amounts to an impressive 2028 million euros. it is not possible to make a state in europe with this! so, more than help is needed. the question is how the commission intends to improve this situation. it wants to abolish the independent financial controller, the institution which, in the light of all the experience gained in the fight against fraud - i will mention only the fléchard case - has been the most successful. this is similar to a residential area where the number of burglaries has doubled and the police have ordered the removal of all guard dogs. parliament has decentralised the maintenance of independent financial control and has also decided on several occasions, most recently on 4 april 2001 in its preliminary report on discharge 1998. the financial controller is also mentioned in the contract. the internal auditor is not a financial controller in a new suit, but a fraudster, which is unacceptable to my group. the necessary counterpart to independent financial control is the clear allocation of responsibility, the liability for intentional misconduct or negligence by officials, which is found in all the national legal systems of the fifteen. the commission's reform efforts seem to me to be more likely to lead to a shifting of financial responsibility back and forth, like a railway station, until finally no one knows where it is. the budgetary rules should be based on the principle of clarity, transparency and traceability in the implementation of the budget. that's the only way to win the approval of the people.
the commission has already done so. recent accident research results show that: 50% of fatal vehicle occupants are not wearing their seat belts. the road safety sector has developed rapidly. i come from a part of the state where, ten years ago, there were no child seats or child restraints, and seat belts were already a luxury in cars. then in 1991 i had the chance to help develop the safety belt directive. the commission has already taken steps to adapt this directive to scientific and technical progress. the extensive accident research and the modern safety restraint systems developed by industry make the present situation unacceptable. it is irresponsible to allow children under three years of age to travel in the back of a car without any attachment or in child seats in the passenger seat without the airbag being switched off. it should also no longer be possible to secure larger children using adult safety belts. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road is not compromised. the proposal to amend the directive in question, which has been given substance by six amendments tabled by the european parliament, will help us to achieve solutions that are both technically safer and, above all, more user-friendly. the latter in particular increases the likelihood that existing restraint systems will also be used. more than 50% of children are still not wearing their seat belts, even when they are fitted with appropriate devices in the vehicle. parents seem to be unaware that this increases the risk of serious injury or even death in an accident for their unbuckled children by a factor of seven. the end of development has not yet been reached. today's child restraints are rated on frontal crash test results and almost always receive good marks. after all, 70% of all fatal accidents involving children in cars are caused by side-impact collisions. that's where these systems fail. i recommend that we approve the amendments which are before us today to adapt the directive.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on behalf of the socialist group, i welcome this reform of the 1996 equality directive and i congratulate mrs hautala on her really immense work to build consensus here in parliament. the amendment to the directive comes at the right time, now that we finally have a sound legal basis in the treaty of amsterdam, and it gives concrete expression to the protection of women against discrimination in the workplace and in the professional environment. i think this is a real building block in the overall strategy for gender mainstreaming that we are bringing to the table. the amendments to the commission text which we support will broaden the scope of the directive and make it more specific. we are introducing concrete definitions for direct and indirect discrimination in the workplace. for the first time, sexual harassment in the workplace has been recognised as discrimination on the grounds of sex, and our amendments will open up various avenues for women workers to defend themselves and to seek help from an independent body. we are also introducing the right to return to the appropriate job after a child-care leave. we are again introducing an amendment which will also protect fathers who take parental leave. that's not enough. it is about 2% of fathers throughout europe who are exercising this right, and these progressive fathers must not be left out of our efforts. i hope that this amendment will find broad support here. i therefore see this as an important building block for gender mainstreaming. we social democrats want to break up old, over-shredded structures and stop reproducing role stereotypes. the directive obliges member states to take action against discrimination, and we are moving away from non-binding. i believe that the debate on this subject is being stimulated in germany too. the equality directive is also required for the private sector. after the cases we've had, i hope we can finally make progress for women together.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission proposal brings improvements. it strengthens the protection of workers who have lodged a complaint of discrimination. it defines sexual harassment at work as discrimination on grounds of sex for the first time and recognises the special protection of women on the basis of their physical condition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this into account. the existing workforce must be involved in the enforcement of equality, for example equality officers or works councils. the new rules on the use of the euro are to be applied to all the member states, and to all the institutions. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the results of the survey and to provide the commission with a report on the results of the survey. the requirement for annual gender reporting places a disproportionate burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. women who give birth to children are entitled to special legal protection. much has been achieved in the member states of the european union over the years. the european directive on maternity protection gives clear guidelines in this area. i'm not against the involvement of fathers, quite the opposite. i am against the hot-needle approach and the equal protection of mothers and fathers. there's a subtle difference. children are born by mothers, not fathers. so naturally, you have to be able to differentiate things here. but the proposal lacks the thoroughness. we want equal treatment, equality in society in terms of work and employment, that is our declared goal, but we must pay close attention to the balance so that women's jobs remain attractive, also in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the actual equality of women and men is one of the most important tasks of social policy. women are still discriminated against in the labour market. women still earn less than men. women are underrepresented in leadership positions. the unemployment rate for women is higher than for men in the european population. the hautala report is an important contribution to equality. but i think that the directive should take account of several aspects of women's daily working life. the reform proposed does not go far enough. for example, there are no regulations on equal conditions of employment. women must be paid equally for equal work! we need targeted reintegration schemes after periods of work interruption. i am committed to equal opportunities for women and men in all areas of social life. i call on the council and the commission to take action to achieve these objectives!
the commission has already done so. the free movement of workers - a cornerstone of the treaties of rome and the most important of the four fundamental freedoms in our internal market - can only work if employment does not end at national borders. this is done by eures, a service designed to provide information, advice and job placement across national borders. we agree with the report by mr ribeiro e castro on all the main points. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. we particularly agree with the critical remarks - which he has just repeated orally - in recital a, which makes clear the commission's requirements for future reports in terms of objective justification and statistical information. it makes our job a lot easier. the report, however, like so many others, is tempted to add a whole series of other improvements to the demands already made by the commission itself. the repetition of the self-evident and often borderline perfectionist aspirations of our own house to list as many as possible of the only conceivable demands does not, in my view, make a report any more efficient, nor does it make our common concern any more credible. i am not inclined to follow the method - which i often see - whereby parliament has to add at least five more to the five demands which the commission has already made. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this sense, it seems to me to be a bit excessive to design and implement continuous information, especially for youth associations, universities and the media, as is called for in paragraph 15 of the report. in my view, this should be left to the local eures services, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. i am also very wary of the creation of other bodies, such as the core operational areas in paragraph 16, because they are not very concrete and are often used as fig leaves to cover up the possible failures of existing bodies. the growing importance of eures in the face of the enlargement to the east must be clearly underlined - this has also been done in the report - because a qualified job counselling and placement service can undoubtedly channel possible greater migration desires. the aim of further integration of the labour market within the fifteen must not, however, be overlooked. the restructuring of the financial bases and the reform of the legal basis, as called for in article 27 of the report, are absolutely necessary. the problems on the ground and the questions that parliamentarians ask about them are proof of this. parliament, as the representative of the citizens on the ground, must be given a decisive role in this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have a point to make on the record. in the annex to the minutes, in the adopted texts, in the méndes de vigo report - i am looking for my papers and of course i cannot find anything at the moment - there is a point in which it is stated that a european constitution is to be drawn up. this is due to an amendment tabled by mr brok. after consulting mr brok, he confirmed to me that he had not chosen such wording in his amendment. i would therefore ask that the amendments be reviewed to see whether this subject has now been correctly included in the final document by mrs mendes de vigo in all the language versions, because we naturally want to avoid any misinterpretation.
madam president, it was very, very difficult for us to make this proposal, precisely because we want to work well with mrs hautala as far as is politically possible. but we wanted to have enough time for the debate in gothenburg and therefore proposed that the wuori report be deferred to the ministerial meeting. so it is not an objection to the matter, but a question of having more time to prepare for the important summit in gothenburg.
i have to say, madam president, i have one more question for wednesday. because of our mistake in cancelling friday, which you are not responsible for, we have to start at 8:30 on wednesday. we're on our way to the five-day wednesday. we can probably work through tuesday from midnight to 8:30. actually, i was gonna check in for question and answer. the commission's question time has been shortened again. we always prepare ourselves precisely, so that we ask certain commissioners certain questions. this is what our house pushed through in a reform of question time years ago. we have therefore put questions to certain commissioners and i see that everything has been thrown into one big pot except for one question to mr kinnock. the presence of all the other commissioners at this question time, which was scheduled six months ago, has been cancelled without a replacement. i wanted to ask why that is.
i have to say, madam president, i'm sorry, but the translation didn't quite work out. i asked a specific question. i wanted to know why two of the three commissioners who were to be appointed were deleted from question time and why all the questions which were specifically addressed to these commissioners, such as mrs schreyer, were deferred to the 'general' section, where they have no chance of being answered. that's what i was going to ask.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to return to a subject less exhilarating than the debate we have heard in the last five minutes. i would like to ask you whether there has been any change in the way mr dell'utri's request for waiver of immunity has been dealt with since the last part-session. we have lost the other case since 8.30 this morning, much to the regret of our colleagues in the epp, as i hear. let me ask you this: since the last plenary session, have you received any documents from the spanish authorities concerning the request for waiver of dell'utri's immunity? if so, have you already forwarded these documents to the committee responsible? if not, will you, after another month has elapsed between may and now, take the initiative to ask the spanish authorities to stop blocking the proceedings of the spanish judiciary?
i have to say, madam president, i thank you for giving me the floor once again. i very much regret that i have only had the opportunity to ask you a question on the dell'utri case at the opening of the sitting as part of the rules of procedure. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the budget is properly spent. i have heard in this house on several occasions that i was only interested in this case because of the italian election campaign. the campaign is over, and i would therefore like to return to the dell'utri case as one of exemplary importance to every single member of this house. tomorrow, a request for waiver of immunity may be made against any individual in this house - against me, against mr poettering, against mr haarder, against mrs frahm, against anyone - and then the member or the member concerned must have the opportunity to comment directly on the allegations in order to avoid public speculation. mr dell'utri has been prevented from commenting on the charges against him for nine months. it is perhaps very important to tell the spanish authorities that the way in which the spanish government deals with requests for waiver of immunity from the european parliament is also a matter of dignity in dealing with the european parliament. one more thing, madam president. the fact that the judiciary can directly appeal to the legislature in a separation of powers is a matter of course in europe. there is only one parliament which claims that there must be a reservation of the executive, and that is this parliament. and that this absurd situation is so, in my eyes, you alone, mrs fontaine, bear the responsibility! (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. international estimates suggest that traffickers take up to 700 000 women and children each year. the european union is attracting 120 000 women and children from central and eastern european countries alone every year. these are the figures on which the commission is based. not only the individual cases reported in the media, but also the figures which are related to them, illustrate the urgency of tackling trafficking in human beings through coordinated cooperation. the fight against trafficking in human beings is difficult in itself. it is further complicated by the very heterogeneous national criminal law. definitions and sanctions differ widely, and in the criminal law of several member states the offence of 'trafficking in human beings' does not even exist. the european union has therefore been working for some years to develop a comprehensive approach to combating trafficking in human beings. the palermo protocol, signed at the end of 2000, agreed for the first time on concrete, common definitions. the commission proposal aims to establish, by means of a framework decision, minimum rules on the elements of the offences and minimum maximum penalties. the establishment of a minimum maximum sentence of 6 years and 10 years in aggravated circumstances should be sufficient to include trafficking in human beings in union-wide police and judicial cooperation in the fight against organised crime. i think that the commission's proposal is to be welcomed. i particularly welcome the fact that not only the offence of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation is covered, but also the offence of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of labour exploitation. the commission also draws a clear distinction between the smuggling of migrants and trafficking in human beings. while human smuggling is considered a crime against the state, trafficking in human beings is a form of crime against persons. the commission's proposal and the various amendments from the committees involved will enable us to reach a result which defines human trafficking in a uniform way throughout europe, sets minimum and maximum penalties and gives due weight to the protection of victims in addition to the punishment of the perpetrators. i would like to express my sincere thanks to all the members of the committees involved for the good cooperation which has led to this result. i would like to conclude by commenting on the request for my report to be referred back to the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the european parliament was already constrained by the council's timetable at the beginning of the debate to such an extent that it was only possible with enormous effort to work on the draft framework decision in depth and in depth. the members who have been entrusted with this task have given their consent and have done an excellent job, for which i expressly thank them all. the council, however, without consulting the elected representatives, has in the meantime made such progress in its negotiations that the conclusion of political agreements is now a mere formality. the council is clearly not interested in the decision of the only body of the european union with direct democratic legitimacy. a revised draft of the framework decision, with major changes by the council, has already been submitted to the european parliament, but not yet to the european parliament. i therefore believe that a referral back to the committee is urgently needed to deal with this new version and also with the unacceptable action taken by the council. that is why i would ask you all to agree to a referral back to the home affairs committee at tomorrow's vote. in the second part of my speech i would like to comment on the report by mrs karamanou on the fight against the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography in the member states, which requires a coordinated approach at european level. organized crime and this is predominantly organized crime is not limited to certain regions or states. crossborder cooperation has a long history among criminals, particularly in the area of sexual exploitation of children. the european union therefore urgently needs measures to prosecute these reprehensible crimes across borders. i am pleased that agreement was reached across party lines on this framework decision, which is pointing the way forward by bringing the offences closer together, harmonising the penal framework and improving the position of victims. this includes taking account of new media in the definition of child pornography and discussing the issue of extraterritorial jurisdiction. i believe that the protection of victims is of the utmost importance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of child sexual abuse. the children affected will carry the consequences of what adults have done to them for the rest of their lives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in a criminal case, they may be legally witnesses first, but ultimately and above all, they are victims! the european parliament wants all these points to be incorporated in the present draft. i am sure that the report by mrs karamanou, to whom i would like to express my thanks for the good cooperation, will find a large majority, and we will thus take another important step in the fight against the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to begin by thanking mrs klamt and mrs karamanou for the good reports. child sexual exploitation, child pornography and human trafficking are abhorrent crimes that are escalating to appalling proportions. their dissemination is facilitated by globalisation and modern telecommunications technology. these problems can no longer be solved by national measures. the european union and the member states must act together in cooperation with the third countries concerned. there are two areas of trafficking in human beings which must be clearly distinguished. the sexual abuse and exploitation of labour. at the beginning of the 21st century, there are more slaves in the world than were taken from africa in the previous centuries. the united nations estimates that some 200 million people worldwide are exploited as slaves. trafficking in human beings takes place through well-organized criminal networks, some of which are international. the framework decision is an important step towards better cooperation between the member states. the approximation of the laws of the member states will lay the foundations for better cooperation between judicial authorities in order to enable a european fight against trafficking in human beings. the same applies to the framework decision on combating child pornography and the sexual exploitation of children. all the possibilities for prevention must be further developed. in order to be able to act against these criminal networks, we need targeted training of the officials. these areas of concern should be taken into account in the accession negotiations with the central and eastern european countries. in the field of trafficking in human beings, for example, some of the candidate countries have now become countries of origin, transit and destination. in the border area with the european union, prostitution, sex tourism and the sexual exploitation of children have become a sad reality. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the eu's external relations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i welcome the report and i thank the commission for its initiatives in connection with this dramatic crime of sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. it is right that we should be concerned both about the definition of child pornography and sexual exploitation and about the extent to which and where we set age limits. it is also right that we should be talking about maximum penalties. i shall be sharing the proposals in the reports. i would like to draw your attention to another aspect - and i am grateful that it has been included in the reports - namely the problem of minimum sentences and not just the problem of maximum sentences. the rejection of a crime by society is shown most significantly by the minimum sentences that are applied. today, in many cases, the crime of child pornography is still suspended for probation because of insufficient minimum sentences. but child pornography is not a crime that can be suspended for probation. i therefore call on the commission to cooperate in establishing minimum sentences that are adequate to ensure that these crimes are indeed the worst that can be done to children in the minds of our society, and that we should jointly lay the foundations for this awareness within the european union.
commission. – mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the commission i congratulate mrs karamanou and mrs klamt for their excellent reports and thank all those of you who have been raising this very important issue for several years. i would like to start with mrs klamt's report. the commission's proposals should be viewed in the context of a more comprehensive policy that includes the closer police and judicial cooperation in the fight against organised crime; the contributions that important community programmes like stop and daphne have given to this issue; and, last but not least, the forum on the prevention of organised crime recently launched by the commission, which includes a specific workshop on trafficking in human beings. however, prevention is only one side of the coin. providing victims with assistance and protection is equally important. i would like to remind you that in march the council adopted a framework decision on the standing of victims in criminal proceedings. that decision addresses several important issues taken up in some of parliament's amendments. furthermore, i would like to reiterate that the commission will be submitting a proposal on temporary residence permits for those victims of trafficking prepared to cooperate in investigations against their exploiters. such an initiative should be autonomous and provide a platform for more structured assistance and protection, by clarifying the status of victims vis-à- vis residence. given the circumstances, and bearing in mind the specific nature of the legal instruments under discussion, the commission shares the underlying aims of several of the amendments put forward by parliament. however, we will be unable to accept those that fall within the scope of other framework decisions – the framework decision on the standing of victims in criminal proceedings, for instance – or those whose detailed nature is incompatible with a specific instrument such as a framework decision. i regret to say that, although i wholly favour the idea of creating a fund to protect the victims, such a fund would run counter to the subsidiarity principle that we need to honour in specific instruments such as framework decisions. having said that, the commission accepts most of the amendments to the recitals, including those inserting references to the charter of fundamental rights and to underline the work carried out by parliament over the years. the commission also fully shares the objectives of the amendments on the abuse of vulnerability, on vulnerability and debt bondage, and on vulnerability, physical and mental disabilities and illegal residence. it can also support the amendments on transportation in inhuman conditions as an aggravated circumstance. as far as the klamt report is concerned, i would like to emphasise that the sterling efforts and commitment of the swedish presidency have culminated in a basic agreement on several provisions, but sadly, no consensus has been achieved on the severity of sanctions. the commission has not, therefore, submitted a revised proposal. we will await parliament's opinions and then incorporate them into our own position. let me now turn to mrs karamanou's report. i would like to praise her approach and to add that, indeed, action should always take practical as well as legal form. for those actions to succeed it will be vital to harmonise criminal law and criminal regulations relating both to sanctions and to the definitions of child pornography, and child pornography on the internet in particular. here again, we share the objectives of some of the amendments that have been put forward, but we sincerely feel that they come under the provisions of other legal instruments such as the framework decisions on the standing of victims in criminal proceedings. regarding the amendments concerned with the definition of child pornography and the offence of child pornography, we believe that the definitions decided by the union should be as much in line as possible with the definitions taken on board by the draft convention on cyber crime drawn up by the council of europe. coherence between these two instruments is, in my opinion, extremely important. the commission would like to highlight its position on two sets of amendments that are particularly difficult from a political point of view. first i turn to the amendments suggesting that sexual exploitation of persons below the age of 16 years should be regarded as an aggravated offence. this involves very complicated issues of a legal nature, not least as regards the relation between national law and european union law – subsidiarity. under many member states' criminal law, sexual exploitation is an offence when it involves a person below the age of sexual consent, as soon as the occurrence of a sexual act has been established. this means, in turn, that the amendments setting the age limit for an aggravated offence at 16 will undoubtedly interfere not only with the systematic approaches in the member states but also with national considerations on the age of consent. we have no legal title to harmonise the issue of the age of consent to sexual relations. the commission cannot therefore agree with the relevant amendments but would be willing to consider an age limit set at a higher level than in the original proposal, that is, changing the age limit from the age of 10 to 12 years. secondly, as regards the amendments concerned with jurisdiction and extradition, it should be observed that the articles of the proposal are modelled on provisions reflecting the state of play in regard to specific instruments in this field. the commission cannot therefore agree to the suggested amendments. at the same time, we are willing to consider these issues in a broader context. however, as regards the extension of the jurisdiction article to habitual residents, the commission would be prepared to take that amendment on board, as it would all other amendments to the recitals of the proposal. in conclusion, i sincerely hope that it will be possible to reach a political agreement in the council as far as sanctions are concerned. i share the view of those who say that in reality the application of penal law differs in our 15 member states. that is true. we must not, however, give the wrong message to those who traffic in human beings by not having common sanctions at european level. it would seriously defeat our common aim if we were not capable of agreeing on common sanctions when it comes to trafficking in human beings. we have already achieved agreement when it comes to counterfeiting the euro, when it comes to money-laundering, or when it comes to smugglers' and carriers' liability. i do not see any justification for not reaching political agreement on common sanctions on trafficking in human beings for purposes of economic exploitation and sexual exploitation.
the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. today's debate shows that the european parliament, the commission and the swedish presidency share a common interest in animal welfare and animal ethics. it also gives us an opportunity to exchange views on these important issues. the relationship between man and animals is increasingly discussed in today's society. during my time as a member of the eu council of agriculture ministers, it has been evident that animal welfare issues have been increasingly high on the agenda and have been taking up more and more of our time. in this respect, 1995 is not like 2001. however, in recent years, when we discuss animal matters, we have mostly been talking about sick animals and disastrous agricultural developments. the animal welfare issues dealt with by the council concern mainly technical regulations, but i think it is high time that we also discussed matters of principle relating to the relationship between man and animals and how animals should be treated. ethical aspects of animal husbandry must be more clearly reflected in agricultural policy decisions. ethics is not about labeling what is good or bad, good or bad, but it is a tool that helps us take a stand in difficult choices. we must dare to ask why animals are in some contexts considered merely products and why the mistreatment of animals is allowed in some cases. when abuses are revealed, we tend to react by demanding stricter regulations, but it is not possible to prevent animal cruelty through legislation or control measures alone. the treatment of animals is also a matter of human attitudes and values. at the council of ministers in may i took the initiative of a debate on the ethical aspects of animal husbandry. the aim of the debate was to raise the issue on a principled level, on the basis that we should continue to have a society of animals at the service of man. all member states considered that ethical aspects of animal husbandry are important. these need to be more integrated into future decisions affecting animal husbandry. member states stressed that animals are sentient beings who must be treated well. several countries argued that knowledge of animals and their needs, as well as education of people who handle animals in their daily work, is crucial. one of the conclusions i drew from the debate was that animals are sentient beings with a value of their own. they shall be treated with respect and due regard shall be paid to their health and well-being. i pointed out in my conclusion that the statements made must not be limited to fine words but must commit to practical measures for the protection of animals. the scientific conference on the food chain 2001 was organised in line with the swedish presidency's emphasis on a holistic approach to the food chain. one of the conclusions of the conference is particularly important to me. improved animal welfare, which guarantees healthier animals, often brings decisive economic gains. the informal ministerial meeting in östersund in april discussed the future of the eu's agricultural and food policy. it was clear then that changes had to be made. many of my colleagues have highlighted in their speeches the crisis in which agriculture is currently found. mad cow disease, foot-and-mouth disease and unacceptable animal transport are just some of the issues that highlight the need for change. another of sweden's conferences under the presidency was ethics and animal welfare 2001, to which parliament was also invited. the purpose of that conference was to bring together representatives of, inter alia, the industry, animal welfare organisations and public authorities and to hold a discussion on animal welfare and ethics. the participants agreed that the exchange of experience and an open, continuous dialogue are essential for improvements in the field of animal welfare. it is important that, for example, adopted rules are also transposed into practical reality. i am pleased that discussions on animal welfare and animal ethics have been held in so many contexts, but in order to achieve improvements in animal welfare, stricter rules are also needed in many areas. during the swedish presidency, the council has examined several proposals in the field of animal welfare. one of these dossiers is the commission's report on the protection of animals during transport. the report was presented and discussed at the january ministerial council. one of the conclusions of the report is that each member state must allocate additional resources to implement existing provisions. it is also urgent that the commission should make concrete proposals for improving the legislation. the presidency is also working to ensure that a resolution on animal transport can be adopted by the council of ministers in june, that is, next week. the aim is to ask the commission to come forward with proposals for improved rules on the transport of animals. the presidency will of course need a large majority to decide on such a resolution. the most urgent thing, in my view, is that the provisions which already exist are actually being implemented in the member states, but that is not yet the case. it also shows films and videos that are recorded in various countries, often in secret. they make this clear and also arouse the citizens' disgust. it is important that the joint decisions we have taken are implemented in each country. it is also important to reduce transport times for animals and to abolish export refunds for live animals. the commission has, however, presented a proposal in this area in the late spring. the proposal concerns improved ventilation in road vehicles used for animal transport operations exceeding eight hours. the presidency has started the examination of the proposal in the council working party. the presidency has worked very intensively on the commission's proposal for a new directive on the protection of pigs. the proposal, as you know, contains improvements for pigs. we very much appreciate the work of the rapporteur, mr busk, on this proposal. i think it is very important that we in the council can reach a decision as soon as possible on improvements in pig farming. this of course requires an opinion from the european parliament. i hope you will therefore understand our desire for a speedy procedure. it would allow a clear signal from both the european parliament and the council that we are giving priority to animal welfare. detailed rules are important, but they must rest on a fundamental position on our responsibility for animals. within the eu we have decided to take the needs of animals into account. this is reflected in particular in the treaty of amsterdam, which recognises that animals are sentient beings and that animal welfare must be taken into account in the formulation and implementation of community policies. we will of course continue to take animal welfare into account, as our legislation requires. moreover, it is my personal conviction that our human dignity invites us to take responsibility for the animals. humans have a unique position and therefore a moral responsibility to take care of animals.
commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the swedish presidency for taking the initiative to request this debate. it is a measure of the importance attached to animal welfare by the presidency, and by minister winberg in particular. the past several months have seen a sharp rise in interest in animal welfare issues at community level. there have been several discussions on the issue in the agriculture council and a major conference was also organised in stockholm late last month, as mrs winberg has just told you. i was pleased to represent the commission in all these debates and discussions. of course, this presidency is not yet over and there will be further opportunities to address animal welfare issues. this wednesday i will address parliament's intergroup on animal welfare for the second time this year. in a little over a week there will be a further discussion in the agriculture council. this discussion is intended to lead to a resolution helping to set the future policy agenda. a cynic might argue that all this discussion amounts to hot air and is camouflage for a lack of real progress. i am satisfied that this is not the case. these discussions are genuinely worthwhile. it is important to build up a solid consensus on the need for more action on animal welfare. we should not forget that until very recently animal welfare was a neglected issue on the community agenda. this is changing fast. moreover, i am convinced that it will become even more important in the future. the reason for the higher profile of this issue is not hard to see. people care deeply about the treatment of animals. they are increasingly intolerant of mistreatment of animals and insistent that our systems of agricultural production must ensure better treatment of animals. these sentiments are also feeding into the market. there is a much greater demand from consumers for information on the conditions in which animals are reared. the public demand more and better information on products and foodstuffs: how and where they are produced, under what conditions and with what ingredients. it makes good business sense to respond to these demands. i recently received on my desk the results of a reputable survey on consumer attitudes towards key animal welfare issues. the survey results include the interesting information that up to 85% of consumers are prepared to pay more for food produced in accordance with the highest welfare standards. even if these results are not fully reflected by consumers in their shopping behaviour, there is a clear potential for the market to give greater prominence to higher standards as a competitive tool. these trends will continue to grow and there is no reason why they cannot be accommodated. we already have a system in the eu for the identification and traceability of each individual cow. there is clear potential to use this system to provide information on other important factors, such as the breed of the animal concerned and the conditions in which it was reared. this argument should also be considered in relation to the global dimension of the trade in animals and animal products. it is essential to share our knowledge on animal welfare with countries outside the european union and to create a consistent approach towards the issue. in this context, i was pleased to learn that the world organisation for animal health, the oie, adopted last week at its general session a five-year work programme that includes animal welfare questions. this is the first time that a broad-based international forum, like the oie, has decided to address this question. the commission strongly supports this initiative and intends to actively participate in this future development. this house is, of course, very aware of these concerns. there is an ever-increasing postbag of letters from the general public and from members of parliament on animal welfare issues. a disproportionate number of written and oral questions to the commission are also on this subject. it is our duty and responsibility to reflect on these concerns. i would like, however, to sound a word of caution on a number of fronts. there are increasing calls for more community action on animal welfare, but we should be careful that this does not distract attention from the responsibility of all parties to promote higher standards. i spoke at length on this in stockholm recently. the commission can ultimately only play a subsidiary role in relation to animal welfare. certainly, within our area of competence, we must take our responsibilities very seriously. however, member states continue to have the most important role to play since animal welfare requirements are adopted as minimum standards in european legislation. in addition, member states are responsible for the day-to-day enforcement of community legislation in this field. they also have the personnel resources to carry out this role, which the commission clearly does not have. a second qualification relates to the role of farmers and the livestock industry in general. there is a danger of stigmatising the very large number of people who work in farming by associating them with images of mistreatment of animals. this is unfair, untrue and counterproductive. ultimately, farmers are the persons in closest contact with animals and are the most conscious of their needs and behaviour. the vast majority clearly treat their animals in a good and humane manner. we can either choose to work with the farming community on these issues or risk alienating them. i know where i stand on this: work with the farmers. turning to more general issues, i would like to signal some clear commission orientations. first, animal welfare questions need to be integrated more fully into food policy. i reject the argument that animal welfare has nothing to do with food safety. i insist that it is an issue which should be included in the policy agenda of the european food authority. this applies in particular as regards scientific advice and information, which the authority should provide to the commission on all matters having a direct or indirect impact on consumer health and safety. second, there is the need for further community actions. there are a number of important initiatives already before the council and parliament, for example the proposal on improved welfare conditions for pigs reared in intensive rearing systems. this proposal includes provision for the abolition of individual sow stalls, a major and legitimate demand of welfare activists. the presidency is very anxious to reach final agreement on this proposal. this, however, requires an opinion from parliament and i hope that you will be in a position to respond favourably to the request for the urgent adoption of this opinion this week. that would provide a very positive signal of parliament's own commitment to animal welfare. there is also a proposal for improved humidity and ventilation systems on trucks transporting animals. the commission is also awaiting an opinion expected in october from the scientific committee on animal health and animal welfare on densities and travelling times. this opinion will help shape our future policy on animal transport, which will be discussed in depth in the agriculture council later this month. third, i intend to continue to focus on the global dimension in the issue of animal welfare and animal products, including the world trade organisation. there is a common misconception that this is a protectionist agenda. this is unfair. europe is progressively implementing higher welfare standards. we have a duty and a responsibility to press for recognition of these standards both on purely ethical grounds in recognition of the need for the humane treatment of animals and in recognition of the higher costs which these standards entail for producers and consumers in the european union. these are legitimate issues which deserve to be discussed on the international stage. finally, the commission will continue to press for improved respect of existing community legislation. i repeat again my frustration at the repeated reports from my officials of continued non-respect of community provisions on animal welfare. equally, the single biggest immediate and practical measure to promote animal welfare would be the strict implementation of existing legislation. this is just a brief outline of a complex and sensitive issue. thank you for your attention and i look forward to hearing your views on the issue.
mr president, madam minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. when it comes to animal welfare, nobody in europe thinks of cats in an airport cage, nobody thinks of horse transport to the olympics halfway around the world, and nobody thinks of the bird in the birdhouse on the fifth floor of the window sill. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new species. they are no longer understood by consumers, by animal welfare groups. the question is not so much why, as how. how are they transported? after many years of discussion at european level, i find that this is not a new issue. commissioner byrne, i have been a member of parliament for 12 years and we have been discussing this subject for 12 years. so we have really produced a lot of papers and resolutions. the question is: why are we making such poor progress? animal welfare is now given greater prominence than mere cost and competition orientation. unlike previous discussions on animal welfare, the agenda is not only technical but increasingly ethical. to use an illustration: we are all quite agreed on the destination of the journey, but the path on this journey is probably very rocky. i would like to say that the consumer could have made a very important contribution to this in the past by his purchasing behaviour. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has emphasized in its report that it wants to improve the control possibilities. i welcome that. the certificate for transporters, the transport plans, the control reports of the member states, all this must be brought into much closer alignment, and i expressly agree with this if the community conditions are to be introduced for third countries as well. a definition of the transport capacity of the animals or the requirements for the vehicles, the loading density, the driving and resting intervals, all this should be much more in line with new scientific findings. i am for animal welfare, and i tell you, farmers are too. they have been doing so for decades - in the way they are kept, raised and transported. mr byrne, i thank you very much for your testimony today. but what i'm against -- let me just say this in conclusion -- is the definition of how animals should feel comfortable. this will vary in the member states with the many directives we have. the chickens in germany will have to feel differently than the pigs in holland or the calves in denmark, and that cannot be! this leads to distortions of competition, and i must really speak out against this, also in the interests of farmers.
mr president, we very much welcome the fact that the subject of animal welfare is being discussed by the council and the commission in the european parliament today. the community's obligation to take full account of animal welfare requirements in its agricultural policy is enshrined in the treaty of amsterdam. the question now is whether this is sufficient for the community or whether there should be a european animal welfare framework legislation in the future. unfortunately, animal welfare is not understood in the same way everywhere. laws are one side, the actual handling and attitude to the animal the other. the responsibility for the animal is entirely human. therefore, children cannot be taught to be responsible with animals at an early age. anyone who later handles, keeps or transports animals in his or her profession must prove his or her competence by means of a certificate. animal welfare also has an impact on the competitiveness of farms. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal health standards are complied with. optimal demands, which are often made emotionally, are not always translated into practice. we must find viable solutions. the division into farm animals, breeding animals and pet animals is not accidental. economic considerations and global competition ultimately force specific conditions on animal husbandry and thus also restrictions on absolute animal welfare. however, these housing conditions must be designed to ensure the highest possible level of natural behaviour of the animals. political decisions on animal welfare can now be taken on a broad scientific basis for the different animal species. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training. in the overall view of animal welfare, the natural behaviour and requirements of animals should be consistent with environmental and consumer protection concerns, but also with an expectation of profit. the high standards of hygiene in our society must not be compromised. more consumer protection will ultimately lead to better animal welfare conditions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i very much welcome the fact that the council and the commission are holding this discussion today. i think there's been a lot of that in the past. we have discussed this problem for some time, and we have often touched upon problems of animal husbandry, breeding and protection. if we look at the process of caging chickens, we have already made substantial progress as a parliament and as the european union. i think that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. but i would caution against taking the commissioner's statement that 85% of consumers want to pay more for animal welfare at face value. that number is wrong! if i were to ask a citizen on the street, 'would you do more for animal welfare?', he would of course say, 'of course i would!' but when he's at the counter buying his steak, he sees it differently! then, first, quality and price are decisive, and everything else is irrelevant. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not helpful to attack the food producers and say that they are the bad guys, but it is actually only helpful to do what the council has said - and i think this is very important - to work on raising awareness among the public, to develop greater sensitivity to animal welfare. that is a very important point. we come to the questions of education and family upbringing. so it's a very tense field that needs to be covered. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal health sector is not affected by the introduction of new measures. we can do without it, we know this from experience. i wish us all the best in the coming days, including the new directive on the agenda. i hope that this will be another step towards better animal welfare in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. europe is going online. e-europe, e-learning, e-commerce, e-business are all the rage and increasingly dominate the political agenda. but what about e-development? finally, there is no doubt that the concentrated use of modern electronic information and communication technologies can open up entirely new prospects, particularly for developing countries. it would certainly be wrong to give false hope by declaring icbms to be a general purpose weapon. but what is undeniable is that in many countries in the south, there is the potential and the will to bridge the digital divide. this is also the urgent concern of the developing countries, and i can only say that the response to my general report on this subject in the acp assembly has been exceptional. it is about bringing the developing countries into the network on their way to the knowledge and information society. this requires a targeted strategy. we ask ourselves: where is the european dot-force analogous to the g8 summit agreement to promote developing countries' access to global communications? the fact that the european commission is supporting one or another project, albeit with some hesitation, cannot hide the fact that there is no specific strategy to involve developing countries in the knowledge and information society. the present own-initiative report aims to remedy this situation. i hope that we can enter into a fruitful dialogue with the commission on this. let me emphasize the following points: the ic must also play a key role in development cooperation. we have therefore proposed to the commission that it should set up a development unit with adequate staff to ensure continuous work in this field. it is the commission's responsibility to ensure that we are equipped with qualified staff so that we are prepared for all the challenges ahead. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the information society. this is now within reach, for the vast expanses of africa are now successfully accessible by mobile telephony, for example. solar phones in village squares are no longer necessarily wired and power-dependent, just like internet access. the new information technologies can bring the population closer to their state, they can help to improve health, education, culture, education, the environment, in any case providing in-depth information on them. but that also requires rules, and i want to make that clear in conclusion. here again we are called upon to work with the developing countries to ensure that rules are set up that are socially beneficial and not just commercial.
- i must, first of all, tell you of an unfortunate incident. you may have noticed that attendance lists have not yet been posted at the entrance to the hall. there is a technical problem with the computer which produces them and i regret to ask you to register later, for example at the time of the vote this afternoon. unfortunately, it is not otherwise. (mr ferber intervenes: the vice-president is to blame for all this!) mr. ferber, in such situations, the culprit is the official rømer, here beside me! (laughter)
- the minutes of yesterday's meeting have been distributed. are there any observations ?
- mr. sacrédeus, our services will clarify how we should deal with the problem.
- we've also heard about it.
mr president, i raised the question of question time yesterday. the president - it is in the minutes - had replied to me that two commissioners had received too few questions and had therefore been removed from the list of speakers for question time. i checked it out. mr kinnock was asked only one question. he still wants it. i have asked mrs schreyer a question, but she does not answer it, although other members have also asked questions to mrs schreyer, such as mr trakatellis. so there's something wrong with this whole story. i would ask you to look into this and to give me a clear explanation tomorrow as to why question time was cut short.
- mr. posselt, we'll have to check. (the minutes were approved) the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'common carrier'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. we have created the conditions by adopting the report last night so that if the house agrees to the urgency motion, it can be voted on this week.
, chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. the commission and the council have requested urgency. this is an urgent matter so that the necessary aid can be provided quickly. the committee voted on the report yesterday, so we can recommend urgency.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we in the committee on foreign affairs - and i believe also in agreement with the committees responsible for the debate, the committee on budgets and the committee on industry - would recommend that it be rejected. this was not communicated in time. the texts only arrived on friday. it is a first grant and it is not entirely clear from which other areas part of this money is to be drawn. this is why we need a political balance. we are also prepared to make the necessary preparations to reach a decision in july. in that sense, we recommend a rejection.
- the next item is the report (a5-0198/2001) by mr whitehead, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council (com (2000) 716 - c5-0655/2000 - 2000/0286 (cod)) laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the european food authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs and the internal market. - mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the european food authority is of fundamental importance to the people of our community. we have been saying this to each other for many months and then we add, underlining, that after the many scandals of the past, the citizens must finally be able to have confidence in their daily bread, whoever is putting it on their table. every day that this new authority is not working in the service of food safety is a day lost for the health of the people of the european union. that's why we must hurry with the preparations. we must ensure that the food authority is operational by the beginning of next year. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european parliament. the european food authority needs a foundation that is legally stable and does not make it a pawn of any interests at the stage of its creation. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to follow the vote of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and to leave the whole regulation to the codecision procedure. the approach of listening to the european parliament only from the seat of the authority is badly crafted. it also shows the intention of a game of chance between interested parties with very different motives, which can only harm our food authority. so please put a stop to the bill that has already been announced to us by the press, which is that commission president prodi intends to transfer the food authority to luxembourg as compensation for other european desks. i would ask you to vote in favour of amendment no 215, which provides for a uniform legal basis and the prevention of extraneous ambitions. (applause from the centre)
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. my group has tabled an amendment in the plenary stating that the establishment of the authority is an unforeseen expense. we also note that the financing cannot be financed without a revision of the financial perspective or a reduction in other tasks in heading 3. the amendment originated in the committee on budgets. it's important for us to send a signal that what we do must be financially viable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the one hand, the classic request, repeatedly put forward by the committee on budgets, for a recital to be inserted, which makes it clear that transparency and control and the application of the budgetary procedure must be respected in particular. there's a lot of trouble with some agencies. the environment committee also decided that the authority should be financed solely from the general budget. they want to keep the agency independent. the reasoning may be noble, but it is not realistic. because we have agencies like the fda and the fda that are funded by contributions, and they're not exactly what you'd call undercover. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it was not decided to introduce charges. the contribution to staff pensions is also lost in the revenue part of the commission's budget. the amendment requiring a financial contribution from the member state or a share in the land was also not adopted. and the agency is to submit a budget every year.
mr president, it is to be welcomed that the public debate on bse and mcs has recently been mainly informed by scientific findings and facts. the bse case in particular highlights the importance of relying on independent research resources with a long-term view. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am convinced that the choice of the right proposals for the tasks of the authority can only be made in accordance with the current research results of the national institutions. the existing food law is already complicated and will certainly not improve if it is refined by lawyers. i therefore support the introduction of the necessary funds into the budget on the basis of scientific planning. we have a good starting point for the proposal to create an authority because there is acceptance among the professional ranks of farmers and their representatives in the food industry. they agree to form the authority, which can no doubt be a good start. those who deal with farm animals and the food produced from them need a lobby which can successfully present production in the further globalisation of food markets and, above all, protect it from abuse. meeting these high societal expectations is therefore a crucial element in success or failure. consumption of meat and meat products is slowly increasing and their prices are moving in line with costs. consumers are demanding comprehensive information on the processing and health value of meat and meat products. i too see a great need for action here, since many are once again stuck in a purely commodity-money policy at the counter. meat will play a big role in the future. i like that, too. the traditional kitchen planning with the bag of food of fruit, vegetables and meat includes health ingredients in large quantities compared to the functionally produced foods. but what is the cost of healthy food? hippocrates said 2,000 years ago, "food is your medicine, and medicine is your food". i think he is still right today, and i answer the question with the price-quality claim. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. they shall be clarified in the course of the performance of the tasks of the authority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. praise the reporter and the shadow reporter! you have presented a wonderful work with seriousness and purpose. i think we have given the go-ahead for greater food safety in the european union. as rapporteur on the specific hygiene provisions, i can only rely on clear and unambiguous ideas, and that includes the fact that parliament has never called into question the legal basis of a regulation. i have emphasized this particularly because there are other ideas in the council. i would therefore like to stress once again that these and the other five regulations can only be applied by the basic regulation. we cannot accept anything else. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the foodstuffs are not used in the same way as the foodstuffs in question. the approach adopted in the regulation to make food producers more responsible for the safety and quality of their products is certainly correct, but the same should be said of the increased role of the state in the control activities. this concerns the scope and quantity of controls, but also their quality. the knowledge and skills of the inspectors must be improved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the foodstuffs are not used in the same way as the foodstuffs. food safety must be the focus, limited to the area of risk analysis. so we should not include all the areas that go beyond quality, nutritional value, etc. the location of the authority is a subject of frequent debate. parliament - whether it is involved in the decision-making process or not - has set clear criteria which must be respected, and i would point out that we must not allow a dublin-style dilemma to reoccur, namely that the authority cannot work because the framework conditions are not right.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the food safety authority is not only in the public eye today, but it must meet its lofty goal in the near future. it will not be responsible for criminal activities, for dishonesty, for black sheep. i think that the commission has a duty to take account of the fact that the food safety directive is not being applied in the member states. no, i would argue that in our member states we have never been able to choose from such a rich and secure range of products in any generation. food safety is not something you can control. you have to produce them. that is why i am in favour of clear and stringent measures. from the producer to the consumer, from the barn to the counter, from me to the kitchen - all aspects of the food production chain, including the agricultural intermediate products, the processing in the food industry, the sale to the final consumer and also the offer in restaurants, canteens, etc. - should be subject to much stricter controls. traceability of food throughout the food production chain must be ensured. this morning - and perhaps in the future - we shall be discussing the subject of the food safety authority. we ask ourselves whether it is an agency or an authority, we ask where the food safety authority is located, we ask ourselves what the division of powers is between the national authorities and how the work will be linked up. last but not least, it is also about the authority of the authority. my constituents will ask me, i hope this is not a new paper tiger. i hope that we will be able to preserve the cultural diversity of foodstuffs while respecting the safety and hygiene rules. i really wish this new institution success; we are not going to be left empty-handed by the next scandal any time soon.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on agriculture and rural development. - mr president, i have to go. if we had had this regulation 10 or 15 years ago and had followed it, if the member states had implemented it, there would be no bse. we could have saved ourselves billions of dollars and many times the suffering that has been inflicted on animals and people. i would like to add a few flowers to this. first of all, i would like to thank mrs paulsen. i have rarely seen such good technical and collegial cooperation in my long years of parliamentary work. i have always found it a great pleasure to enter into the debate on these amendments and proposals for improvement. i also thank commissioner byrne. the commission was somewhat late in coming, but you personally got to work and put forward a good proposal. i would also like to thank the european parliament for its consistency on this matter, in the committee of inquiry, in the resolutions we have drawn up here, and not least for its consistency in the sense that we have now reached codecision on this matter. i have the impression - and this is not to diminish your merit, mr byrne - that wherever the codecision procedure is applied, the commission's proposals are more specific, more correct and better adapted to the will and work of the european parliament, and it serves as an example of the work we should be doing here as a whole. i would also like to point out that the committee on agriculture will be particularly attentive to the fact that materials imported from third countries or exported to third countries must also be subject to these strict safety measures and that we need a financial regulation which ensures equal treatment for all agricultural holdings within the european union in the disposal of risk material.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. in our efforts to achieve openness, clarity and transparency in animal feed, we are gradually approaching the heart of the matter, which is the question: what is allowed in animal feed and what is prohibited? commissioner byrne, you have made it clear in the context of the bse crisis that animal material which is not fit for human consumption must not be allowed to be used in animal feed. this is the logical consequence of our knowledge of the food chain. i thank the commission for its resolute proposal which divides animal by-products into three categories. it would have been much easier to ban them all. the german government, for example, has chosen this path. but the eu is taking the more sensible path here, although - we know - it is also the more difficult one. the materials of the three categories must be separately identified, stored, handled and marketed. in our experience, such a requirement also requires controls. the rapporteur is repeating the wording of the directive on controls of feedingstuffs in the european union, which we must not undermine in any way, namely that commission experts can carry out on-the-spot checks in cooperation with the authorities in the member states. the result justifies the effort, the result being that valuable nutrient carriers are not simply destroyed, but are used for useful purposes - this also applies to kitchen waste - that on the other hand, what is not part of the food chain is discarded and destroyed. one thing is clear: we must ensure that the feed is used in a way that is appropriate to the animals, which means that we are against cannibalism. this too must be prevented by checks. i thank mrs paulsen for her report, which gives more specific details on important points of the commission's proposal, and i hope that it will receive the clear support of the members. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. animal by-products which are in principle suitable for human consumption must continue to be used as animal feed after appropriate treatment. i cannot understand why they should want to ban this valuable source of protein for ever. i am, however, in favour of the current temporary ban on the feeding of animal meal! the strict application of the rules and controls in force shall be ensured. if this is guaranteed, further use of animal meal should be possible. another specific point is the recycling of food scraps, i.e. food waste from large-scale restaurants and catering companies. for decades, they have been used to make high-quality pig feed. this must be possible in the future. i therefore support amendment no 102 by the green group. finally, a few words on the prevention of cannibalism in animals: the separation of animal species from the material used for animal meal is, in my view, difficult to achieve. pigs, chickens, fish, etc., eat their own kind without scruple. i am very much surprised that human ethical standards are now being demanded of animals. i hope we're being realistic here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them into account.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not contaminated by bse and mcs. these by-products are mainly animal meal. the commission has drawn up a proposal for a conditional, i.e. graduated, ban on animal meal in feedingstuffs and fertilisers. mrs paulsen has elaborated this very well. the three-stage classification is to be welcomed, as is the fact that the commission only authorizes the use of stage 1 flour after sterilization at 133°c and 3 bar for 20 minutes. the commission proposal, as amended by the committee, is therefore in line with the bse committee's call for a strict separation of animal waste into 'waste suitable for human consumption' and waste from dead and sick animals. food-grade slaughter waste is a valuable source of protein that we should not be doing without. omnivores are really omnivores. we shouldn't be re-educating them. animal meal for ruminants is of course taboo. we need a responsible and controlled technique for the production and processing of animal meal, and we need more research. if we follow this regulation and implement it in the member states, it will be a good basis for ensuring confidence in our food and providing our consumers with a good supply of food. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to congratulate commissioner byrne on the short time he has taken to get this done, but we have not received much because the interpreters have not been able to keep up with the pace you have set. we must find some way of getting the commission's comments to us - either we have to shorten them or we have to give them more time. we should not tolerate this practice in the long term. that is not reasonable either for the commissioner or for us who have to listen to him here!
- mr president, i have to go. i was very surprised to hear this morning that a group of three vice-presidents had decided to refer the question of social security, which is clearly a matter of competition, to the legal affairs committee. the rules of procedure state that the committee on economic and monetary affairs is responsible for competition matters. the proposal for the social security scheme in question was indeed put forward by the commissioner responsible, mario monti. our rapporteur, mr langen, who has been working on this for months and has now submitted a report, is now surprised to learn that another committee is responsible. i would like to make it quite clear that a group of three vice-presidents has no power to suspend the rules of procedure. (applause from the centre) i therefore ask that we proceed in accordance with the rules of procedure and that the conference of presidents deal with this matter. it is not the only question that concerns the jurisdiction of the legal affairs committee, which is to be extended. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre)
commission. – mr president, the proposal we are discussing today, together with the directives on large combustion plants and national emission ceilings, forms an important part of the community's ongoing efforts to clean up air over europe. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr davies, for his hard and dedicated work on this important and complex issue. the proposal sets target values and long-term objectives for ozone in ambient air. while the long-term objectives are based on the latest advice from the world health organization, the target values have been set with regard to the best attainable air quality. in doing so, the transboundary nature of ozone and cost-efficiency aspects have been taken into account. as i mentioned earlier, this proposal is closely related to the proposal for a directive on national emission ceilings where conciliation negotiations are currently under way and we have to recognise the difficulty of finding a solution for linked issues, for example the target values for ozone, in the absence of a definitive outcome. at its first reading in march last year, parliament presented a well-considered report including 18 amendments. council's common position adopted in march 2001 takes due account of most of parliament's concerns. now 32 amendments have been tabled to the text of the common position. amendments nos 4, 15 and the first part of amendment no 23 all seek to turn the target values into binding limit values. in light of the insufficient scientific knowledge on ozone formation, the commission cannot accept any of those amendments. on the other hand we can accept in principle amendments nos 30 and 31 requiring binding target values, save where physically impossible. however, we would also have to bear in mind that target values would not be attained where it is not efficient from an economic viewpoint. with regard to the target values, it is not acceptable for the commission to keep 20 days as the target value for the protection of human health. the commission agreed on council's common position on national emission ceilings, which result in 25 days as an attainable target. therefore the commission cannot accept the second part of amendment no 23. moreover, amendment no 23 would set 2020 as a binding target year to attain the long-term objectives. amendments nos 3, 5 and 15 follow the same intention. as there is there is no scientific evidence yet to prove this aim to be feasible, the commission cannot accept those amendments. however, the commission agrees on the general aim fully to close the gap between long-term objectives and current ozone levels and could accept amendments nos 2 and 6. amendments nos 26 to 31 would require attainment of the long-term objectives, save where physically impossible. again, this would have to be complemented by taking account of economic efficiency as well. therefore, those amendments could only be accepted in principle. several amendments would enforce the obligations of member states to report to the public and the commission. the commission welcomes these amendments if the requirements are considered feasible and useful. the commission therefore could accept amendments nos 8, the second part of 10 and 16. amendment no 11 would be acceptable in part. amendment no 17, in principle. amendment 32 would complement amendment no 17 in a way that is acceptable. the first part of amendment no 10 and amendments nos 18 to 20 and 25 are not acceptable. amendments nos 12 and 14 both clarify responsibilities in setting up short-term action plans and are acceptable in part and in principle. the last part of amendment no 12 and amendment no 13 are acceptable in stressing the role of guidance on examples for short-term actions. the commission accepts amendment no 24, which supports a more effective trigger value to initiate short-term actions. there are four amendments on other issues. among those the commission cannot accept is amendment no 1, as it is directed towards candidate countries, which is not appropriate for an eu directive. we can accept amendment no 7 on tightening requirements to maintain air quality. amendment no 21 would require a direct comparison between the performance of member states in improving air quality and the commission could not accept this amendment as the proposed comparison is not considered appropriate, in particular, with regard to the transboundary nature of ozone. as amendment no 33 incorporates those aspects, it could be accepted in principle. however, no direct comparison of member states should be required. finally, amendment no 22 requires special attention to the effects of ozone on human health and the environment and the commission accepts this amendment. i consider it essential to put this legislation in place soon, so that appropriate monitoring can start. member states need to be able to identify problem areas, so that they can make sure that the public's health is properly protected in the future throughout the union. hopefully a valid compromise will soon be found, having regard to the outcome of the conciliation negotiations on the directive on national emission ceilings.
mr president, i should like to say a few introductory words and then perhaps to come to the point of our oral question. we have submitted an oral question on behalf of the committee. the main point here is that we in the committee have criticised the council's decision to call for the establishment of a panel under the article 133 procedure to investigate whether section 211 of the us trademark act is in conflict with the trips agreement. we did not go into the substance of the matter - there were indeed contradictions and considerable discussions in the committee - but we focused primarily on saying that we wanted to be fully informed and involved in the decision-making structures of the council and the committee in accordance with article 133 in the future. we believe that this is particularly necessary in the area of trade policy. as you all know, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, and the council representative also, we are only involved to a limited extent by parliament when it comes to trade matters. we have had our dispute on this subject for many years - essentially with the council and less with the commission. in this case, the issue was whether we could provide support in a dispute between pernod/ricard and bacardi, a primarily european-cuban holding company, and a primarily american/european company, by means of a procedure. the council has made a clear statement on this and has also received support from the commission, in favour of pernod/ricard. we have not taken a position on this in the committee. we have only said that we would have liked to have been informed before the procedure and before the panel was set up, so that we could then have taken a reasoned and well-founded position on the part of parliament on the council and commission's decision. i would add that the commission, and especially commissioner lamy, has kept us informed on a regular basis. we have not criticised the commission in this respect. the main point is perhaps - and that is why this is so important to us - that section 211 is a case that relates to the conflict we have had with the americans over the helms-burton act for a long time. it's about the application of an extraterritorial law. in this respect, we have the political support for the commission and council procedures, but - as i have already said - not for the lack of information to parliament and the committee. why is this so important? you see that on both sides, both the american and the european side, the political leaders are increasingly being made to support the decisions of the governments. it is very, very important for us to make it clear that if you want parliament's and the committee's support, you can only secure it in the future if you also inform parliament and the committee fully. the need for this is shown by the letter that many of our colleagues - i think there were over 100 - wrote to both the american government and the council. it was not only the council's procedure that was criticised, but also the content itself. i would therefore urge the council to do everything possible in future to ensure that parliament is always fully informed, and to extend this obligation to include the fact that when you submit a case, you must come to the committee or to parliament and inform parliament accordingly, so that there is full transparency.
the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to remind the house on behalf of the council that under article 133 of the treaty the council takes decisions on the common commercial policy on the basis of a proposal from the commission. we in the council are well aware of the wishes expressed on several occasions by parliament for the procedure for decisions on the common commercial policy. these requests have been examined and assessed very carefully. as we all know, they were also discussed at the intergovernmental conference which concluded its work in nice on 7 and 9 december 2000. the amendments to the treaty text agreed by this intergovernmental conference have not affected this aspect of article 133. it should also be noted that the vast majority of member states did not consider it necessary to amend the article in this respect. in addition to the obligations laid down in the treaty, the council provides for transparency. in particular, at meetings with the chairman of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, the council regularly informs parliament of matters of importance to the community's trade policy and, in accordance with the so-called westerterp procedure of 1973, informs parliament of negotiations on trade agreements with third countries before they are opened, during the negotiations and after they have been concluded. i would also like to note that the swedish minister for trade, leif pagrotsky, will have two meetings with the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy during the swedish presidency. in addition, representatives of the european parliament were invited to the ministerial meeting of the euro-mediterranean council on 29 may 2001. furthermore, the chairman of the committee on rule 133 invited all members of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy to an informal meeting on 31 may 2001.
mr president, commissioner, representatives of the council, ladies and gentlemen! the eu-us wto procedure on the havana club case, i.e. section 211, highlights the need for the council to inform and involve parliament at important stages of the common commercial policy. the council has failed, in contrast to the commission, to take the necessary steps to inform parliament fully and promptly of the adoption of a common position. otherwise he would apply the second and third paragraphs of article 300, last sentence, by analogy and inform us of such important matters. the council's insistence on its present practice does not mean that it is not acting in accordance with its parliamentary responsibility to the member states and to us. this is an untenable situation and we demand that this be changed! in this case - and erika mann has already said this - the failure of the council to provide information has led to a great many individual expressions of opinion in the european parliament which, in my view, did not conform to the majority opinion of the committee on external economic relations and which, in general, have contributed to a great deal of uncertainty about the council's position in the european parliament. the council has therefore failed to inform, created uncertainty and also given the partners, in this case the united states, a chance to weaken the commission's position, i do not want to say weaken it, but at any rate to make it less clear-cut than it is. so i think that in the long run we cannot avoid a reasonable change in procedure. we are merely exercising the control function of parliament. we are responsible for parliamentary control and the implementation of the common commercial policy, and we should be able to exercise this control better in the future. if the commission keeps us informed, it is not enough, as the swedish minister for trade has done, to come to us and discuss matters in general with us, without involving us, for example, in the informal talks of the ministers for trade. we have had the opportunity, for example, under the portuguese presidency to be invited to this. i think the swedish president-in-office has a commitment to make. as a spokesman for the epp group, i would like to reiterate explicitly that we actually support the commission's approach to information, but also to defending the interests of the european union vis-à-vis the united states in the dispute settlement procedure, as has now been demonstrated. the council has not informed us of this common position, as i have already said, contrary to the announcement made by mr pagrotsky. so i think that we should, in practical terms, conclude that: the council should not only in words but also in deeds accept parliament as an equal partner in matters of the common commercial policy, in particular by adopting the right legal basis for all measures implementing the common commercial policy, namely article 133 now in conjunction with article 3 and article 300 (2) and (3), new version, which can also be applied by analogy, which can also be done with a certain willingness to cooperate. secondly, the council should allow the commission to ask parliament for an opinion before adopting a negotiating mandate - as in the case of the havana club. then we can begin the dialogue and bring it to a satisfactory conclusion. we also believe that an interinstitutional agreement, such as we have concluded with the commission, is necessary until the treaty is finally amended. finally, i would like to point out that the next revision of the treaty of nice - i hope in laeken - will be in the form of article 133, which will involve the european parliament in the orientation, implementation and conclusion phases of important decisions on trade policy. this proposal is also contained in article 28 of the report by mr méndez de vigo/seguro on the conclusions of the treaty of nice, and we will insist that this be incorporated into the treaty as soon as possible.
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to take up a point made by my colleague konrad schwaiger. i also believe - and i am speaking here on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists - that it is necessary to redefine the council's accountability. we all know that formally, of course - and you have argued that - the council has done the right thing in not having to formally consult parliament at this stage. i think we are not talking about formal procedures here, but about sensible political cooperation in terms of content. i believe that the council still has a lot to do with parliament in terms of reasonable cooperation. i would like the council to avoid always retreating to the formal position in future, but to find an interinstitutional procedure for us to cooperate properly in the field of trade policy in the future. what you saw this time, you'll see more often in the future. but don 't get your hopes up . trade policy is becoming more and more comprehensive, and much is going beyond trade policy and becoming international policy. the many trade disputes with the united states are a good example of this. if you want parliament to be on your side - and the commission has parliament on its side in terms of content, as my colleague mr konrad schwaiger said - then you must also ensure that we can work together in a decent way in terms of content. they need to see us as adult partners, even if the contract doesn't say so in the form. i think we have always found ways of working together interinstitutionally in the past. i would like the council to take this step and find a new procedure. it may be that we will always give advice or information after the meeting of the 133rd committee. or, if you're going to initiate formal proceedings, you can come to the committee and inform them. i think that would be a way of working together, and you would take away a lot of the focus that we have in the debate at the moment, which i think is completely unnecessary. we are all in agreement on the substance of the matter. i hope that many of the colleagues who signed the letter will now see that they were wrong. i would therefore urge the council to take a step forward today and to call for a new form of cooperation.
the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. let me say that the council appreciates this opportunity to discuss with the honourable members the important question of how we are to design the union's trade policy in an effective but also open and transparent way. in the debate here in the house i have noticed two different trends. one trend, represented by mr schwaiger, among others, is that we must change the procedure. i assume schwaiger means we need to change the rules. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. i do not see, however, any other way of approaching this question than to actually start from what is provided for in the treaty and article 133. since we live in a society governed by the rule of law, we cannot do anything but take as a starting point what is stated in the treaty. of course, you may feel that perhaps this should have been changed. i therefore gave a brief account of the discussions on the amendments to the treaty text made in nice, and there is a good chance that i will come back to that. we are facing an intergovernmental conference in 2004. schwaiger is already hoping for change in laeken. it may be a little optimistic, but as i said, we have an intergovernmental conference in 2004. let's get back to this discussion then. what are our options if we cannot get there by the formal route? has the council done enough to go informal, to keep parliament informed and to give parliament an opportunity to participate in the debate? of course, there is always room for improvement in transparency and consultation, but i would just like to note with some regret that on two occasions during the swedish presidency, when we have invited people to a dialogue on the issues i mentioned at the beginning of my speech, there have been zero people from parliament. there is an english expression which says 'it takes two to tango', and i think that applies in these contexts as well. the council has shown that it is willing to engage in dialogue. unfortunately, parliament and the representatives of the committees concerned did not consider it interesting enough to participate in such a dialogue. i can only regret that. it is only a reason for us to maintain this dialogue to ensure that we have a consultation procedure which respects what is said in the treaty. we are also looking for informal ways of achieving the democratic anchoring we all want in the important trade policy issues.
mr president, i would have very much liked to have let the debate between your assembly and the council take place without the commission's intervention in this matter, in which the commission has a perfectly clear conscience, but mr clegg's intervention and the somewhat abrasive tone of his remarks oblige me to make some clarifications. i would remind you, as regards procedure, that the decision to initiate such a procedure in the wto is within the commission's executive competence. we have taken this decision in full compliance with the rules of the treaty, which are what they are, as long as they have not been changed. the commission, as you know, wanted to change them, the council decided otherwise and so far, as far as amendments to the treaty are concerned, it is the governments of the member states who decide. so we followed the procedure exactly. the committee, the council's advisory body, supported the launch of this procedure in march and confirmed its position in june 2000. as mrs mann and mr schwaiger have said, there has been a lot of exchanges of views between the commission and its services and the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy on this wto case. i myself have answered the oral and written questions put by members of this house. i have in fact met with some members of this house to discuss this matter with them. in order to be absolutely clear and to give my own opinion in this debate, i would remind you, as necessary, that it was not a question of taking sides for this or that company, for this or that particular interest, whatever its legitimacy might be, but of assessing, from the point of view of the interests of the union in general, the conformity of us trademark law with the wto code. that is why i considered, and i said it before the industry committee at the time, that the parallel intervention of parliamentarians in a wto procedure seemed strange, even inappropriate, and i indicated at the time, and i say it again before you today, that i consider that a proper exchange of information between us should have the effect of avoiding the repetition of this kind of incident in the future.
mr president, since i have been directly addressed by mr danielsson, i should like to respond to two points. first of all, i would like to thank the swedish presidency very much for the invitation recently extended by its ambassador in brussels to an informal meeting of the committee of 133. however, this was a cocktail and not a sitting, and i have indicated, also to the chairman of the ambassadors, that it might not be appropriate to do this on thursday evening when the members are returning to their constituencies after a plenary session. but you can improve that, and you can find another day of the week soon. that's the first point. so, thank you very much for the initiative of your diplomats! secondly, you say that things have to change, and they have to change not now, but in 2004. but remember, mr danielsson, we have a world trade forum in qatar now, we have a ministerial conference, the american congress will be represented. the us congress has not yet approved fast track. that means that the american congress has a direct opportunity to intervene in qatar at this moment. we in the european parliament are no longer sufficiently informed by you. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty, and it has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty. they no longer have national control, they no longer have european control ... (the president withdraws the speaker from the floor.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am grateful for this debate, but i would like to make two points. i am just as concerned as my colleague, who was informed of the one meeting to which you invited us, and which we were, of course, delighted to attend. but in fact it was a cocktail on thursday afternoon, with the corresponding difficulties. when i appeared, the door was already closed. i had a conversation to have before and couldn't be there at the beginning. it would be delightful if you could make a suggestion next time to find a better procedure so that we can all actually be present. i would be grateful if you could tell me again what the second meeting was. i have no knowledge of that. my colleague konrad schwaiger has not referred to it, and i therefore assume that he is not aware of it either. perhaps you'd be so kind as to tell us what meeting it was to which you invited our committee. i would like to say to my colleagues - i know this is no longer a question but a very brief comment - that i would like you to really regard parliament as a political heavyweight and to treat it accordingly. we understand that we do not have the opportunity or the right to do so, but i think you can consider us an equal partner in political terms.
the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in my opening remarks i mentioned the two informal meetings. one took place on 29 may and the other on 31 may. i'm sorry if the day was inappropriately chosen for the one occasion. i would also point out that the council's presence here in plenary is never a question of the appropriate day, but of the council being present at all times, no matter when. of course, it is in the council's interest that we have a functioning informal dialogue with parliament on these issues. i have tried to describe some of the measures taken by the swedish presidency. i am convinced that the forthcoming presidencies will work in the same spirit.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i will soon join the ranks of trade politicians, then at least i will be invited to a cocktail. but i can also join in this debate because we must see that we also want to have a stronger parliamentary involvement in the area we are now discussing, namely asem. we therefore propose in our report that a second asep parliamentary conference should be held before the asem iv meeting. the european parliament has always used clever executives in this game when it comes to foreign or trade policy. in this context, we therefore ask in this report - and this is one of our main concerns - that the council and in particular the commission should keep the european parliament informed of developments. in particular, they should also report on the implementation of the decisions of the respective meetings, so that progress can be accelerated, including through a parliamentary scrutiny process to be achieved on such information. i believe that this is in the common interest because this particular area of asem is of such extraordinary importance. if the two stable groups, the european union in europe and asean in asia, work together with other countries in asia and come to close cooperation in such important areas as the three pillars defined there, namely politics, economy and culture, this can be of unprecedented importance for stability in these regions and in the world as a whole. so i think we should take this asean process as seriously as possible and give it a high weight and a higher priority. let me give you a few more examples. if we can make some proposals in the political field at asem iii, which we are talking about here, and then also in preparation for asem iv - for example in the field of prevention - then i think we can do a lot here. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i believe that in such a multilateral process we can make an important joint contribution to peaceful developments and decisions that benefit the people of the region concerned, but also to peaceful development in the world as a whole. i would just like to remind you of the issue of the proliferation of weapons; the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union, and it is also a member of the european union. if we succeed in bringing this political process inwards and implementing the commitments in the sense of the rule of law, democracy and human rights, this will be of great importance, not only in the sense of human rights and the rule of law, but for the stabilization of the entire region. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the countries of central and eastern europe, which is to be submitted to the council in the near future. they should ensure stability in the financial services sector and, in trade agreements, ensure that social standards are gradually raised overall, thus contributing to a fairer world. if we succeed in doing more in the third pillar, in the field of cultural relations, also by involving people, groups, cultural workers, in order to bring people together in this way, because cultural relations lead to bonds, then this seems to be another important starting point for making our decisive contribution to the stabilization of our world. we call on the commission to present concrete proposals for the next asem conference in its working document on the 10-year development plan in the context of asem and to discuss them with us. commissioner patten, i am sure that we will do this in a joint dialogue and on the basis of your experience in this region, so that we can contribute to a better world.
- the proposal for a regulation (com (89) 6 final) on the common organization of the market in bananas; i fully agree with what the chairman of the committee has just said: the asem process is an important means of dialogue between the eu and the asian countries. but frankly, we should also admit that the results of the asem-3 summit in seoul last year were not terribly significant. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i fully agree with the chairman of the committee on this. i think we would be allies, commissioner, if we asked you to submit a report on the preparations for asem 4 so that we both, the commission and parliament, as we say in hamburg, can put a little butter on the fish, and bring substance to the preparations for asem 4 in copenhagen next year. we ask you to give us a very substantial report as soon as possible so that we can debate with you and with the council what really needs to be done. let me make one more remark. i would like to take up again what mr brok said about conflict prevention, conflict prevention, but also conflict resolution. we're here to help each other. i would just like to remind you that the japanese are investing a great deal of development aid in south-east europe - in our country - to show their commitment to security policy, and we should not be afraid to speak up and help resolve conflicts, whether in china, taiwan, north or south korea. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we on the european side will soon be eighteen, twenty states. we should see the balance. i therefore think it is important that we consider how the asian side could also be able to take on more members. i believe, for example, that a country like india, with its importance in terms of population, but also in terms of democratic structure and experience, could be a good partner. perhaps you could discuss this with your asian colleagues in advance of asem 4 so that we can cover both geographical areas in a balanced way. i think we can agree that we must bring into the political debate the fact that asia's relations with europe are of crucial importance and that we should help each other in this respect. i would like to conclude by referring once again to what mr brok said at the beginning. relations between states are, of course, formally negotiated between governments. but i say to the heads of government that officials and ministers need the support of the members of parliament. that's why this idea of the committee... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this report gives the european parliament the opportunity to debate the asem process and to comment on its outcomes. this new partnership between europe and asia offers both sides a great opportunity to deepen and strengthen their relations, not only economically but also politically, socially and culturally. the third asem summit in seoul has already shown that political aspects such as human rights, democracy and the rule of law have not only been the subject of fruitful dialogue between partners in the asem process, but have also led to commitments by asem leaders. it will not surprise anyone that our parliament, which has for years placed these values at the centre of its work, attaches particular importance to ensuring that these values are respected by the council and the commission and that the council and the commission do everything possible to ensure that these values become the subject of a permanent political dialogue with the asian partners within the asem process. at a time when the european union is talking almost exclusively about enlargement, i think it is very appropriate to say that this asem process and the circle of partners within the asem process are also being extended to include countries such as india, which would also deserve to be included in this dialogue. i would like to comment on two points which i believe have been the subject of unjustified negotiations and occasional protests by the chinese embassy. the fact that we require visas from taiwanese politicians for personal visits to europe is not recognition of the republic of taiwan or anything else, but a consistent position of europe on the question of the freedom of movement of citizens, especially if taiwan should become a member of the world trade organisation in the future after china. finally, commissioner, i would like to draw your attention to the old request of the european parliament: we have always said that we must have such relations with a region like taiwan, with which we have very intensive economic relations in europe, that a representation, that is to say an information office, must also be set up there.
- mr president, i have to go. the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. we know the trouble parliament has had to come to this report. i would like to mention a few moments. first, the history of the 20th century has left deep traces in asia that have not been healed to this day. the bloody suppression of the boxer rebellion in china, the occupation of manchuria, the korean war and the aggression against vietnam have been associated with the names of states that belong to the exclusive club of the great of this earth: the united states, germany, japan. it is a strange approach to the role and responsibility of states, for example, if the eu wants to assign to japan in this story a sort of regulatory role in asia. it is equally strange that the eu does not distance itself more decisively from the confrontational course pursued by the usa, for example, with its spy flights against china. secondly, the future of asia depends to a large extent on a harmonious relationship and a balance of interests between china, india and russia. i think that attempts to play these countries off against each other are very dangerous, especially for europe. a sustainable asian policy must aim at partnership and constructive dialogue, not least with the people's republic of china. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the two world regions, the european union and asia, have made their way together and have collided. as sensational as the first asem meeting was, relations are now becoming normal in many areas. i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. i would therefore like to remind you once again that this european parliament once demanded and also insisted that just as there is a summit between the governments, there must also be a summit between the parliaments. i think it is absolutely essential that contacts between the parliaments in europe and in asia be strengthened and that we really come to a strict follow-up of these important common policies here, at the latest before the next asem summit in copenhagen, even if they have some contradictory foundations. i think this is really essential, because both regions have an important role to play in the reform of the united nations and also in the reform of the world trade organization. both regions have a great interest in progress also in the area of security for the population and for the peoples. i am thinking both of food security and of the fight against organised crime. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. fortunately, we were able to provide a stimulus to security policy reflection in asean, but also in the entire asian region. i am also concerned about helping to combat trafficking in human beings. we are now dealing with millions of people who have been abducted, and it is not just women and children who are being abducted, but men as well. i think both regions of the world have a responsibility here to put an end to this form of free movement in this world. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in conclusion, i would like to point out that the european union's action in this important region of the world is accompanied by considerable expectations. it is not that we can freely decide whether to engage or not to engage without harm, but rather that the states in this part of asia have very specific and well-founded expectations that the europeans will engage in this part of the world. these expectations exist because there is the established existence of the security and economic power of the united states of america, and because there is china, which is gaining influence. in this game of power, the expectations of many countries in south-east asia are that the europeans too will think about establishing a strategic partnership, as the asians call it, with the obvious aim of having a stabilizing effect, of creating a balance between the great powers that exist there and in the interests of the asian states. these people have had their first experience of a stormy economic progress, which was then slowed down by the crisis, and now they see that they have a chance to overcome this crisis. they also see the great need to join others in this way of overcoming the crisis, not least the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are not free to say, no, we do this or we do not do that, but we have an obligation to engage in this part of the world. and that has great potential. if we act there, not as colonialists as in the past, but as partners willing to bring their own experience to that of another continent, then we will be heard. europeans must not let this opportunity pass under any circumstances!
adopted by the commission on 27 june. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the committee on development and cooperation considers that the european union delegations were originally formed by the inspectors responsible for implementing the yaoundé and lomé conventions, and that their initial role was purely development-related. over the years, the scope of the project has been considerably extended and the geographical area of its activities has been considerably enlarged. the content of the report has not kept pace with this. the commission's communication on the future of the european union is a good example of this. development policy is no longer the sole remit of the eu external action service, but it remains of paramount importance. the disintegration of the blocs and the changing political processes in the developing countries have considerably increased the political, commercial and economic dimensions. this is particularly true of the development partnership with the acp countries, for which the cotonou agreement has set new emphases. but it is precisely in this respect that there is a lack of qualified training for delegation staff, and it is precisely here that the necessary concepts for flexible staffing are lacking, including local staff with university degrees or external experts, and, where appropriate, temporary contracts for a specific task. in practice, however, delegations in the acp countries have been and are threatened with demotion or even closure. many posts remain unoccupied for long periods of time, without at least temporary recourse to appropriate local staff. this is even criticised by the european court of auditors. the committee on development and cooperation therefore sees the danger that the creation of new regional priorities and the favouring of regional offices - for which there may be good reasons - could in practice lead to a thinning of the delegation structures in the developing countries. it is obvious that regional offices are cheaper than several individual offices. however, there is no evidence that they are more effective. the commission's communication is again weak in its conceptual approach. the commission has a further debt of gratitude in terms of content. the report by mr galeote and the decisions of the committees consulting him provide an excellent basis for this.
- mr president, commissioner, and rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i should like to thank our rapporteur on behalf of the group of the european people's party. he has once again presented an excellent report on the foreign service, and i hope, commissioner, that you will listen to me and to my colleague galeote quecedo and that you will draw a wonderful conclusion from the galeote report, namely to give clear answers. i think we can all agree that we need to get away from history. we must come to the functions of the delegation today, based on the functions of the union. we have had maastricht with the second pillar of foreign and security policy, we have greater responsibility in the field of world trade policy. we must therefore ensure that delegations are set up in all the major political and economic partner countries. i therefore return to the discussion which took place a few minutes ago. i think we need more delegations, particularly in the asian area. mr galeote's report suggests singapore and taipei as the places where we should open delegations as soon as possible. to return to what mr sakellariou said about taipei, taiwan is the eu's 14th largest trading partner and an example of how a society in asia can transform itself from an authoritarian regime into a vibrant parliamentary democracy. this is an excellent example of how the principles of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights are working in asia and are even wanted by the countries themselves. so it is high time that we also opened an office in taiwan. so delegations in singapore, taiwan and, as mr galeote has mentioned, other regions of the world. what i want is for you to make it very clear when you send us the next draft, the countries and the dates and where and when you think delegations should be opened. if there's no money, you say, "we need the money". then we must discuss here whether we can start a dispute between brothers with our colleague bourlanges and convince him. but we need a report that clearly states in which countries, in which year and in which month, and then we will follow it up and build a sensible foreign service for the union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank you, commissioner lamy, for your comments. you have almost answered part of my question which is now coming up. i would like to return to the incentive model in the gsp, the general system of preferences, which has been extended to include the area of 'social and environmental'. i have heard that this programme, which i think is very useful, has not yet received the desired response in the countries concerned. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second question is: can we assess to what extent the large free trade area from alaska to tierra del fuego, which is planned by the united states and in which tariffs are to be reduced to zero - if they ever come into effect - would affect or promote trade with us, particularly under the generalized system of preferences? has the commission given any thought to this? a very brief question on the wto: it has been written recently that it is good to see a decision in qatar to open a new round of negotiations in various fields. can you say anything else about that?
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for the careful preparation of the report. i'm sure the other shadow reporters have their share of it. i am grateful to the rapporteur for calling a group of 32 members of parliament, of which i am one, narrow-minded individuals. however, i would like to reject this name here. i would like to express some reservations on behalf of a minority in our group against the proposal. it is proposed that, in an extreme case, an official who has worked for the commission for 10 years, is 50 years old, is to be sent into early retirement for 15 years with a salary of 65% of his remuneration. we believe that such a lucrative, generous early retirement pension cannot be justified to the european taxpayer. if we have been talking all day in the corridors about the irish referendum, if we are talking about citizenship here, who can explain to a pensioner who has been contributing to his pension scheme for 40 years how it is justified that an a3 official of 50 years of age and 5500 euros a month can go for a walk? i am also not able to understand why the commission, with its 18 000 posts, is unable to employ 600 officials who are obviously no longer fit for duty. i am not sure that the commission is prepared to accept this amendment. because i'm afraid there will be some clever, cunning, and smart officials who will be able to profit from this golden handshake. in the end, the good guys will leave, the bad guys will stay, 16 million euros will be spent, and everyone will be embarrassed!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, mr harbour, very warmly. it has become an excellent report and mr harbour has really been able, through constructive proposals and also intensive negotiations with colleagues, to work out a good compromise which has met with broad support in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and - i am sure - will also find broad support in the plenary tomorrow. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first topic is the scope of the universal service obligation. first of all, it is welcome that the universal service should be simple but not broadband internet connections. in some parts of the community, the infrastructure required for broadband connections cannot yet be developed or technically upgraded in the next few years. in addition, some of the demand for such connections is not yet sufficient. therefore, it should also be left to market forces to provide such connections without regulatory constraints. competition in the area of local area networks and thus in the area of internet access has been made possible by the regulation on the unbundling of local area networks. it is now important to apply this directive as quickly and consistently as possible so that a satisfactory number of broadband connections can be made available quickly and cost effectively. there is an amendment 9 from the committee on legal affairs and the internal market on article 4 (a) which, unfortunately, i think is going in the wrong direction, namely to include high-speed internet access in the universal service obligation. it provides that member states are to impose data transmission rates which are in line with the state of the art. i think that this proposal is too far-reaching for the reasons i have given. i welcome the fact that the directive will in future include a european regional code 3883. i believe that this is a communication element to promote our internal market here too. i also welcome the number portability in the mobile sector. this has also been mentioned by mr van velzen. i can only hope that mr harbour's report will be widely accepted tomorrow. all in all, this is a really good job!
the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. almost six months ago i spoke for the first time in parliament about the objectives of the swedish presidency. since then we have had a close and constructive discussion on the future of europe, on the three 'es' - enlargement, employment, the environment - on openness and reform, on crisis management and conflict prevention, on the debate on the future, on democracy, development and human rights. i regret that parliament has cancelled the debate we should have had today on human rights, which was a major priority for the swedish presidency. the european council meeting in gothenburg will of course also be dominated by questions about the future of europe. first, i would like to say a few words about enlargement - europe's historic commitment and the most important issue for the future. it is a matter of credibility for the whole union that our work programme, which six months ago was considered very ambitious, by some even unrealistic, will be fulfilled. common eu positions have been established on all nine chapters set out in the swedish presidency's roadmap, including several difficult issues such as the free movement of persons, the acquisition of real estate and, not least, the environment. we have been able to close the chapter on the mobility of persons with two candidate countries and on the mobility of capital with seven candidate countries. the environmental chapter has been closed with no less than four candidate countries. we can therefore speak of real breakthroughs in the negotiations. the whole single market area has fallen into place. the four freedoms, fundamental to the union, can now be implemented with a few countries. we have also laid a good foundation on key issues such as nuclear safety, food safety and land transport and closed some chapters that were actually part of the autumn according to our roadmap. we will have opened negotiations in all areas with some of the countries that started negotiations last year. this confirms the principle of differentiation. each candidate country is judged on its own merits and sets the pace of the negotiations. we had ministerial meetings with all the candidate countries on monday and tuesday. the countries were generally very pleased with the progress they had made in the negotiations. at the same time, we could see that many people were clearly concerned about the irish referendum. of course, i and many others are disappointed by the result of the referendum there, but it is all the more important that the process of ratifying the treaty of nice is moving forward, because it is the very basis of the enlargement negotiations. it is all the more important that the accession negotiations with the applicant countries continue with unabated vigour. the uncertainty that the referendum may have generated and spread in the candidate countries must be dealt with by making it even clearer that enlargement will continue. the progress we have seen in the negotiations with the candidate countries would not have been possible if these countries had not carried out major reforms and made great efforts to meet our demands. this can, of course, make the eu-friendly governments of the candidate countries particularly vulnerable to populist attacks if they feel that enlargement would come to a halt. i think we have to draw three conclusions from nice. firstly, we must send clear signals from the gothenburg meeting that enlargement must be pursued. secondly, we all have a responsibility to send a clear message that the treaty of nice will be implemented and that ratification will continue in other countries. thirdly, we must work together to make the eu more visible to the citizens. in this respect, we can also use the debate on the future to launch a broad debate on europe, and we all have a responsibility in this. we discussed the future here in parliament no later than 30 may. i would just like to add that the report to gothenburg describes all the initiatives of the member states, the candidate countries and the institutions, not least the resolution of parliament of 31 may. as regards the continuing process, we also note that many are in favour of a convention in the preparatory phase. many also feel that such a convention should be combined with other measures. this is also sweden's position, and we would like to be able to point this out in gothenburg. but the exact form of the agreement will have to be decided in laeken. (applause) i would like to thank you. in gothenburg we will also be dealing with the third 'e' of the swedish presidency: environment. we will take some important steps to align eu policy with ecological, long-term sustainable development by setting concrete targets, concrete actions and an effective follow-up process. in this respect, we will build on the commission's report which proposes, among other things, measures to combat climate change and health risks, and for the responsible management of natural resources and improved transport systems. the eu is really the only global force that can drive environmental issues and sustainable development globally. it is therefore also natural that climate issues and the kyoto protocol should be raised at the summit with the us president in gothenburg, which we will do. at the same time, we know that if we are to play a leading role globally, we must also do good work at home. this is also true of other international issues, where the union is developing its instruments and becoming more consistent in its action in order to exert influence. the security and defence policy, the esdp, is one of our most important processes. we have conflict prevention, civil crisis management and military crisis management, which together form a whole. we are now complementing the positive developments in the military field by also extending civilian crisis management with police, judicial and civil administration. we have also developed our work on the prevention of armed conflict. the gothenburg summit will receive both a progress report on the esdp and a european programme for conflict prevention. the un is our most important partner in this effort. at our working lunch with un secretary-general kofi annan in may, we identified a number of priorities for cooperation in conflict prevention and crisis management, where our emerging military and civilian capabilities will be a real asset to the un. we will strengthen cooperation in the field through joint fact-finding missions and cooperation between special representatives. the balkans, the middle east and africa are specific priorities. of course, we are also developing cooperation with nato, as we have seen, not least in the current crises in macedonia and southern serbia. in gothenburg we will also discuss important foreign policy issues, including the middle east, where the eu has played a very active role. the eu is also working to develop a common strategy for the middle east, which will be based on the principles of the european union's common foreign and security policy. we will discuss the western balkans, where developments in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, fyrom, remain worrying. we have been active, both as the presidency and together with javier solana, in holding together the coalition government, isolating the extremists, launching the reform process to improve the status and rights of minorities, and continuing the process of rapprochement with the eu. but as we all know, the situation is still critical. the situation in southern serbia is more positive. it is also an example that when the eu and nato work closely together, we can also manage conflicts. madam president, i would like to thank you. we are now approaching the end of our presidency, but we have a lot of work to do and hope to take some decisive steps at the gothenburg summit - for enlargement, for jobs and the environment and for the global role of the union. we expect active work and we know that we need the active support of parliament on all the issues we are discussing. (applause) i would like to thank you.
president of the commission. - madam president of the european parliament, madam foreign minister, ladies and gentlemen, the european council will meet tomorrow in gothenburg. there are many items on the agenda. i'm only going to focus on two of these: enlargement and sustainable development. however, another very important subject will be discussed in gothenburg, namely the outcome of the referendum on the ratification of the treaty of nice held in the republic of ireland. we had an exchange of views on this two days ago at the general affairs council and the 14 member states adopted a declaration. i should like to make a few brief remarks on this. while i do not wish to commit any undue interference in the sovereign decisions of the irish people, the result of the referendum is a source of deep sadness to me. the enlargement process must not, however, be delayed. as i will say in a moment, it is historically and politically necessary. the commission will therefore continue to do its utmost to achieve this objective. there is still a political lesson to be learned. every referendum has its story. however, although the low turnout makes the reading of the result difficult, there is no doubt that the free expression of the will of the irish people reminds us, once again, of the reality of a method of amending the treaties, the one used in nice, which our fellow citizens do not understand and no longer want. (applause) i would like to thank they do so by the supreme expression of democracy, the vote, but they also do so by the absence of a vote, which is the result of indifference and lack of clarity. it is not enough to say again and again that we must communicate more and better with the public and that the real issues are often misunderstood or misrepresented. that's not the point! we must learn the lesson from the citizens. i therefore welcome the intention expressed by minister lindh to go to gothenburg and not to propose the re-establishment of closed circles of advisers and government conferences which operate behind closed doors. this is a chapter that absolutely must end. (applause) i would like to thank the only way forward for our citizens is to be shown in laeken, without any further hesitation, by a representative structure of the states and the elected representatives, national and european: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is six months since europe was fortunately brought back into the conversation: let's go all the way! the commission is ready to make an active contribution to this structure. i now return to the two original questions: sustainable development and enlargement. i would like to illustrate the results that i hope will emerge from this summit in these two areas. first, sustainable development, which is the key to sustainable development. in gothenburg, the heads of state and government will discuss a new policy based on the commission's proposal, which represents a radical change in our thinking. it is in fact a continuation of the lisbon strategy, with the aim of creating an ambitious but realistic process towards sustainable development. this is achieved on the assumption that sustainable development is not only about the environment but aims to ensure economic growth, social cohesion and environmental protection, so that these three objectives go hand in hand. far from being in contradiction, economic, social and environmental objectives are in fact complementary. this is the core of the european model of society we want to build and hand on to future generations in europe: if we do not do this, it will be difficult to build europe. our proposal brings these objectives together in a single integrated strategy, which aims to solve the real problems of our fellow citizens in the long term. i will give you just a few examples of the results we want to achieve in gothenburg. as regards social policy, the proposed strategy incorporates all the objectives set out in the previous lisbon and stockholm european councils, namely to modernise the social security system, combat poverty and exclusion and tackle the problem of an ageing society. on climate change, we are not only aiming to implement the kyoto agreement, but also to think beyond it. it is a long-term process which cannot be decided once and for all, but the line must be clear and consistent from today. we are also very keen to see the european union's latest objectives in the field of agricultural policy, which are no longer focused on quantity but on healthy and quality food production. our aim must be to satisfy the consumer while at the same time enhancing the value of agricultural activity. as far as transport is concerned, we want to break the link between economic growth and the indiscriminate growth of road transport. enlargement makes it even more urgent to act on all these fronts and every single citizen must be involved in the effort to bring about change. the members of this house can play a key role in this respect: you are rooted in the territory and have close links with regional and local authorities, who will have the primary responsibility for implementing sustainable development policy in the territory. you are therefore in an ideal and crucial position to explain, discuss and support these initiatives. this strategy for sustainable development is indispensable if we are to achieve a balanced and just society in europe. we europeans - and i repeat this - are rightly proud of our social model, even if in recent years we have perhaps lost the thread of it, we have lost our pride in it, but we must, perhaps for this reason, modernise it so that it can work for future generations. the future of our planet depends on global sustainable development, and the best way for the european union to promote this is to put into practice what we have set out to do, so that we can be a guide and an example for everyone. they look at us from other continents, even when it doesn't seem like it. i would now like to move on to the second theme: the enlargement. i have never ceased to stress that enlargement is our historic mission: i am not saying that the commission is not in favour of this, but i think that this parliament is also in favour of it. it must be done now because the time is ripe. the single market, the introduction of the euro, the tangible results of the consolidation of public finances and progress in economic and social reforms all contribute to making this a particularly favourable time for enlargement. we must therefore use all our energies to bring this process to a speedy conclusion. the commission is pursuing the accession negotiations with seriousness and rigour, in accordance with the mandate given to it by the council. its impartial institutional role ensures that the process is not tainted by short-term political considerations. we are committed to the principles of differentiation and merit-based progress, whereby countries that started negotiations in 2000 can also re-engage those that started earlier. we are following closely the road map drawn up last year and approved in nice, and i am pleased to say that we have made great progress. i am also very grateful to the swedish presidency for the impetus and contribution it has given to these negotiations. the timetable is therefore correct and must be maintained. i have every reason to believe that we will be able to conclude the negotiations with the most prepared partners around the end of 2002, so that we can complete the ratification processes in time for the 2004 european elections. the gothenburg council must therefore take note of the progress made and formulate the guidelines needed to complete the negotiations. the most delicate chapters are still open, and there are basically four: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european environment agency. i've arranged them in order of increasing difficulty. these are undoubtedly complex areas, but it is now clear that in some cases solutions can be facilitated by the adoption of transitional periods. the commission is therefore ready to propose the necessary technical solutions and the necessary political compromises. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. today, flexibility and common sense appear to be the most important, the most valuable virtues, both on the part of the member states and on the part of the candidate countries. the need for public support is clear. the enlargement will increase the union's population by 30%. we will also have a union which is in many respects more diverse, with long borders in common with large countries such as russia and ukraine. many of our fellow citizens are concerned about the consequences of this new territorial arrangement for their daily lives in terms of employment, the environment, immigration and public order. the members of this house have the fundamental task of reassuring the citizens by means of an objective and serene explanation of the problems but also of the great advantages which they derive from the project of european unification. enlargement will be the impetus of our economy and the labour market for the next generation. it will also be the only instrument to control pathological phenomena which ignore national frontiers, such as organised crime, drug trafficking, arms and human trafficking. together we can do more and better. a larger europe will be a stronger and more respected player on the world stage. ladies and gentlemen, enlargement is not a technical process. we must never allow attention to detail to blind us to the big picture. the vision of europe that our children and grandchildren will inherit is a common future in a union that will stretch from the atlantic ocean to the black sea, from the arctic circle to the mediterranean. but that's not all: i would like us to think in terms of a community of peaceful nations on a continental scale, including the enlarged european union and all its new neighbours, united by increasingly common values and objectives. this is not a dream: it is a process which we have already begun, with the great contribution of the swedish presidency. in moscow last month, the top representatives of the russian federation and the european union agreed to begin work on the creation of a common european economic area and began to examine the practical possibility of adopting the euro in future for their commercial and financial transactions. we intend at the same time to pursue a strategy of equal interest in relation to ukraine. on this basis, the enlarged european union and its neighbours will be able to find common solutions to common problems in areas such as transport, energy and the environment, research and development, immigration and the fight against organised crime. only an enlarged community, such as the one we are building, can enjoy lasting peace, prosperity and stability. ladies and gentlemen, enlargement and sustainability are therefore the two keys to europe's future. i am sure you share my view and i am equally sure that göteborg will enable us to make great strides forward from vision to reality. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the irish referendum will make the gothenburg summit even more important than we had assumed. we, the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats, say that göteborg, precisely because there are now uncertainties, because there are irritations, because there are concerns in the countries of central europe about their membership of the european union, must be a signal that the countries in the centre of europe are welcome in the european union and that the enlargement of the european union is now the priority of priorities. we must make this clear to the people in the middle of our continent. (applause from the centre) our group has long been in favour of the first new peoples being able to take part in the next european elections in 2004. this signal must be given. we also have to be flexible. we are now debating the structural funds. some want to keep everything they've had. others want to abolish the structural funds altogether. we, the group of european christian democrats, say that those in europe who are most in need deserve solidarity. that is why we need the structural funds in the future, and they must be concentrated on the countries which are the worst off in our future european union. solidarity cannot be a slogan, it must be demonstrated in concrete action. i had a very interesting conversation yesterday, as many of my colleagues in the group, with bishop alfons nossol of opole, formerly silesia, now poland. there's a minority of 300,000 people living there. since the end of communism in poland, it is possible for this minority to hold its own services in its own language alongside polish. these people in poland, as well as the hungarians in slovakia and romania, are looking at this europe now and expect us not to close the doors of our community of values of the european union, but to say: you are welcome if you have created the conditions for being accepted into our community of values of the european union. (applause from the centre) let us be flexible also in the question of freedom of movement, and let us not create schematic solutions which are offensive to the countries of central europe. we need solutions which are of course in the interests of the european union as well as in the interests of the applicant countries. i recommend that we try to ensure the necessary flexibility. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is now up to the irish government to show the way forward. i would like to say to the larger countries of the european union, which have made some mistakes in the past, thinking they could show the way to the smaller ones: hold back and let ireland give an answer first! then we'll see how we go on this path. (applause from the centre) madam president, you have said - and i am very pleased to hear it - that the swedish presidency is now in favour of the convention. we've come a long way together. but also fight for it, especially if you don't get the support. the final decisions will be taken under the belgian presidency. if you are in favour of openness and transparency and there are two or three governments who are not in favour, name those governments in public so that they have to explain why they are not in favour! (applause from the centre) the american president george bush will be in gothenburg. our group is a group which values partnership and friendship with america. we welcome the american president and welcome him to europe. but having many common interests does not mean that we do not disagree on some things. i would encourage you, madam president-in-office, and of course the president of the commission, to express in a proper but firm manner that we europeans want the kyoto protocol and the reduction of emissions to be a success. we encourage you to make that position clear. (disturbance, intercepted call) but i say, "there's a fellow here who's famous for always calling in; i am happy to take this up, because we also expect solidarity among europeans, and i am proud that it is our group, the governments that are with us, that will be expressing european solidarity in gothenburg tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. (applause from the centre) if it were otherwise, we would raise our voices! but i would like to add one more sentence, if i may, madam president. the american president is right on one point when it comes to reducing emissions. we cannot exclude nuclear energy from a sensible energy mix if it is safe. that's why he's right on this point. we are against defaming nuclear energy, the peaceful use of nuclear energy in general, for ideological reasons, as large sections of the socialists and others, including those in this house, do. in conclusion, let me say that the developments in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia are what concern us most at the moment. i would like to encourage you, madam president, to continue your efforts, as you have done so far, together with mr solana and mr patten, to bring about a peaceful development there. because if we fail there and the cancellation of today's visit by the president of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, is a wake-up call! i would encourage you to continue your efforts for peace; the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the people of europe are not excluded from the european union. i would like to encourage you to do so. (applause from the centre)
, chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. the commission is not i would also like to thank the swedish presidency and in particular you, madam president, for your cooperation. the irish vote shows that the people want europe, but a europe they understand, which is transparent, capable of action and democratic. but what is the real situation? we have a treaty which no one approves of, but which they say must be ratified because otherwise enlargement will be in danger. but what do we do when the treaty has been ratified by 14 national parliaments, and therefore cannot be changed by a single comma, and it is rejected by ireland for the second time in autumn 2002? isn't that a game of vabanques? or do we not have to prepare other options, such as that the formal conditions for enlargement, such as seats and votes, and these issues can also be negotiated for the enlargement treaties themselves, as was the case with previous enlargements? i think we must at least prepare such an option so that there is no delay in enlargement and we do not give the wrong message and have no uncertainty about the candidate countries until november 2002. we must ensure that the post-nice process is accelerated through public debate and the convention and that it is completed by the end of 2003, as stated in the méndez de vigo/seguro report. i would also recommend that the governments of the member states look at this report, because it contains a number of other points which will make it possible to deal with this crisis. it is not using tricks, protocols, opt-outs or anything else, but a treaty that sends a clear message to the citizens that they can play a part in this europe. and if schröder and fischer and jospins and blair have been glowing with beautiful, visionary speeches in recent months, i would like them to put a little of that fantasy of their speeches into practical politics now, and to ensure that this social democratic europe does not go down in history as a europe incapable of solving the problems of the present and the future. (applause from the centre)
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! i shall concentrate on the foreign and security policy aspects which the european parliament would like to recommend to the european council in gothenburg. first of all, i would like to thank the swedish presidency for the initiatives it has taken in the field of conflict prevention and civilian crisis management. this is a good thing and important for the european union. i would like to encourage you, madam president-in-office, to bring this project you have started in gothenburg to a successful conclusion with a concrete, strong programme that can be implemented immediately. one of the most difficult tasks, not only for the presidency of the council but for the entire european council in gothenburg, will be to make clear to the american president our concerns and our fears in connection with the new policy of the united states of america which he has adopted. we are deeply concerned not only about the missile defence system project, the rejection of the kyoto protocol and the attitude of the united states towards the international criminal court, but above all about the fact that the united states is turning away from traditional cooperation with the european union, which is a worrying sign for all those who consider this cooperation to be a top priority for solving the enormous problems facing the world. madam president, i would like to end with the very sad and very dramatic situation that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia presents us. we should now be receiving the president of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, mr trajkovski, in less than an hour. he's not coming. i suspect because of the difficult situation in his country. and we are partly to blame, madam president, for this situation in this country. we share some of the blame for the kla terrorism which we have not dismantled despite security council resolution 1244, which is attacking this country today and putting the very existence of the country in question. the european union must do everything possible, madam president of the council, to put an end to this terrorism and to provide aid to this country.
madam president, we have discussed this for a long time and negotiated it with mr oostlander himself. we do not approve of this oral request. unfortunately, it is the kla and not the so-called kla, and they are armed groups and not coalition groups. that is why we are against the oral proposal.
i have to say, madam president, it says "macedonian government". this is an oral amendment and we must ask whether there are any objections to it.
i have to say, madam president, this is a highly political matter and i therefore ask you to have it examined by the committee responsible. when someone uses language in this way, it is a political act. then what we introduced earlier was also a linguistic correction! (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, it is paragraph 21 of the report by mr brok. we voted and, in my view, we rejected this paragraph. but you announced that the paragraph was accepted. can you please check again how it really happened?
madam president, i am not talking about the amendment, but about the vote on paragraph 21.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. regulated working hours also improve occupational safety! there is hardly any sector in which this is as true as the transport sector. i would like to remind you again of the purpose of this directive. article 1: the purpose of this directive is to improve the safety and health protection of drivers, to improve road safety and to improve the level playing field. i think that the common position does not do justice to this, and indeed contains some contradictions. the rapporteur has made proposals which are also a useful contribution to transport policy and environmental policy. i would like to mention three points on which we disagree: the most important point - it has already been said - is the involvement of the selfemployed; it is not true, mr bushill-matthews, that the selfemployed and the freight forwarders are all against stephen hughes' proposal. a number of companies have realised that if selfemployed people are not included, competition is ruinous. i want to remind you of the consequences. if we do not include at least one third of the 3.5 million truck drivers who are self-employed, we will have thousands of drivers overnight in what is called pseudo-independence, in an unwanted self-employment. it can't be true that they accept this. the second point on which we disagree is night work. we should also remember that serious accidents on europe's roads are not the result of technical defects in lorries but are primarily the result of over-fatigue on the part of the drivers. that is why we feel that eight hours is sufficient for this activity. the third point is the standby time, or the time until which the truck drivers must be available. we believe that flexible working hours must be in the mutual interest of employers, shippers and workers. that's why we think giving a day's notice is a sensible solution. it is not a question of the commission's ability to act. it is simply not possible that the present way, the practice now being practised of moving the storage to the road, should continue at the expense of the truck drivers' standby services. we need a sensible new workable solution, and i think that solution has been outlined by stephen hughes in his report.
the commission has already done so. let me start with the german early romantic novalis. he, perhaps the first visionary of a free and peaceful europe as we imagine it today, coined the phrase some 200 years ago in his much-quoted essay "christianity or europe": "everything is good, just not always, just not everywhere, just not for everyone". and how right he should be. we are faced with his findings almost daily in european decision-making processes. the directive under discussion today on the regulation of working time for road drivers, supplemented by the directive on selfemployed drivers, is a particularly typical example. from the point of view of small and mediumsized enterprises, especially selfemployed drivers, this directive, with its limits on average, precisely defined maximum working hours, minimum breaks and rest periods, and the provisions on night work, constitutes an inadmissible and unnecessary interference by politicians in the organization of their working hours, for which they are responsible. in their view, it is an urgent, dirigist obstacle which is contrary to the principles of the market economy and should therefore be rejected. the situation is different from the point of view of social and competition policy-makers and road safety experts. in view of the increasing number of alarming reports such as 'due to the driver's exhaustion, a truck drove unbraked onto a car which had been parked correctly due to technical problems', but also in view of the need to avoid false autonomy and the consequent unfair competition, the directive is long overdue. in addition, the increase in the protection of the health and safety of road transport workers at work should not be overlooked. i am therefore a firm believer in the social market economy: people first, then the economy. i therefore recommend that, in the interests of the safety of all, including pedestrians, we agree to the tightening of the common position.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. mr president, as the committee on budgets' permanent rapporteur for the agencies, i can say that the committee on budgets is satisfied with the document presented. the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism has adopted the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets to establish the european maritime safety agency. i would like to begin by outlining the framework within which the following amendments are being put. the structure of the agencies does not make it easy for us to find a common line in their financing. the principles of the european parliament nevertheless oblige us to ensure that public authorities are efficient, transparent and cost-effective. we are particularly concerned about the newly created agencies, and we want to ensure that the budgetary management of the agencies is clearly defined from the outset. the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture and rural development the first amendment aims to introduce a new recital, which deals in particular with transparency and control. basic budgetary procedural rules should apply to the authority, since it implements eu policies, employs staff and depends in whole or in part on budgetary subsidies. amendment no 2 makes it clear that we want the member state which will host the agency to make a financial contribution. the third amendment concerns the rules for adopting the budget of the authority. parliament's control is exercised by the committee on budgets and the financing committee. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the agencies are not given too much autonomy, and i can assure you, as the permanent rapporteur for the agencies, that too much autonomy will lead to agencies becoming self-sufficient and going far beyond their objective, far beyond their task. (applause from the centre)
mr president, as i said last time, in court and at sea you are in god's hands, but at sea we can help a little, with the erika i and erika ii packages, to give a little more security. i would like to thank the rapporteurs very much. i think it makes sense that we are making good progress on the monitoring and control system, on an independent agency and on an accident compensation fund. in this context - and this is also the esclopé report - the commission has proposed the creation of an oil accident fund for oil tanker accidents. now, our experience over the last few years is that we don't just have tanker accidents, but we have dangerous substances, we have harmful substances and we often have the so-called bunker oil on other ships that pollute the environment. so it makes sense to take a more comprehensive approach here. i would have liked to have heard the commission comment, as an exception, on what a great car advertisement says in our country, namely 'no way, no way!' so, commissioner, when you make your point, please do not say 'i cannot go', but 'how can i comply with parliament's wishes?' and then make it legally and technically possible. i think it is sensible that the committee should also spread the risk more widely, by not only the oil companies but also the ship owners and the beneficiaries sharing the risk on an equal footing, by sharing the responsibility equally and then by including regional representatives of the regions concerned in such a committee so that their interests can be represented. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. so we should - i said it last time - now move forward a little bit, with a little bit of speed, because the people, the erika - oh my god, it's been two years since the accident happened, and legally we have not finished anything yet, but it's all still in the air. that is why i would ask my colleagues and the commission to take a step back. i think it makes sense that we also get an agency for maritime safety as a first start. i am very much aware that piraeus is a good place for this, but i would just like to say that i think that lübeck, in my own region, would be an excellent location for such an agency. (call: or greifswald, rostock!) the answer is yes.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank the three rapporteurs once again on behalf of my group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we have put together a very good package of opinions on erika ii in parliament, and we should stick to it. i also think that if i may comment on a few points, first of all on the comments made by the last speaker and also on the speech made by my colleague earlier on the subject of the compensation fund, we will not delay anything! we are simply saying that it is not acceptable for member states to always claim to be in favour of compensation schemes, but then ratify very substantial compensation schemes. we are now introducing the esclopé report to show that we want to have regulations not only on oil pollution but also on pollution by dangerous substances and by harmful substances. the council is entirely free to demonstrate to us at second reading that it is prepared to proceed with ratification, that it is prepared to find another way. but it is not appropriate to say: you are now stopping our compensation scheme, and in fact they do not want to defend the damage caused by dangerous substances and by harmful substances. we must therefore press for a general regulation. because there's a lot of pollution in the oceans, not just from oil, but from chemicals and other substances. if the council has a better way, we are willing to go with it. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the matter. we are also open to international arrangements. if the imo wants to solve the problem globally within the next six months, and it does, we will gladly withdraw this commission proposal. but i can only say that, as has always been the case, we had to put pressure on our own legislation before a global regulation was put in place, and that is why we must continue here. the last comment on the mastorakis report: one cannot say that the agency should be independent and then say that we as parliament must be able to speak in the administrative council. that's a little schizophrenic too. we want an independent authority, but in a democracy every executive, even a subordinate authority, must be accountable to parliament. the only reason for this is that the agency is not totally independent of the commission: we as parliament will attack the commissioner if the agency makes mistakes. we are not prepared to settle for the head of the agency director. if anything goes wrong at the agency, we will, charming lady vice president, demand your head! that is parliamentarism, and that is why the agency must be independent, but under the responsibility of the commission, and we must exercise the right of control, not some experts who are then appointed to the board of directors. commissioner, we are partners and we get along well!
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0203/2001) by mr collins, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on occurrence reports in civil aviation.
- i'm interrupting the debate here. we shall resume the discussion of this item at 9 p.m.
- the next item is the debate on the commission's report (b5-0171/2001). part one
- question no 33 by mr anders wijkman (h-0473/01) subject: commission's intentions and actions with regard to the global fund to fight aids, malaria and tuberculosis although it is welcome that the international community is paying greater attention to the tragic and enormous consequences of the epidemic of hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis, including the commission's action programme: accelerating the fight against hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis in the context of poverty reduction (com (2001) 0096), it is clear that there is an urgent need for efforts going far beyond this initiative, and indeed beyond price reductions by the pharmaceutical industry, to address pressing prevention and treatment needs. the secretary-general of the united nations recently proposed the creation of a global fund to fight hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis and urged donors to make firm commitments before the special session of the united nations general assembly on hiv/aids in june. the amount needed is estimated at $7-10 billion a year. president bush recently announced that the united states was making a $200 million exit commitment. in the light of the commission's action programme, what are its intentions with regard to the global fund? is it prepared to lead by example and make a significant contribution to this fund?
- question no 34 by mr niall andrews is therefore admissible (h-0492/01) since the author is not present. question no 35 by mr jean-louis bernié (h-0461/01) subject: plant protein crops in the union the ban on animal meal could have been an opportunity to develop plant protein crops in the union, but the commission decided, without any consultation, to exclude any protein plan, on the pretext that it was too expensive. however, encouraging the cultivation of protein crops would help to rebalance european production by avoiding the practice of monoculture of cereals which requires the increased use of fungicides. moreover, this decision will certainly lead to ever more massive imports of gm soybeans from the united states. what are the commission's reasons for concluding that the financial cost of a protein plan outweighs the need to combat land depletion, severe food dependence and the development of gmos in europe?
question no 36 by mrs maría izquierdo rojo (h-0470/01) subject: consequences of the non-existence of a fisheries agreement with morocco what funds will be used to finance the new restructuring plan?
- question no 37 by mr guido podestà (h-0445/01): what is the commission's position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work? the regional council of istria adopted the regional statute on 9 april 2001, which provides for the equal use of the italian and croatian languages in all regional institutions and administrative procedures. unfortunately, these provisions were suspended on 23 april 2001 by the croatian ministry of justice under the pretext of checking their constitutionality, although it was unanimously found that these provisions were in accordance with the spirit and the letter of the croatian constitution (fundamental charter). this decision has caused great surprise and raised serious concerns among the italian-speaking population, as italy is a friendly country and a founding member of the eu, guaranteeing perfect bilingualism (italian/croatian) in its neighbouring territory. how does the commission intend to reconcile the negotiations on the eu's proposed association and stabilisation agreement with croatia, with a view to closer relations with the eu, and this decision by the croatian government, which is clearly contrary to the principles on which the eu is founded and which constitutes a flagrant violation of the rights of cultural minorities?
- mr maccormick, my philosophy of question time is that members first have the opportunity to ask supplementary questions. the commission has answered the questions today with astonishing precision. i have been a member of parliament for 22 years and i have never seen anything like this. there must be a reason for this, which i'll try to find out tonight. i am sorry that not all the questions have been dealt with, but that is the way it is. i can't change that now.
- i hope so ! i take your suggestion very seriously, mr president, and i shall be as firm next time as i am usually. the time allotted to the commission for question time has now expired and questions 38 to 77 will be answered in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.05 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the commission has already taken a number of measures. the commission is not if we had had this debate on the supply of oil to the european union six months ago, the attention would probably have been much greater and there would have been a lot of journalists reporting on it the other day. i doubt that this will be the case today, because the tide has turned. surprisingly, back then, when oil prices were not so dramatic, but were still going up, the streets were full of protesters, and if there had been elections in one country or another, then the government would probably have had considerable difficulty getting re-elected, although it can do nothing about it, but psychology played a big role. people were confused, and many were in the street and angry. what am i trying to say? what i'm saying is that oil policy can have an extraordinary impact on public opinion in our countries and that we need to be careful when we talk about oil. you get used to the high prices, i guess. now the price of oil is $30 a barrel, and there is no riot - back then even that would have been a risk. i am saying that this is not an insignificant issue and that we should therefore make an effort to help stabilise prices, knowing that prices will naturally go up rather than down in the next few years, due to the shortage of oil and for environmental reasons, but abrupt changes are risky. the commission published a communication at the time, and i would like to congratulate it on that. i think it is extremely helpful and cleverly done, and i think the most important message - and i want to convey it in my report - is that we need an orderly relationship with opec. we need a dialogue with opec, and above all the european union must speak with one voice in this dialogue. not with 15, but with one vote. i would like to compliment you, commissioner, but i would have said it otherwise: it must be the commissioner who speaks for the european union! i can imagine that the corridor, which opec is also aiming for, will be maintained at between 22 and 28 dollars a barrel. i do not think that $30 is a disaster either, although, because of inflation alone, $25 is of course more comfortable for us than $30. what are the points of contention, even in this parliament? the first is the question of tax harmonization, the harmonization of mineral oil taxes. i would like to advocate vigorously for such harmonization, although i know that there are a number of colleagues who disagree, who believe that tax policy must be made in competition. but in the interests of truck drivers and hauliers, who are in competition with each other, i think that harmonization of the conditions of competition is absolutely necessary and also fair. the second thing that divides us and where we have difficulties is the use of reserves, of stocks. now i also know that these reserves, these storage facilities that we've built up for these 90 days, compared to the oil that's underground, are of course incomparably smaller, and that releasing these reserves also has little impact on the price of energy. i'm not so naive as to overlook that. still, i think it might make psychological sense to open it in a crisis, but i admit, that's debatable. the third thing we should talk about - and i am very cautious about this - is the use of fiscal instruments in the event of a crisis. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer. that means we are dealing with a real situation here, one we cannot avoid. what makes me think is that opec is siding with the united states on climate policy. that means we are dealing with an ally of the united states that could become dangerous in climate policy. i would be very much in favour of having a climate policy dialogue with opec. i think there's a compromise to be found here. (applause from the centre)
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr linkohr for his excellent report, which is in line with the communication on oil supplies adopted by the commission in october 2000, which in turn followed up on a first note which had been provided to the council earlier in september. i would also like to point out that the commission has in the meantime adopted the green paper on the security of energy supply which is so closely linked to this document and, of course, to mr linkohr's report. i would like to say that today, although we are not in such a tense situation as we were in last autumn, the reality is that brent prices are close to $30 a barrel and that, following the conclusions of the opec meeting last week, the price situation remains a matter of concern. the cause of the volatility is largely determinable and is mainly due at the moment to the low level of reserves which is a historically low level since the winter of 1999-2000, but undoubtedly also to something complementary such as the lack of transparency in the oil markets. in this sense, as mr linkohr very well points out and puts it as the number one point in the motion for a resolution he is submitting to parliament, dialogue with the producing countries, whether members of opec or not, is a necessary step in solving the problem of the instability of oil prices. in this sense, we must be able to make a common commitment to carry out market analysis with these countries and to establish a permanent dialogue. as mr purvis said, it is not just a matter of talking when there is a shortage of oil and prices are very high, but also when prices are low. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this context, the key issue is that europe can speak with one voice and that we do not find ourselves, as sometimes happens, unfortunately, in the energy field, with the positions of some country that goes beyond what was agreed the day before - and this happened to us quite recently. in this context, facilitating the development of production within the european union, as has been pointed out here and advocated in your motion for a resolution, but also in countries outside opec and outside the european union, would be to the benefit of the union itself. this is the context in which issues such as eu-russia cooperation in the energy field are framed, through the dialogue launched by president prodi at the eu-russia summit in paris on 30 october. but we can say, in any case, that our energy policy options must concentrate on controlling demand, both for oil and for the other sources of energy. on the one hand, our energy resources are limited; on the other hand, we cannot forget our commitments in the field of the environment - and i am referring in particular to our kyoto commitments - where we undoubtedly have a different position from that of the united states. but, returning to our communication, apart from the dialogue to which we referred at the outset, it insists on increasing the coherence of national policies between the various countries of the union. we must therefore consolidate the common approaches, both in terms of strategic reserves and taxation. it is a question of strengthening the strategic oil reserves by pooling them and, secondly, as regards taxation, as mr linkohr's report points out, the temptation to cushion the rise in oil prices by reducing taxation on petroleum products must be discouraged. this would be contrary to our environmental objectives, in particular those under the kyoto protocol, and would involve transferring tax resources to the producing countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to refer to the reduction of the impact of oil on the european economy and, consequently, to the control of demand and remind you, first of all, that although paragraph 23 of your motion for a resolution says that we are going to present a savings plan in gothenburg, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to present it. what we are proposing, in the context of the green paper currently being discussed in parliament, is a series of energy-saving measures. and what we will do in gothenburg is to present some of the proposals in an articulated form. for example, one on the improvement of the energy performance of buildings, a sector in which, as some of the speakers have pointed out, there is great potential for savings. finally, given the importance of transport in oil demand, the relative importance of transport modes must be rebalanced, and this will be one of the main points, if not the main point, of the white paper which i hope the commission will adopt in the coming weeks. finally, the commission also intends to increase support for the new generation of vehicles and alternative fuels and will shortly be presenting a communication on alternative fuels - we have already discussed this - and a directive in which we will put forward a proposal on the minimum rate of use of biofuels and a proposal on tax relief measures to encourage the use of biofuels. ladies and gentlemen, mr president, the oil crisis has drawn public attention to the energy problem. however, this crisis is simultaneously posed by other major challenges. i'm thinking about issues like our increased dependence on the outside world or the problem of global warming. all this has led us to launch a debate, a global, systematic and comprehensive reflection through the proposals we put forward in our green paper. i understand that with this debate and with the motion for a resolution on mr linkohr's report we are laying the foundations for what the conclusions of the future green paper should be and in that regard i would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again on the excellent work he has done and to thank all the contributions from his colleagues.
- doc. a5-0210/2001 by mr busk, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 91/630/eec laying down minimum standards for the protection of pigs (com (2001) 20 - c5-0039/2001 - 2001/0021 (cns)) this is the right subject for a midnight debate.
mr president, after intensive negotiations and very good work by mr busk, it is now possible to discuss his report in parliament. on behalf of my group i would like to thank him and mr maat for their work. i think that the compromise proposals which have been negotiated represent another step forward in the improvement of pig farming. it's just a compromise, and it's not going to change. optimal demands, often emotionally imposed, are taken for granted, but cannot be implemented in this way. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. it is important that the transition periods be flexible. adaptation to new systems of animal husbandry takes time and, above all, is not cheap. the conditions of competition are particularly harsh in pig production. i would like to make two brief comments: firstly, on the extension of the report's allocation of places to fattening pigs and, secondly, on castration. the commission proposal does not include both of these areas, but i think that the european parliament should set higher standards in animal welfare. the 1997 report of the scientific veterinary committee on the welfare of pigs was the starting point, especially for the space needed for fattening pigs. a general ban on castration of pigs, as some have called for, would not, in my view, be acceptable to consumers in germany. the extent to which the double vaccination of male animals will replace surgical castration remains to be seen. but i think it would be the more practical way. as far as the timetable is concerned, i think we have found a compromise that is still viable. the factories have time to adjust their production over a longer period. i would ask the house to vote in favour of the report.
mr president, commissioner byrne, when the proposal came from the commission, we were a little hesitant in the committee about whether we should deal with it at all, because, with all due respect, it was a very thin proposal. the quality of the products we received was not high and they were not sufficient, so we thought we should send them back to the sender and say: make a reasonable proposal for the protection of pigs! but i must say, mr. busk, congratulations on your work. i also recall mr maat and mr kindermann, who then worked on the compromise proposals. we now have a proper proposal, but i say that parliament has once again done a good job. it is also good that we are adopting this now, because if we had not done so, but had rejected the proposal, the animal welfare groups would have once again accused the farmers of wanting to build a wall here, of wanting to put commercial interests first. we have not intended to do that, but we want to promote animal welfare, which is of course linked to the commercial interests of farmers. as mr sturdy has already said, it is of course important that the standards we set for ourselves are also set for products coming into the european union. in this sense we must strive for a sensible external protection which qualifiedly incorporates what we describe here as the european way of farming and which we have once again implemented in this detail.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission proposes minimum standards for the protection of pigs to improve animal welfare. i think it is a pity that instead of animal welfare directives there are no regulations. i am very convinced of this, because i am a great supporter of regulations, because directives, when implemented, tend to create new distortions of competition, especially in my country. i do not want to go into the details of the individual compromise amendments, because some of what we put on paper there is, in my view, a matter of great self-evidence. i would like to give you an example: the emphasis is on qualified training. without qualified training, no young farmer in germany has for a long time dared to try to survive in this fierce competition. i am very sorry that the commissioner does not have much time to listen, but i would like to mention again the polemical interests of consumer organizations, which are currently being brought up in every debate, where it is said again and again that consumers are demanding better protection of animals. i was just informed yesterday of the press release by commissioner fischler, who said in an interview with a major german newspaper that we are seeing the reverse of consumer behaviour after bse. commissioner fischler said that people were now turning to cheap deals again after bse. that's what my years of experience actually confirm. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we're almost experts at that. i think there are others who can judge that much better. mr president, i think you know very well in bavaria about pig production. you know what it means when we talk about tail-picking, pinching, grinding teeth and all these important things. i would like to conclude by saying that we must find a balance between animal welfare, health and environmental aspects. we also need acceptable transitional periods for the whole issue.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the directive we are dealing with is concerned with animal welfare. i welcome a review of animal welfare at the european level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare directives are not replaced by regulations which are directly applicable in the member states. animal welfare must be part of our ethical code. but this understanding must not stop at the eu's borders. the same demands must be made in the forthcoming wto negotiations, and this, commissioner, is a thread running through the debate this evening. it is important to be aware that high animal welfare standards in the eu lead to higher production costs. our pig farmers will then have to compete with imports from third countries which do not meet this standard of animal welfare and can therefore offer significantly lower prices. this is the reality. new animal welfare requirements also mean changes in farming systems. halting systems which have only recently been built in accordance with the relevant legal requirements should be given a transitional period for conversion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that a binding, crossborder ban on the castration of pigs would allow pig farmers and the market to adjust to the changes that would result. but we now ask the commission to amend the annex to the directive by 2002 so that castration of male pigs is only carried out by persons who are technically able and qualified to do so. improperly performed castration results in persistent pain. specific details in the housing must be considered, such as box sizes or the position of load-bearing saws. in addition, the natural behaviour of the pigs must be taken into account, so that the pigs can deal with feed and, in addition, any materials at any time. one thing is certain: in all our efforts to improve the conditions of farming, it is not least the consumers who, through their purchasing behaviour, will confirm the success.
commission. – i would like, first, to thank parliament for the priority given to this issue. only two days ago the commission, together with the council presidency, had the opportunity to set out its views and commitments in relation to animal welfare. i very much welcomed the broad support expressed by parliament. i would also like to thank mr busk, the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for the support given to this specific issue of the welfare of pigs. the intensification of pig farming in europe over the past ten years has led to practices which cause unnecessary suffering and which are increasingly proving to be counterproductive. i took the advice of the scientific committee on animal health and animal welfare very seriously in preparing the commission proposal to bring current legislation in line with the scientific evidence. the commission proposal prohibits the confinement of sows during most of their pregnancy to individual stalls which severely restrict their freedom of movement. the use of tethers for sows and gilts will be definitively forbidden. the proposal also sets out rules to improve the living environment of pigs and piglets in general, setting requirements for living spaces, floor surfaces and proper feeding systems. i can accept amendment no 13 because it improves the commission proposal. aware of the importance of the effects of stockmanship on the welfare of pigs, the commission proposal introduced new requirements for the persons attending to the animals. amendments nos 28 and 30 build on this, calling for certified training for the personnel attending to the pigs, and therefore can be accepted. even if i share the aim of amendments nos 1 and 26, they are not acceptable because they request initiatives that the commission is already taking. i would make specific reference to the fact that the commission has proposals in place under a commission directive, under the comitology procedure, in relation to tail docking, teeth clipping, castration, light requirements and teeth grinding. all of that will be dealt with under the issue of comitology. i should like to take the opportunity to draw mr graefe zu baringdorf's attention to that particular fact, as i know he likes to take an overall view of the legislation that comes before the house. a second proposal for a commission directive amending the technical annexes to directive 91/630 has been discussed by the standing veterinary committee during the past months. these technical amendments regulate noise levels and light access for the animals to food and materials for rooting, timing of weaning of piglets and floor surfaces; they also prohibit the worst type of routine mutilations. amendments nos 8, 27 and 33 cannot be accepted because they reduce the possibility for the commission to take urgent action to adopt technical improvements for the welfare of the animals. i cannot accept amendment no 38 because the definition of manipulable materials is already foreseen in the annex and will be discussed further in the standing veterinary committee. amendments nos 2, 10 and 31 add new aspects to the commission proposal and introduce further initiatives. these are welcome, as is amendment no 5, that sets a date for the commission report on further questions related to the welfare of pigs. further scientific elements are also necessary to establish new rules for the stocking densities applicable to pigs for fattening. it is for this reason that amendment no 11 cannot be accepted. the commission is already committed to further analyse the issue from the scientific and economic point of view and to take the necessary steps. we are all aware that animal welfare carries a price and the measures outlined in this proposal are no exception. in an industry as competitive as the pig-meat industry, where margins are extremely tight, even small price differentials can have important competitive implications. the commission is not blind to these implications. the proposal is based on extensive consultations with experts from inside and outside the commission that led the commission to the conclusion that the additional costs are a price worth paying. amendments nos 36 and 37 are not acceptable because the delay proposed for the application of the new requirements to all holdings is too strict and would significantly raise the costs of conversion. data available to the commission show that the costs would be increased from eur 0.006 per kilo for a pig carcass to eur 0.02 if the conversion is carried out with a delay shorter than ten months. that is 3.3 times the cost. amendment no 35 is unacceptable for legal reasons and because we have assessed the costs. amendments nos 3, 4, 31 and 34 suggest that eu initiatives be taken on animal welfare only after having considered the global dimension of the agricultural trade. these amendments cannot be accepted. i should recall that the commission is already considering the global dimension of the trade in animals and animal products, including in relation to the world trade organisation that a number of you mentioned. there is a common misconception that putting forward animal welfare issues in this context is a protectionist agenda. the commission considers that we have a duty and a responsibility to press for recognition of these standards, both on purely ethical grounds in recognition of the need for the humane treatment of animals, and in recognition of the higher costs which these standards entail for producers and consumers in the eu. these are legitimate issues, which deserve to be discussed on the international stage. it is essential to share our knowledge of animal welfare with countries outside the european union and to create a harmonised approach towards this issue. i am grateful for the constructive approach given to this dossier by the european parliament. in summary, the commission can accept amendments nos 2, 5, 10, 25, 28 and 30 in full, and amendments nos 13 and 31 in part.
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0209/2001) by mr brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the proposal for a council decision on the allocation of new exceptional financial assistance to kosovo (com (2001) 81 - c5-0138/2001 - 2001/0045 (cns)).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm glad i got to listen to the last debate. as you may know, mr president, i have always been interested in institutional matters, and i was surprised to find that the shortening of pig tails is a case of comitology. i have become much wiser in this respect today and i would like to thank you very much for that. (cheers and applause) but let me come to my own subject, count of baringdorf. the european parliament is ready to make the special aid for kosovo available as soon as possible. that is why we have accepted the urgency request this week. we want to contribute as quickly as possible and not put any obstacles in the way of peace in that region. but, commissioner, please take our request seriously, that this very cooperative procedure can only be carried out in the long term if we are given the necessary information to enable us to fulfil our parliamentary control tasks. it is also necessary to ensure coherence with other programmes, such as cards, in order to ensure a uniform approach, particularly in cooperation with unmik. because we have to see that one of the big problems in this region is actually that there are many groups that are trying to provide help with high commitment, but there is a lack of coordination. this is an old problem which parliament is denouncing, and the commission itself is denouncing it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because if we see that the progress in kosovo has not been sufficient, then this is also because kosovo has created the possibility of destabilising macedonia with all the consequences that this entails. we also believe, commissioner, that it is necessary to establish a link with the willingness of other donors to provide rapid financial assistance. we have expressly accepted a proposal in committee which does not impose any conditions on the performance of the other donors, but the link must be there so that not only the european union is at the forefront here, but the other donors also meet their commitments accordingly. the programme is about creating the conditions for lasting stability and the coexistence of people and groups of people by building a sound administration, by building a sound infrastructure, by building a sound self-sustaining economic development. for this reason, we also see this aid as an offer to the local population. but now the people must also be willing and aware that the cycle of violence must be broken. as i have explicitly said to mr lechner today, it is necessary that this political context be discussed clearly here. i would like to say, mr commissioner, that we do not want to be an obstacle to the rapid approval of the funds, but we must work together to ensure that they are used in an equitable manner, that they are not wasted and that the necessary objectives are achieved.
mr brok. - (de) mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for his report and the parliament for its rapid reaction to the commission's request and for the acceleration of the procedures which will hopefully enable us to reach a favourable agreement on this matter. i think it is important to point out that we are not talking here today about a part of the action which uses the cart programmes and therefore we are not talking about assistance projects to kosovo in the framework of the european agency for reconstruction. we are talking about macrofinancial assistance to kosovo, which is a different kind of action. we are simply talking about budget support for the un administration in the area. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. the community already made such an effort in 2000, worth eur 35 million, and the proposal we adopted in march this year concerns eur 30 million, which will be allocated to the budget of kosovo in two tranches, to start up or, rather, to maintain the operation of a jim in the area. we are, of course, responsible for the fourth pillar, and that means also paying particular attention to some of the essential changes in the economic system which are currently being implemented. we are not talking about our aid, but about elements linked to the introduction of a market economy. we have made great progress, for example, in establishing a banking and payment system, in developing the private sector and in fiscal matters, including, of course, all those relating to public spending. we are talking about aid of an exceptional nature, not dedicated to specific projects and not linked to any other type of commitment. in that sense it is radically different from cart aid and therefore needs a different legal basis, as we have suggested in our proposal. with this aid, as in the past, we are going to finance the current expenditure of the budget of kosovo, and we are talking about salaries for judges, for teachers, for doctors, for the sale or, better said, the support of public utilities and, in short, for the basic elements of operation. it is true that there is some investment expenditure linked to public enterprises, but we are basically talking about current expenditure. of course, in answer to some of mr brok's questions, a system should first be put in place which would allow kosovo to gradually bear its own financial costs. we agree with that idea and our medium-term objective is that kosovo's budget should be self-financing. last year, the funding was 50-50. we want to see it continue to progress and we hope that 75% of the total budget will be covered by own resources in 2001. another of his concerns has been what happens to the remaining donors. there is a reasonable burden-sharing between each other. for the 2001 budget there are other donors who are going to participate. the united kingdom, the netherlands, denmark, turkey, canada and the world bank, for a total of eur 43 million. of these 43 million, 31 have already been paid, which is clearly a positive factor and allows us to be reasonably calm about the problem of equitable burden sharing. of course, we are not proposing an additional budget allocation. there are resources to finance this with the part of the macroeconomic aid included in line b7-548 for the balkans. i would also like to stress that when we put this aid into effect, we insist not only on establishing a stable economic framework but also on defining policies geared towards economic stability. we are continuing with the other donors to make the necessary commitments to disburse these amounts, since the kosovo authorities have to fulfil the obligations and commitments defined. i would like to make a few comments on the amendments which have been tabled, which could help to facilitate the debate. firstly, we can accept without any difficulty some of the amendments. i am referring to amendments nos 1, 3, 6 and 9. we consider that there are other amendments which are not justified, not because we disagree on the substance, but because they are not necessary: for example, amendments nos 4 and 5, which concern the distribution of the burden. it is clearly stated in recital 9 that 'the provision of external budget support will be properly allocated among donors and is essential (...) to meet financial needs'. we also do not think amendment no 10 is necessary, in so far as it says that aid should be clearly defined in terms of the budget. the aid is purely budgetary, so there is no need to dwell on a point which we consider to be fundamental. there are a number of amendments which, in my view, misunderstand the nature of macrofinancial assistance: they are amendments nos 2, 8 and 13, which refer to the link between this type of macrofinancial assistance and the cart programme and therefore call for the same conditions as for cart projects. but we're not talking about cart, we're talking about something completely different. this is not the responsibility of my colleague chris patten, but my direct responsibility in the macrofinancial assistance, solely and exclusively for the budgetary issue. we therefore believe that these amendments should not be included, because they would cause some confusion. there are a number of amendments concerning deadlines, procedures and control, especially amendments nos 7, 11 and 14. i would like to comment on each of them. a problem which particularly concerns mr brok is that of information. of course, we're prepared to give you all the information you need. the problem is whether this information has to be developed in the context of other aids, in accordance with the progress of the reform. we are already reporting on macroeconomic aid and are prepared to do so and to include this aid with the rest of macroeconomic aid, giving all the information necessary for parliament to be able to exercise its monitoring activity effectively. amendment no 11 raises the possibility of setting up a political group in the council to carry out consultations on the implementation of this aid. i repeat: we are talking about aid of a different kind, and we think that the existing systems should be applied to macrofinancial aid and not to other types of action. and as for the problem raised in amendment no 14 - the need to comply with economic policy conditionalities and to link up with amendment no 4 and to allocate funds to this type of aid - we believe that this does not correspond to the nature of this action. what we are talking about here is aid, as i said, to a community of industrialists for their budget, with very definite objectives. it is true that these objectives must also serve to improve the economic situation and the market economy in kosovo, but there is no conditionality as in other types of aid. i would like to comment on two other amendments which i think are of interest: amendment no 12 makes two demands. first, that the aid be put into effect within a maximum period of six weeks. we can commit to getting it up and running as soon as possible. we think it is a risky idea to expect aid to be paid in the middle of august, when we all know the difficulties of the budgetary procedures. that is why we do not think this request is right. as regards the possibility of transmitting the memorandum of understanding between a jic and the commission, i should point out that this memorandum contains a number of sensitive information and therefore we think that a more efficient system is for this information to be given to the chairmen of the various committees, but in no case should the memorandum of understanding be sent. finally, the commission could accept amendment no 14 if it were worded differently. that is to say, the report should be submitted in september of the previous year, because these reports are prepared for june and we can give this information before september, but not before. the commission accepts the spirit of the request, but we believe that the wording should be improved to avoid practical problems. last comment on mr swoboda's question on the use of the euro in the kosovo area. i remind you that, as you know, this was a unilateral decision by the kosovo authorities. it is true that the german central bank is fully aware of this information or situation, and it is true that there are contacts at the moment between the kosovo banking and payments authority, the german central bank and the austrian central bank to find a solution to the problem. i can therefore inform you that these talks are already under way and i hope they will achieve a favourable outcome so that the change will pose the least possible problems. the commission is following this matter with the greatest interest, although it is a more direct responsibility of the european central bank and the national central banks than of the commission itself.
- thank you very much, mr solbes mira! the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. (the sitting was closed at 11.30 p.m.) the next item is the report (doc.
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to draw attention to the worsening situation of the transport services in the city of strasbourg. the parliament's administration stipulates in the contract that only vehicles without a taxi number may be used. this appears to be contrary to french law. however, the french ministry of the interior already stated in a letter in 1998 that strasbourg was subject to a special regime. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. if we ask them to provide an additional vehicle for the driving duty during the plenary week - we are only talking about four days - then i think we have already crossed the line of harassment. i would therefore urge you, mr president, to work with the french ministry of the interior to ensure that a permanent and workable solution is found for drivers. if the poor connections to and from strasbourg are now also accompanied by restrictions on members due to the transport service, it will cause further substantial damage to the strasbourg site.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. commissioner fischler, the report we are now discussing is about simplifying direct payments, which were introduced in 1992 and then adapted in agenda 2000, at least at the lower level. the commission's proposal is to make the payment of up to eur 1 000 a lump sum and to remove the complicated application procedure for small farms. we in the committee on agriculture and rural development support this motion. we believe that €1,000 is a little too little and we have proposed that this limit should be set at €1,500. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. of course, this varies from country to country. i think mr cunha will be dealing with that. in portugal, of course, the proportion is much higher. we also point out that we want to apply the provisions of articles 3 and 4 of regulation 1229/99 on the respect of environmental standards. what we do not agree with is that this flat-rate scheme is now intended to make savings for small farms. if a holding uses this flat-rate payment, it is to be excluded from the increases in compensation payments in the next few years provided for in agenda 2000 because of the retroactive application of the system. this means that these holdings are excluded from the increase. that is why we are proposing a 20% surcharge on these payments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the commission will not be able to accept them. you know the controversy that goes on with the premiums: large, rationalised firms in europe, wherever they are located, receive a very high payout per worker. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr fischler, you have proposed or considered providing up to eur 5 000 from the second pillar in future for farms of this size, because these farms, by their management, if they comply with certain environmental standards, contribute to the ecological and social design of rural areas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the community, and if so, what is the commissioner's position? it is possible that this would lead to this measure, which we consider reasonable, not being accepted by the small farms, because they say, no, i would like to have the full payment, even if it is only a small amount. but precisely because these are small amounts, because these are small farms that do a good job in rural areas, you should think about this again.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. let me ask the commissioner a question in conclusion. they say it's worth a hundred million. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so they're very small. as mr pesälä said, we are not asking for an increase in premiums, but we did not want to complicate matters. if the commission ensures that the commission takes account of the additional premium increases for the farms thus flat-rate, we shall be satisfied. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that's another question. but we don't think it's right to save money. if you have so quickly calculated or had calculated the 100 million, then we would be very interested to know how much would be saved if this premium increase were not made. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
- mr president, i have to go. the 20th century that we are now living in began with the widespread use of poison gas in world war i, the c-weapons. then, after world war ii, came the use of nuclear weapons, and the last quarter of the 20th century, beginning with the vietnam war, was marked in a special way by the development of biological weapons. we must be clear that our time and the possibilities of genetic engineering here, of course, bring about terrible possibilities of destruction. the capacity of man to destroy is growing, to destroy irreversibly, while on the other hand, unfortunately, the international legal order of god is not keeping pace with that, and much of what is necessary as the foundation of the international legal order, above all common values, common ethical concepts, is becoming thinner rather than stronger; so, less ethical foundations and more opportunities for destruction. this shows the enormous responsibility we have and that is why it is urgently necessary to respect international law, to strengthen it and to work towards multilateralism on these issues. the united states of course has a great responsibility, but so do we as the european union. and we must be careful not to play too often the role of one who, as in this case, rightly so, is protesting against the americans but is unable and unwilling to act as a powerful factor in the international power play. we are easily critical of us leadership, and i think that leadership is actually too great. but this is not the fault of the united states, it is the political and, above all, security weakness of the european union. i call on the gothenburg summit to finally set the right priorities and to put foreign and security policy at the centre of the summit so that the european union can finally become an equal partner of the united states. then these problems will be solved.
- mr president, one cannot speak of malaysia without thinking of the wise founder of the state in the 1950s, tunku abdul rahman, who managed to integrate and balance the peoples and religions in a wise way, by making justice for all. it is reminiscent of a figure in european history, emperor charles iv, a luxembourg like astrid lulling, who managed to integrate germans and czechs, french and italians in the heart of europe, and who, with the golden bull, created what is probably the most modern and skillfully balanced constitution of the middle ages, for the holy roman empire. this role, which charles iv played in europe, was played in malaysia in the 20th century by tunku abdul rahman, who, as i said, succeeded in bringing together hindus, muslims and buddhists, malays, tamils and chinese in a federal structure with nine different sultanate families at the head, who alternated in a very skilful rhythm in the governance of this multiethnic state. such a fragile structure is based on respect for the culture of the other. it is based on respect for the law. it is, of course, based above all on respect for the rule of law. it is therefore extremely problematic that in malaysia this delicate balance has been increasingly disturbed for some years by the centralistic personality of prime minister mahathir, who first failed to respect individual states, then, by abusing the islamic faith, increasingly failed to respect other religions and now also upsets the balance between nationalities. in this context, it is reported that the so-called internal security act is now also silencing political rivals from within the camp and pushing back the rule of law in malaysia. this is extremely worrying, because malaysia is in an important geopolitical situation. it is also an economically important country. it is an important part of asean, our partner community in the south-east asian region. we must therefore do everything possible to ensure that malaysia returns to the spirit of abdul rahman or the spirit of the luxembourgers, who play such an outstanding integrating role in our european union. i believe that the time of mr mahathir is over and that it is necessary that new democratic forces emerge in this country to renew the rule of law, so that this complex structure of many peoples and many religions does not sink into a bloodbath of excessive centralism and authoritarianism. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i listened with great interest to his historic speech, although i was also very surprised by the criticism of mr mahathir, because professor rinsche used to tell us that mr mahathir was the greatest statesman in asia. is it any different with the german christian democrats? you said, mr posselt, that charles iv was a luxembourg like mrs lulling. i have assumed that mrs lulling is a luxembourg national. if i have misunderstood, please clarify.
- mr president, i have to go. the sad world record in human rights violations is held by the taliban regime in afghanistan. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the european union is not a party to the conflict. religious minorities - first the hindus, now also non-afghans - are forced to identify themselves with a yellow piece of cloth: fatal memories of the totalitarian nazi regime in my country are awakening. since the taliban took power, the situation of the civilian population has deteriorated dramatically: women and girls are systematically oppressed, forced to wear veils, denied education, and threatened with the death penalty for adultery. even the un world food programme's bread distribution is no longer allowed to include women. they are no longer allowed to drive, and the work of international organizations is being massively impeded. men are made to wear feathers and grow beards, thieves are beaten, and their hands are cut off in public as a deterrent. the highest islamic cleric of egypt and many muslims, farid wasil, denies the taliban knowledge of the true values and ideas of the koran. he's declaring their religious opinions, the fatwas, invalid. we call on the pakistani government, commissioner, to distance itself from any support for this regime, both financial and moral. the commission has also been very active in the fight against drugs. last wednesday, german customs seized six kilos of heroin and 64 kilos of hashish in a container from afghanistan - a total value of two million euros. the sale of drugs is used to finance fanatical religious campaigns and international terrorism. it's still where bin laden is held, not extradited, but worshiped. the un sanctions, commissioner, must remain in place until afghanistan has moved from the middle ages, dictated by mullah omar, to the modern era, and thus to democracy and the rule of law.
- mr president, i have to go. the death of the nepalese royal family has shocked us all. we express our solidarity with the nepalese people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. his commitment to democracy, to the majority party system, has given much hope to this country, a country - reinhold is absolutely right - which is economically bitterly poor, but culturally so rich. the tragedy at the royal palace in kathmandu, which claimed the lives of king birendra, his wife aishwarya and other family members, leaves a vacuum. the curfews and bans on assembly have only moderated the situation; there have been a number of violent attacks. a first positive sign was the new king gyanendra, who said: i will sign the old constitution of nepal, my brother's constitution, to continue the democratic path that started in the family. the establishment of a commission of inquiry was also important: it is a first signal, precisely because of the great reservations of the population towards the new ruler, so that confidence can be gained. the commission is headed by the chief justice, who is sufficiently neutral, but the commission only becomes credible when it is attended not only by government representatives but also by representatives of the opposition and, of course, by international observers. so if there is to be a delegation involved, it must be the european parliament's saarc delegation! the maoist underground rebels have tried to take advantage of the hour and further destabilize the country. the government and the opposition must finally learn to reach out to others, to develop consensus. the european union must be able to play a leading role in the world, and it must be able to play a leading role in the world. the epp group calls on the king and on responsible politicians to do everything in their power to relieve the people of their fears and worries, and the eu, commissioner, must set the tone! i would like to ask the commission to open an office in kathmandu, the seat of the saarc general secretariat. from there we can implement the excellent cooperation agreement between the european union and nepal. it's an excellent base. we have already seen that the european parliament has been very active in this area. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. on behalf of the socialist group, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs redondo, for her work, which has been unexpectedly updated in the light of the recent outbreak of the mcs. the parallels between swine fever and foot-and-mouth disease are obvious. the community has in the past adopted a policy of non-vaccination for both mcs and swine fever. the dramatic events surrounding the icrc have shown us that unconditional non-vaccination is a matter for consideration. i'm not saying that we should be vaccinating people everywhere in the future. the killing of infected stocks, known as stamping out, must remain the main pillar of the control strategy. however, vaccination should be given greater prominence. i think that we must not stop at the question of vaccination, but develop a comprehensive strategy for the prevention of animal diseases, particularly in times when the disease is not present. these include, for example, increased controls on imports from third countries, controls at airports, but also quarantine measures for new arrivals to livestock. another important point is the principle of regionalization. the commission must act very quickly and negotiate with the eu's trading partners to enforce this principle. it is not possible that all eu countries should suffer from import restrictions from third countries if a corresponding animal disease occurs in one or only a few member states. the european union already applies this principle to imports from third countries. now the third countries must grant us the same conditions. in this context, the marker vaccines are of great importance. the rapporteur has also made this point very clearly. further investment is needed in these vaccines and in the development of differential diagnosis techniques in order to be able to distinguish vaccinated animals from those with the disease in the near future and subsequently to enable the economic use of these vaccinated animals. i would like to make a few comments on the question of the use of food waste, which is a matter of concern to us all. these have been used for animal feed for decades and must continue to be so in the future. as is currently the case with animal meal, i support a conditional ban as set out in the green group's amendment no 37, i.e. the use of these residues is only possible if appropriate sterilisation procedures are applied. i think that if a precise control is carried out - and the past has shown this in many member states - then it is also possible to continue to use this high-quality protein carrier. this proposal by the greens deserves our support, since it still allows recycling but places stricter conditions on it.
in writing. - (de) classical swine fever is one of the plagues of the animal world in europe. contraction of the virus by pigs - a virus that is harmless to humans - can occur at any time since the virus is still present due to the presence of infected boar herds in some regions of the eu. it is wise to develop control strategies in quiet times and not in times of crisis; prevention measures should be at the forefront of these strategies as the outbreak of an epizootic disease can lead to mass slaughter of animals. eu vaccination policy has been more in the spotlight with the recent outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease. the use of traditional vaccines involves long periods of complete isolation of the herd in the regions concerned. the situation would be different if the marker vaccines, which are still being researched and improved, could be used. vaccinated animals must be distinguishable from infected animals. mrs redondo has presented a well balanced report on the problem of classical swine fever. i support the call for increased research and development in the field of vaccines. the use of marker vaccines could be a very useful additional tool in the control of disease in areas with a high density of pigs and could prevent the slaughter of animals on a mass scale. when it comes to animal diseases, hygiene plays a big role. the preparation of feedingstuffs must be subject to very strict rules, which must be controlled and monitored. i reject the total ban on the feeding of domestic slaughter. we would destroy rich foodstuffs for the sole reason that we are unable to prepare them, that is, to heat them to a temperature that is hygienically sound.
- madam president, i am sorry to have to say the same thing again and again about wednesday, but there is always the same grievance. i see that question time has been postponed and shortened again. every time i protest, i am told that this is an exception. the exception is now becoming the rule, because we have overloaded wednesday by the absurd cancellation of friday. i therefore ask you to ensure that, whatever the friday question is, which we cannot now resolve, that wednesday is fully restored to its rightful place. this means that a full hour and a half will be allotted to question time, because the right to ask questions is a fundamental right of every member of parliament. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think this directive will be a success. we have here the model of european work. first, parliament had made a groundbreaking request, which then took the council four years to adopt a common position of the 15 member states, which was based solely on national interests. the second reading of the parliament then pushed the council to the limits of europe by imposing the optimum requirements on artists and auction houses. finally, after a difficult struggle with the council and the commission, a solution was found which was acceptable and satisfactory to all concerned. we have restored european competition in the art market by creating a level playing field for auction houses and galleries in the eu. it seems to me particularly important that the commission should regularly examine whether and when the european art market, and not just the national one, is actually affected, and that appropriate adjustments should be made. we have improved social protection for artists and their heirs by ensuring that they are now uniformly guaranteed a financial contribution to the value of their works. so i think we have taken an important first step towards more competition and more security in the art sector in europe. i have the honour to ask the house to accept the outcome of the negotiations.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the rapporteur, mr rothley, was unfortunately interrupted today at an important meeting in luxembourg and has asked me to represent him today, to lend him my voice, which i am happy to do. the draft fifth motor vehicle directive is intended to further improve the protection of victims of accidents, while at the same time taking account of the requirements of the internal market. what do we suggest? firstly, any damage caused by a road accident in the european union - whether it is a crossborder or a national accident - will be covered within a reasonable period of time or face financial penalties. secondly, the amount of compensation should be at least eur 2 million, regardless of the number of victims and the nature of the damage. i have my doubts, however, whether this amount will be sufficient. in december 1998, a british judge ruled in the case of a dutch student who had broken his neck in an accident and was paralyzed from the neck down. the court awarded the victim damages of about £9 million, of which about £8 million was for property damage. thirdly, there is still uncertainty as to who will be liable for an accident caused by a vehicle without a registration plate or with a forged or stolen registration plate. we need a clear and favourable regulation for the accident victim. the guarantee fund of the country in which the accident occurred is to be introduced. for example, a fugitive dutch driver causes an accident in italy with a vehicle stolen in poland and with a forged german registration plate. in future, this will be the italian guarantee fund alone, which will of course be seeking to make a comeback. fourthly, protection for a policyholder temporarily working in another member state is to be extended to 12 months. during this time, he should not have to register his vehicle or take out a new insurance policy. this is only part of the proposals. it's more of a cleanup. we shall deal with the real problems of the future at a later stage, namely the reform of the compensation of intangible damage in the european union. we discussed this last year in trier at the european law academy. this means protecting vulnerable road users, pedestrians and cyclists. this was the theme of the second european day of traffic rights in trier this year. that is, direct claim by the accident victim against his own insurance. i think that's a modern idea. so let the commission get to work!
the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen of this important house! let me begin by thanking you for the good cooperation during the swedish presidency. it is important that the various institutions of the union support, cooperate, inspire and criticize each other, but never forget that we have a common mission to develop our union. the swedish presidency aimed to move from important decisions to the implementation of these decisions. we did not have the ambition to add new decisions, but to implement decisions already taken. we wanted to concentrate on three areas, which i could tell you about when i am in parliament at the beginning of the presidency. it was the enlargement of the union, employment and environmental issues. we also wanted to develop the union's common foreign and security policy. i do not claim to cover the swedish presidency in its entirety in my report, but i do make some reflections on the six months we have now passed. we have worked extremely hard with the commission to push forward the enlargement negotiations. it was a task designed to demonstrate the realism of the plan for the enlargement negotiations drawn up by the commission. we can now see that under the swedish presidency we carried out all that we were supposed to carry out and a little more. the very ambitious timetable set by the commission proved to be realistic. this was the basis for the european council when we said in gothenburg that we estimate that we will have completed the negotiations for the best prepared countries before the end of 2002 and that we could then also say that we envisage the first of the current candidate countries taking part in the european parliament elections in 2004 as members of the union. we got the clear signal about the expansion we wanted. we got it because the negotiations had been successful. this is not, of course, the end of the enlargement process, but it is an important step forward. it is necessary to maintain concentration, to maintain support for the work of the commission, to maintain support for the forthcoming presidencies, but also to recognise that many of the difficulties of the enlargement process are actually within the existing union and not in relations with the applicant countries. the preparation of common positions for the 15 member states is the most demanding task we have to perform within the union. then there is another demanding job. our friends and colleagues in the applicant countries have the task of implementing reforms in their countries to prepare them for membership of the union. we must not forget, however, that we ourselves are dealing with an internal debate within the union which, from a political point of view, is perhaps as difficult as the reform work our friends are undertaking in the applicant countries. we said in gothenburg that enlargement would be a fact by 2004, an irreversible process, which the french president called the project. when we said that, we also said that we must be realistic and realise that there are some countries which need extra support in their preparations. this includes romania and bulgaria. we are not talking about extra financial support, but about support for the negotiations. when sweden took over the presidency, we also had the ambition to develop foreign and security policy. we did not, however, give it much prominence in our programme, even though we mentioned it. we chose instead the strategy of trading. i am convinced that what we have managed to achieve in foreign policy will be something that will grow under the next presidency. the development is in the european union's favour in terms of external relations. i am thinking in particular of three important factors. firstly, foreign policy is increasingly shaped by values, democracy and human rights. secondly, foreign policy is increasingly linked to economic relations, not least trade. thirdly, foreign policy action is increasingly linked and will for our part be linked to a progressive and fair aid policy. this last is something we give too little time and attention to. it's an underestimated factor in foreign relations. these three factors indicate a trend towards the union. and then if we can act together based on our values, we can also have an impact. we have developed relations with russia under the swedish presidency. we have not for a moment concealed our criticism of the situation in chechnya, for example. we have never hidden our views on the situation of free media in russia, but we have developed relations to create a trusting dialogue and economic cooperation. we also said russia is not enough. russia is a major factor. in that part of europe, it is also a matter of developing relations with ukraine, a large country, a country of strategic importance, a country with a european identity, a country which must have a european option. the european council also welcomed the progress made in the implementation of the lisbon strategy and the commission's communication on the future of the european union. in this way the union is also developing that relationship, a foreign policy relationship. we have also met for the first time in our presidency with the american president in the group of fifteen. the 15 member states had a direct dialogue with the american president in the same way as we had with the russian president. in this context, of course, there was a great deal of discussion about the kyoto issue, which we certainly do not share, and there was no point in hiding it. on the contrary, there is reason to have a very open and hard debate, because we believe that the united states is not living up to the obligations that it has previously signalled that it was prepared to assume. i am glad that the european union was in full agreement with the united states in the dialogue on kyoto. this was extremely important. relations with the united states are not just about kyoto. it is also, of course, the situation in the balkans, the situation in the middle east and other international issues where we are close and have every reason to cooperate. the swedish presidency has also stressed the union's presence in the middle east. this is important. the middle east is the neighbourhood of the european union. if the crisis in the middle east escalates further, as we all see there is a tremendous risk of, it will also become our crisis, which must be countered by all available political means. we have also had a very active period on the part of the presidency, together with the commission and the secretary-general, high representative javier solana, on the middle east. this is how one can count foreign policy activities. add north and south korea! the peace process must continue and be completed, and the european union could also play a role in this process at the right time. the picture is one of a union which is becoming more and more active in foreign policy, because we stand for common values, common views, a common attitude! when we act together, we have an impact. that's the signal. enlargement, foreign policy, environmental issues - these issues were extremely important to the swedish presidency. we had very good support from the commission and commissioner wallström, namely the sixth environmental action programme and then the commission's report on sustainable development. in gothenburg we were able to lay down principles for the future approach to environmental issues. we were able to state that these processes are now also to be incorporated into the lisbon process. we were thus able to take a decisive step towards sustainable development in its three dimensions: economic, social and ecological. this was a very good basis for the commission, which each presidency and the commission will now work on, and make more concrete. maybe it's not fast enough. i have a feeling it never does when it comes to environmental issues. on the other hand, we have the processes. we have the direction and we have the first necessary political decisions. i think this was an extremely important decision in gothenburg. we also discussed economic issues in gothenburg. we took up some of the decisions that were left over, so to speak, at the stockholm summit - the european single sky, patent issues, general economic developments, the demographic issue, sustainable pension systems. these were also on the agenda, which of course do not create much conflict within the union today, but are more of an attempt to work together on issues which we know will actually determine the lives of people in our part of the world in the next 20 to 30 years. we have also had occasion during our presidency to push a proposal on transparency in the union, on access to documents, to a decision. let me say that it would not have been possible to reach that decision without the very active support of parliament. this is a great example of how parliament, together with the council and also with the commission, can bring about change. of course, i'm not entirely satisfied. we could have gone further, but as in all political contexts, you can't have everything. we reached a compromise, which was going in the right direction. it made the union more open, but it was not a finished product. i would like to see the debate continue, but citizens have nevertheless been given better opportunities to follow what we are doing in the union, to critically examine and add options on objective grounds - on objective grounds precisely because the information is available. we have also started the debate on the future during the swedish presidency. it will dominate the belgian presidency and will eventually result in a major decision in 2004. the nice guidelines are the mandate, that is to say, what should essentially be in the framework of the debate. secondly, you and i both know that in a debate on the future of the union, we will not be content to concentrate on the four issues we mentioned in nice, but there will be a wider debate. let's have a wide-ranging debate. let there be a debate on what the union actually aims at, what the union wants to achieve and then a discussion on how it should be achieved. we should not always start with a discussion on the structure of institutions, the construction of institutions, and then end up in the political discussion of what we want. turn the debate around; invite the people of europe, make the debate broad, set no limits. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. our ambition was to start a broad debate and we have done so. as i said at the beginning, the swedish presidency has been working hard to cooperate with parliament. i counted yesterday and found that swedish ministers have taken part in debates and discussions in this house or in other constellations attached to parliament on 86 occasions. it's been incredibly rewarding for us, and i want to thank you for that. i would also like to say that we now believe that we have made a breakthrough with the statute of members and can bring that issue to a resolution. that's what it looks like after a preliminary ruling. i am glad that we can also say, when we talk about parliament and the relations between the presidency and parliament, that we have also received a great many good comments and proposals from you. finally, i would like to thank all the officials of the commission, parliament and the council who have assisted us during the presidency. of course, i am also deeply grateful to my own staff in the government office, who made it possible for us to say that we have come a long way since the end of the swedish presidency. during our semester, we took a few steps in the direction we wanted to go. i hope that the belgian presidency will now continue to work on these important issues. i will do everything i can to ensure that my colleague guy verhofstadt gets all the good support he needs, just as i have had the exceptional support of jacques chirac and lionel jospin, the french president and prime minister, during the swedish presidency. this was an absolute prerequisite for our success as a presidency, and i am deeply grateful for it. finally, madam president, i would say that as we go on our summer holidays in the various parliaments around europe, there is a question which i think we should take with us, namely the question which should rightly shape the debate on the future, the question of how to make the union more open, more results-oriented and how to bring it closer to our citizens. how can that be? what is the trend? what is possible in an enlarged union? the union will grow. we know that now, after this presidency. it will grow into a great union with perhaps five, ten, perhaps even more member states in this parliament as well as in the european council. thank you for your cooperation. i look forward to continuing our relations with the european parliament.
the commission. madam president, mr prime minister, distinguished members of the european parliament! i would of course like to begin by thanking you for giving me the opportunity to come here and present the commission's assessment of the european council in gothenburg. this meeting, of course, also dealt with a wide range of issues. two decisions deserve special attention, as they will advance european integration and shape policy in the medium and long term. i therefore wish to concentrate my remarks on these two resolutions. firstly, the european council has given us a firm timetable for the first round of enlargement. the negotiations with the candidate countries which are ready should be completed by the end of next year. the new member states will then be able to participate as full members in the 2004 elections to the european parliament. secondly, the european council gave its support to a strategy for sustainable development. this strategy implies that the union is committed to taking certain measures to ensure that prosperity in europe and the rest of the world is maintained in the long term. the environment has been placed at the heart of our policy through the lisbon process. these are important and concrete decisions which the commission welcomes. the violence in the streets of gothenburg - i was there too and saw it with my own eyes - must not overshadow the important political decisions taken in gothenburg. we all condemn this violence. because stones can never replace argument. nor do they reflect the interests of citizens, either in the member states or in the candidate countries. i would like to begin by commenting on the decision of the summit on enlargement. the european council concluded, and i quote: 'assuming that progress towards meeting the accession criteria continues at an unabated pace, the roadmap should allow the completion of negotiations by the end of 2002 for those candidate countries which are ready. the aim is to enable them to participate in the 2004 european elections as members.' the european union's commitment to welcoming new members has never been expressed more clearly or more precisely than in gothenburg. the process is now irreversible. the union is ready to meet the challenge of enlargement. in gothenburg, the timetable outlined in the conclusions of the nice summit was specified. this has created a realistic opportunity for the negotiations with the most advanced states to be completed by the end of next year, and the objective has been set of their participation in the 2004 european elections. the timetable which the commission set for the negotiations has therefore proved to be realistic. the extraordinary way in which the swedish presidency handled the agenda and its determined way of conducting the negotiations has made a significant contribution to this outcome. the prospects for a successful conclusion of the negotiations are now better than ever. the negotiations will continue in accordance with the principles set out below: the candidate countries will be judged solely on their own merits, the negotiations will be differentiated and the countries which started the negotiations at the beginning of 2000 will have a chance to compete. we want to be clear on this point: the enlargement process can only succeed if there is sufficient political support. the negotiations must therefore be conducted with a certain degree of flexibility, so that the concerns and wishes of the applicant countries can be taken into account. the social cost to the people of the candidate countries must be considered. we cannot impose unreasonable demands on the applicant countries in terms of the financial burden they will have to bear in adopting eu standards. madam president, i would like to thank you. on 15 may, president prodi presented the commission's proposal for a sustainable development strategy to you in this house. today we are pleased to note that the european council supports a sustainable development strategy for the european union. the meeting did not reach agreement on all the individual objectives and measures set out in the commission's communication. the conclusions of gothenburg, however, give clear indications of the direction in which the european council wants our policy and our society to develop. the conclusions also call on the council to examine the individual proposals of the commission. sustainable development is defined by the brundtland commission as 'development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs'. the gothenburg summit is an important step forward for the european union in this development. first, the gothenburg conclusions stress that we must do better at designing our policies: we need to address conflicting interests, policy inconsistencies, in a thoughtful and open way rather than ignoring them. we must pursue a policy which can serve several objectives at the same time. we must balance the immediate needs against the long-term consequences of decisions and their consequences outside the eu. this applies to all the institutions of the union. the european council has called on them to improve inter-sectoral coordination of domestic policies. the most important decision in this context was the decision to complement the lisbon strategy with an environmental dimension. sustainable development will be a regular item on the agenda of the spring european council meetings from next year. this is a major breakthrough. the process is defined and the commission will prepare this annual review with a summary report. in political terms, this means that the environmental dimension of sustainable development now has the same dignity as economic and social issues. the lisbon process has become even more important as it is now the framework for promoting all dimensions of sustainable development. the european council also noted that the commission will introduce in its action plan for better regulation, to be presented at the laeken european council, mechanisms for all major policy proposals to include a sustainability impact assessment. the council also stressed the importance of involving stakeholders. we will put forward concrete proposals to improve the consultation of stakeholders in the forthcoming white paper on governance. member states are encouraged to develop their own national strategies for sustainable development. it is of course also an important task for the members of the european parliament to follow up this in their respective member states. these are important decisions, as sustainable development cannot be achieved without effective procedures and effective decision-making to ensure a consistent and long-term policy. secondly, in line with the commission's proposal, the european council has focused on four priority areas for sustainable development. these areas complement the economic and social objectives of the lisbon programme: the first is climate change. they are one of the most serious problems of our time. the kyoto protocol is a first step towards addressing this problem. as you know, the eu is doing its utmost at the moment to try to save the protocol. climate change is costing us and the rest of the world a huge amount of money. the cost is greatest for those living in poor countries. at the same time, climate policy offers economic opportunities for cleaner and renewable energy sources, if we use them properly, and for more efficient energy use. secondly, public health. threats include the accumulation of chemicals in the environment and the increasing prevalence of antibiotic resistance. this is an area which concerns the citizens directly and involves our citizens. thirdly, the waste of natural resources and the loss of biodiversity. fourthly, the transport system. if it is to work in the long term, traffic growth, congestion and environmental impact must be limited. these four areas require decisive leadership and rapid action. the policy proposals presented by the commission in its communication are still relevant. sustainable development must be the top priority in the review of common policies. the european council takes note of this, with particular reference to agriculture and fisheries. the meeting also set out a number of specific overall objectives and actions for each of these four priority areas. i would like to stress that sustainable development should not just be about problems, concerns and costs, but should be about innovation, investment, growth and new jobs as much as it is about environmental protection, health and quality of life. sustainable development as a concept and idea offers new economic opportunities. we are glad that the european council shares this view and has stressed this fact. finally, the commission europe also has an international responsibility for sustainable development. the presidency conclusions reiterated the union's commitment to achieving the un target of 0.7% of gdp for aid and development assistance. early next year, the commission will present a communication on how the union can contribute globally to sustainable development. this communication, together with the sustainable development strategy presented in gothenburg, will be the eu's main contribution to the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg next year. madam president, i would like to thank you. europe's citizens expect the union to meet not only the needs of today but also the future of their children and grandchildren. citizens expect us to be part of the solution to the global problems of environmental degradation and underdevelopment. this is what sustainable development is all about. it is therefore an important step forward that the european council in gothenburg has endorsed a strategy for sustainable development and thus launched the process of drawing up and implementing it. enlargement is a historic opportunity to ensure stability and prosperity in europe for a long time to come. the concrete timetable agreed in gothenburg is therefore of the utmost importance. we consider the gothenburg european council to have been a success and to have produced concrete results. this meeting marks the end of a presidency with which the commission has had a good cooperation and which has achieved a great deal, not least in my own area of responsibility. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to express my surprise that the president of the european commission is not here today. this is a debate about the swedish presidency, about an important summit, and i am already astonished. i do not mean to be critical of you, commissioner wallström, i appreciate you, i appreciate your work, i appreciate your personality. but it is not right that the president of the commission should also be represented by a member of the commission who belongs to the country holding the presidency. this is not a swedish company, but we are discussing the future of europe. i expect the president of the european commission to be present in the plenary on such an important matter in future. (applause from the centre) i have to make a positive assessment first and then a critical remark. first of all, i would like to remind you that our group has proposed that we conclude the accession negotiations with the first countries by autumn 2002, so that the first countries can then take part in the european elections in june 2004. the european parliament has adopted this, the commission has adopted this, the european council in nice has adopted this and you are now expressly putting it even more forcefully. i know there's been a lot of resistance to this. but you have prevailed, and we are also grateful that a large majority of the swedish people are in favour of enlargement. if you are right, if you are doing something good, mr president-in-office, then you deserve credit for it, and i would like to express my gratitude and appreciation to you for having included the 2004 deadline in the decision taken at gothenburg. (applause from the centre and right) if we are talking about the swedish people, a very sympathetic people, then i hope, also in your interest, mr president-in-office, then as swedish prime minister, that in future the support for the single european currency will be the same as the support for enlargement, so that sweden too remains fully integrated into our european political family. that is a wish for you and for all of us, because we are a community. this includes sweden's decision to adopt the euro. (applause from the centre and the right) but now for a critical point. there have been the tragic riots in gothenburg, and i do not want to comment on the police's handling of security policy, because i have far too little knowledge of that. but i would like to comment on what you said on swedish television on 17 june. my colleague, the chairwoman of the swedish delegation to our group, gunilla carlsson, has already said something about this. you spoke of fascist forces. i am determined to fight fascists, right-wing extremists wherever they appear, politically and if they use violence, with all our resolve. but on thursday, at our preparatory meeting of the group of the european people's party, we saw that the red flags were being waved through gothenburg, and the actual violence did not take place until friday/saturday. there were pictures of che guevara, and there were pictures of fidel castro, so you can't just say that these are fascists. we also know, and i quote a major european newspaper, that the core was an anti-fascist action, which acted as a left-wing revolutionary, militant and critical of the european movement and world trade. we would have expected you to be as critical of these left-wing revolutionaries who are using violence as you are of those who are using violence from the right. europe and our legal system are too important to be blind in one eye. let us not, for the sake of a mere party interest, ignore the overall interest of our democratic order and the rule of law, and let us act together against all forms of violence, from whatever side it comes, from the extreme right or from the extreme left, in the unity of democratic solidarity. (applause from the centre) mr president-in-office, i would like to return to the question of recognition. they have made a great effort to be transparent, which is also a hallmark of sweden, and we have made some progress in publishing the documents. you've done some good, but you're not the only one. for example, your compatriot, our colleague charlotte cederschiöld, has been very helpful in helping us to achieve greater transparency here. let's keep going down this road. we also want to see more cooperation with the council of ministers and a greater presence here in the european parliament. there were also some critical remarks at the beginning, which were not really aimed at sweden but at the council of ministers. but i think we can build on your work. i would like to conclude by saying that the positive signals are that you have invited russian president putin to the stockholm summit and american president george bush to the gothenburg summit. it would certainly be a good thing if we in the european parliament, perhaps in reverse order, invited president bush and then president putin, both of them, to our parliament, because our relations with america and russia are crucial for the future of our european union. mr president-in-office of the council, it is not for me to give a grade, but a swedish newspaper asked me a few weeks ago what grade i would give it. if the next swedish presidency refrains from covert partisan positions and really puts the interests of europe first, then it could be judged 'very good'. i wish that for us together. i wish sweden a good european future. (applause from the centre)
the council has already taken a decision on this. the images of gothenburg were terrifying. vandalism, wanton destruction, criminal violence - all of these are condemned and are condemned by my group in the strongest possible terms. this cannot happen again! people who want to express their opinions, who want to exercise their right to demonstrate or protest against political decisions must be able to do so in the future without restrictions, as the approximately 20 000 peaceful demonstrators in gothenburg did. the european summits will continue to be seen by interested citizens as a political opportunity to express their ideas and expectations, and this is a good thing, because the democratic construction of europe must take greater account of the concerns of citizens. politics, governments, must no longer be allowed to go beyond the minds and hearts of citizens. the swedish presidency has made a great effort in this area. it has tried to address the democratic deficit in europe as a problem, and this is indeed to be acknowledged. only the results are pretty thin. however, this is not the sole responsibility of the swedish government. all governments are welcome. what we need in the public debate on the future of europe is a broad debate. it must be conducted with a clear and objective objective approach and, madam president, mr president-in-office, you know that we in this parliament want a convention to prepare the next intergovernmental conference. they have made preparations here and it will now be up to the belgian presidency to take this convention to laeken. i very much welcome the fact that there are already proposals on the table here to extend the agenda and to include other topics in the debate on the future of europe.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, and madam commissioner! i too must add a little water to the wine, because in my view the swedish presidency has twice failed because it has not been able to resolve the dispute between two member states over gibraltar and thus end the deadlock in european air transport policy. the citizens cannot understand why important legislative proposals, such as the one on increased compensation for overbooking in air transport, are being negotiated in the council but not adopted. it is equally incomprehensible that important legislative initiatives, such as the creation of a single european sky, are already blocked in the commission. this, mr president-in-office, would have been a good example of where the council could have done something, because everyone knows that disputes like gibraltar cannot be settled at ministerial level between transport ministers. this is a boss thing. but here the bosses have failed twice. i hope at least that the substance of the gothenburg protocol is now correct. the council's position is that the european union should be able to take action to help the people of europe. so let us see if at least two weeks after the swedish presidency a result comes out. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. commissioner, you know as well as we do that the many delays, the lines in the sky, are not just annoying for the citizens, that they are late for their holidays, that business appointments are bursting, that it is expensive. they know as well as we do that the senseless burning of kerosene in the sky is environmentally unacceptable. we need a sensible european regulation to put an end to the delays. we are expecting your proposal for this in the summer.
the council. mr president, i would like to thank you. i shall briefly comment on a few of the comments, but first let me express my warm thanks for the recognition that the swedish presidency has received from the various political groups in parliament. i would like to thank all those who have worked hard and committed themselves to the swedish presidency. the group of senior officials led by state secretary lars danielsson should of course also be mentioned in this context. i would like to say something about the demonstrations in gothenburg: we are democrats. we stand for the right to protest. we are against violence. we condemn all those who use violence to suppress political processes. what happened in gothenburg was that we had a comprehensive democratic dialogue with people who had different views than us. that was good, because it is the purpose of democracy to meet and break down opinions. what happened in addition was that there was a relatively small group of internationally very active hooligans, as we have seen before in other contexts, and as i am afraid we may see in the future. they must be met with a very firm response from the police and the police authorities, who did a very good job in gothenburg. these militant hooligans often call themselves anti-fascists. i must say, i've never seen anything more fascist than their methods of operation. their whole approach to politics is fascist. their whole method of working with the use of force is fascism. when i label these communists as fascists, it is really to show that the two extremes have met. we have seen many examples of this in european politics in the past. we may have to go through this again, but let us never, as democrats, turn against each other in this matter! we must have a united front against violence, against fascism and against communism. that is the experience of gothenburg. i also regret that the leader of the ppe-de group, mr poettering, is not present. it would have been useful if he had been able to listen directly to these humble remarks by the council representatives. i hope that he will be able to learn these simple thoughts through the protocol. in his elegant and well-worded speech, pat cox pointed out, among other things, a point to which i attach great importance, namely the agreement we have reached on takeovers. i would be extremely concerned if parliament did not follow the result of the conciliation. it is a unique event and one which will have fundamental implications for the work of parliament in the future. i therefore call on parliament to be loyal to the conciliation process that we have had, as pat cox put it. let me also say that i appreciate what mr van velzen said, and which i also mentioned in my introduction, namely that we tend to regard the applicant countries as those bearing the greatest difficulties. it is clear that they are having difficulty adapting to the demands we are making, but their reform process is being driven by strength and clear direction. as we now come to the final stage of the negotiations, i think it will be in the circle of member states that it will be most difficult to formulate positions. it is our experience during our short presidency that this was the area on which we had to spend the most effort. i fully share the view that there are difficult chapters ahead, such as agriculture and regional policy, which will of course also be at the heart of the structure we have now of european politics. i would also say that mr corbett, from the united kingdom, had a very wise view of the nature of the presidency. i would like to warn against the trend we are now seeing, namely that every time there is a new presidency of the european council, people think that the union will change fundamentally. it is extremely important that those who lead the council see their task as a continuous responsibility, one presidency intervening in the other. the policy must be fixed and possibly pushed forward. however, the common interest of the union must be the guiding principle. the national aspect must therefore be put in the background. that's how we've been working. some people have found it boring, but i am convinced that this is a necessary approach if the rotating presidency working method is to be maintained in the future. i'm very fond of what corbett has said. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. let me just tell him straight up that i've heard it before. what have we been doing during the swedish presidency? foreign policy, environmental policy, enlargement of the union - these are all very much future debates! some, however, refer to the structures of the union as the debate on the future, and often add that a federal approach is also needed to qualify as a debater on the future of the eu. i do not think so, but i think that the debate on the future must now be about what we want to achieve, and then, gradually, under the belgian presidency, under the spanish presidency, under the danish presidency, let us enter into a discussion about what this political will requires in the form of developed institutions within the union. we shall see, and then the contribution we have made during the swedish presidency will be a debate for the future. it is about enlargement, it is about foreign and security policy, it is about the environment. let me say to mr bradbourn that i am grateful for his contribution. he was, from his conservative point of view, pointing out an important point. it has been said that the environmental decisions in gothenburg would not be detailed, would not be in any way binding or in any way challenging. however, the criticism coming from bradbourn that they go too far and are too detailed shows that they are. they're detailed! all those who criticise these conclusions for not going far enough have in fact received a rather good and clear reply in his speech. i am grateful for mr bradbourne's comments, but i do not share his views. that's about how i'd like to put it. finally, let me say that mr dell'alba raised what may prove to be the biggest event of the six months of the swedish presidency. what i am thinking of spontaneously, namely the extradition of milošević to the hague, is of course not a direct consequence of the swedish judiciary's actions, but it is a consequence of the european union's firm stance on this issue. it is a consequence of a value-based approach to foreign relations. it's a consequence of our insistence on human rights. the extradition of milo ević to the hague may well be described in the future as the truly great, important event when foreign policy changes its character, when those who fight against their own citizens or others, when those who wage war on ethnic grounds, wherever they are in the world, are seen, observed and will be held to account, held to account before an internationally unified political opinion, based on the values of democracy and human rights. the extradition of milo ević to the hague is a major political event and a victory for all those who believe in a foreign policy based on common values. thank you for the excellent cooperation during the swedish presidency! (applause) i would like to thank you.
- i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. see minutes of the sitting. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday.
- the next item is the report (a5-0237/2001) by mr lehne, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on company law in respect of takeover bids (c5-0221/2001 - 1995/0341 (cod)).
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the members for their participation in the debate, and in particular jimmy provan for the fair opinion he has just given here in the house. i'd like to add a little fuel to the fire, though. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we wanted to create a level playing field in europe equality of arms in corporate takeovers . we have clearly failed to do so with this outcome from the conciliation committee. we have offered every compromise in the negotiations. mr provan has explained that this compromise was not reached because the council rejected any kind of compromise, insisted on its common position on the crucial issue and was in no way prepared to move a single millimetre. one of our compromise offers, one of the last we made, was the entry into force of a directive on a level playing field, which we have been proposing for some time and which, as i learned last weekend, has been before the council since 1972, much longer than the 12 years in question. the entry into force of the neutrality obligation is to be made conditional on the entry into force of such a directive on a level playing field. even this, although it is a matter of course, has been rejected by the council. it was only agreed that the commission should convene a group of experts to look into this issue and then possibly develop proposals from it. i wonder what the logic is of convening a group of experts but of agreeing on the directive beforehand. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i don't think what's happening here is convincing. i therefore conclude that this is not a compromise but the capitulation of the majority of parliament's delegation to the council's position. all this in the context of important decisions to be taken in the conciliation procedure - i am thinking here only of the money laundering directive, i am thinking of the whole lamfalussy follow-up and all that goes with it. i would say that if we approve this directive we are damaging the institutional role of parliament, and that is why we cannot do so. regardless, there are a number of objective reasons why you cannot do this. the result of this directive will be that in future protected companies will be able to take over unprotected companies. that is the obvious consequence. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in the interests of the community to take a decision on the matter. or if i draw the comparison between the united states of america and europe: the americans have gone the exact opposite way. they have introduced a so-called business judgment rule which says that the company directors can defend themselves however they want - in europe we ban that. what will be the result of such a decision if american companies can take over european companies more easily than the other way around? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is always said that if we suddenly rejected this directive, it would cause chaos or have a negative impact on the financial markets in europe. the americans are proving the opposite, they have gone in exactly the opposite direction, and no one can claim that the american stock market is less dynamic than the european one. so obviously, these connections don't exist. i would also like to remind you of the keyword location benefits. there's one state, delaware, that has a relatively restrictive takeover law. interestingly, this state is home to 40 percent of the companies listed on the new york stock exchange, and even 60 percent of the companies represented in the index. i ask you, why is that? i can only point out that i believe these conditions are a very important factor in the location decisions of companies. no one's against shareholder protection. i'm a shareholder myself. it is therefore not in doubt that i am, of course, logically in favour of shareholder protection, as are most citizens who are shareholders, but on equal terms. the phrase of jimmy provan, "one share - one vote", is exactly what does not apply in europe. that is the crucial problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to cut a long story short: the swedish prime minister said that the directive was unique; i share that view, it is uniquely bad in its present form. that is why it must be rejected!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr bolkestein, i would like to thank you for your report. mediation is a matter of balance, a matter of compromise. it's a matter of giving and taking on both sides. in the case of european legislation, we often have to negotiate hard in the conciliation procedure between parliament and the council. but in the end, as a rule, there is a balanced result that the european parliament can approve. in the case of the so-called takeover directive, which should now be ready after many years of work, this is not the case. the european parliament must reject the result of a night's adventure in luxembourg. it's no good at all. i say this quite frankly, although i was part of the parliament's delegation to the negotiations. i also want to say that we have never been treated so coldly in the conciliation committees in which i have been a member. no sign of mutual giving and taking! the council's negotiating committee has largely swept aside the european parliament's ideas, adopted by an overwhelming majority. i do not need to go over the details i have already mentioned point by point. but i warn you that this parliament is turning its decisions, which were adopted by a really convincing majority, under the carpet and accepting an obscure result of the conciliation. we would lose face and be rightly laughed at by the citizens for our weakness. the result of the mediation before us is so bad, by the way, that commissioner bolkestein appeared before the press after the night in luxembourg and said that there was still a need for legal finesse. i think it was a joke, because there was plenty of time for years of legal work. but let's give the commissioner his wish. if we reject the outcome of the conciliation, mr bolkestein will soon be able to present a workable new draft which will be in line not only with his own ideas but also with those of the elected representatives of the 370 million europeans. (applause from the centre)
president of the european central bank. – it is my great pleasure today to present the third annual report of the ecb, two and a half years after the launch of the euro and less than half a year before the single currency will become fully visible for our citizens in the form of banknotes and coins. the year 2000 was a remarkable year for the euro area, as economic growth reached its highest level for over a decade and was accompanied by continued strong job creation. the hicp in the euro area has also, alas, been above 2% since the middle of 2000, mainly owing to oil price increases and the depreciation of the exchange rate of the euro last year. while this increase in the hicp to above the ecb's definition of price stability is not welcome, the ecb cannot and should not avoid short-term price fluctuations caused by such temporary factors. nonetheless, it is crucial to prevent any spillover of transitory short-term pressures into medium-term inflation expectations. during 2000 the ecb had to be particularly vigilant in this regard in a context of strong economic growth and given that monetary developments clearly indicated the existence of upward risks to price stability. it was for this reason that we raised interest rates six times in 2000. by doing so, the ecb contributed to ensuring the sustainability of non-inflationary economic growth in the euro area. in this respect, the evolution of long-term interest rates in the euro area in 2000 indicated that financial markets generally expected medium-term price developments to remain in line with the definition of price stability. the forecasts which became available in 2000 painted a similar picture. this is a clear indication that the ecb affirmed its credibility in 2000. before sharing with you my analysis of the current situation, let me turn to some issues raised in the draft resolution prepared by your committee on economic and monetary affairs concerning the monetary policy strategy of the ecb. i should like to begin by saying that i share the view expressed in the draft resolution that the ecb's two-pillar strategy can be understood as a means of analysing all the pieces of information relevant for monetary policy. however, there are other points in the resolution with which i would not agree. these concern the doubts expressed with regard to the definition of price stability, the importance that the first pillar should be given in our strategy and the role of projections under the second pillar. the governing council of the ecb has defined price stability in the euro area as "a year-on-year increase in the hicp for the euro area of below 2%", and has stated that "price stability has to be maintained over the medium term". the definition provided by the governing council ensures accountability and gives clear guidance to expectations of future price developments. the phrase "below 2%" clearly defines the upper boundary of the rate of hicp increases which is consistent with price stability. this upper boundary is in line with the practice of the national central banks of participating member states before the start of stage three of emu. in addition, the word "increase" clearly signals that prolonged declines in the level of the hicp index would not be deemed consistent with price stability. there should be no doubt that the commitment of the ecb to maintain price stability is compatible neither with inflation above 2% in the medium term nor with deflation. in this sense, the monetary policy of the ecb is fully symmetric, fighting both upward and downward pressures on prices which may result in outcomes not in line with our definition of price stability. within our monetary policy strategy, the first pillar assigns a prominent role to money. this reflects the fundamental monetary nature of inflation – as supported by empirical evidence, much of which is available from our working paper series – which indicates a stable long-run demand for m3 and good leading indicator properties of m3 growth for inflation in the medium term. the need to follow monetary developments is therefore crucial to analysing risks to price stability in the euro area in the medium term. i should also emphasise at this point that the quality of monetary statistics is among the highest of all statistics available in the euro area. these monetary statistics are based on a fully harmonised reporting scheme across all monetary financial institutions in the euro area. the quality of monetary statistics has recently been further improved by identifying, as a separate item, non-resident holdings of money market funds. furthermore, we expect that it will be possible for the non-resident holdings of other negotiable paper to be appropriately measured and published towards the end of the year. for all these reasons, m3 will continue to play a prominent role in the monetary policy of the ecb. with regard to the projections, and in particular to the suggestion that they should be explicitly endorsed by the governing council, let me remind you that the governing council is accountable only for maintaining price stability. it is up to the governing council to take the decisions necessary to ensure the performance of the tasks entrusted to the escb by the treaty. in this respect, the governing council decided, for several reasons, to follow a two-pillar strategy. in particular, it was decided not to follow a strategy under which monetary policy decisions would be made solely on the basis of inflation forecasts. while the staff projections play an important role in the analysis, the governing council conducts under the second pillar, it is important to understand that this analysis is not centred on these forecasts. given the difficulties of forecasting over longer-term horizons and the uncertainty regarding the appropriate economic model, the governing council does not deem it advisable to use only a single projection to analyse risks to price stability. the uncertainty surrounding forecasts has also been appropriately reflected in the manner in which the ecb publishes them, namely in the form of ranges rather than point estimates. turning to an analysis of current economic and monetary developments, after the decision on 10 may to lower the key ecb interest rates by 25 basis points, at its meetings in june the governing council considered that, on the basis of the information available, the current level of key ecb interest rates was appropriate to ensure price stability in the euro area over the medium term. since the last meeting of the governing council, there has not been any new information that would justify changing this assessment. as regards the information contained in the first pillar, monetary developments point towards a favourable outlook for the medium-term maintenance of price stability. after having followed a gradual downward trend since spring 2000, the three-month average of annual m3 growth rates has tended to broadly stabilise over recent months. when account is taken of the upward distortion to monetary figures, m3 would have been growing at around the reference value in the most recent period. moreover, the annual growth rate of loans to the private sector has continued to moderate, mainly driven by the slowdown in loans to households. with regard to the second pillar, we continue to expect the currently high rates of inflation to remain a transitory phenomenon and, in the absence of further unfavourable price shocks, inflation rates should fall below 2% in 2002. these developments are expected to take place in an environment of weaker economic growth, which should, however, remain broadly in line with trend potential growth of the euro area. in this context let me turn to an issue which has attracted considerable attention just recently: the potential impact of the cash changeover on price pressures. in general, price transparency and competition are likely to limit inflationary pressures from the cash changeover. in this respect it is also worth noting the commitment of finance ministers in the euro area, as reflected in a statement issued by the eurogroup, that, overall, the conversion into euros of all prices, charges and fees administered by their governments will be price neutral or else "smoothed" in favour of the consumer. we call on governments at other levels but also on firms to follow this example set by central governments. in addition, the public's vigilance in monitoring prices and price changes will also be important during the conversion period. the ecb will continue to pursue its mandate to maintain price stability over the medium term, irrespective of whether prices are quoted in euros or in the component currencies. we shall therefore continue to remain vigilant as regards future developments affecting the balance of risks to price stability, including – in particular – monetary developments, real gdp growth, price-setting behaviour and wage developments. at this juncture, when price developments are mainly being affected by transitory factors, it is crucial that the current upward movement of prices does not become a more lasting one, and it is therefore important that wage moderation continues. with a view to the introduction of the euro banknotes and coins, i can report that the eurosystem's preparations are well on track. at the end of june 2001 the total number of euro banknotes produced so far amounted to about 9 billion, which is about 90% of the initial launch stock. moreover, as an insurance against potential production risks, in march 2001 the ecb decided to establish a eurosystem central reserve. this reserve will amount to about 10% of the launch and logistical stocks taken together. on 1 january 2001 the eurosystem launched the "euro 2002 information campaign", which is designed to complement other information campaigns being conducted at the national level. the main objective of the campaign is not to sell the euro – the euro will sell itself – but to familiarise the general public and specific target groups with the visual appearance of the euro banknotes and their security features and to raise the awareness of citizens about the overall changeover modalities. the information campaign is progressing on schedule. it will become fully visible for citizens once the mass media part of the campaign starts on 30 august 2001, after the unveiling of the final visual appearance of the euro banknotes and their security features. the eurosystem is fully aware of the importance the successful introduction of the euro banknotes and coins will have for overall confidence in the single currency, and the careful and comprehensive preparations being made by the eurosystem are commensurate with this task. we should all bear in mind the fact that the cash changeover is an unprecedented challenge and a huge logistical exercise and that all the parties involved will have to assume their part of the overall responsibility for making the introduction of the euro banknotes and coins a success. at this point, i should like to comment briefly on the issue of the sub-frontloading of euro banknotes to the general public, a matter on which i have reported to you in greater detail on previous occasions. let me remind you that the ecb's decisions have been taken in full respect of the general interest, and after a thorough assessment of all the aspects involved. no new elements have emerged which would justify renewed reflection on this issue. turning to issues related to banking supervision also raised in the draft resolution on the ecb's annual report, i should like to recall, at the outset, that the framework for financial stability in the eu relies on two building blocks: national competence and cooperation. it is our firm belief that the impressive changes in financial markets prompted by the introduction of the euro call for a substantial enhancement of the mechanisms for cooperation between national authorities and with the eurosystem. this is so because emu is changing the nature and scope of systemic risk. it is no longer possible to assess threats to financial stability or the potential channels for the spread of contagious risks only at the domestic level. i was therefore particularly glad to see that the contribution of the escb to improving the institutional framework for financial stability and, in particular, the development of macro-prudential analysis have been acknowledged and supported in the draft resolution. the draft resolution also refers to the need to avoid conflicts between supervisory responsibilities and the responsibilities of the monetary authorities. i should like to say, first, that the empirical evidence of potential conflicts between the objectives of financial stability and price stability is unclear and, second, there is no possibility for such a conflict to arise in the context of the institutional arrangements in the euro area. indeed, the introduction of the euro has entailed an institutional separation between monetary policy decision making, which is addressed to the euro area as a whole, and the exercise of supervisory tasks, which relates to domestic institutions and markets. the decision-making mechanisms for the two tasks no longer coincide, and the risk of conflict has been overcome by the institutional set-up. to conclude my statement, i should like to underscore that the introduction of the single currency has indeed reinforced the need for the strong involvement of central banks in prudential supervision and financial stability. (applause)
the rapporteur. the commission is not you have made it very clear that a concerted effort on the part of all the partners in the european monetary union and also in the european union is necessary to actually live up to the historic event of completing the monetary union with 12 and i can assure you that you have this european parliament at your side. the european central bank is a very young institution. the euro, for which it is responsible, is not even a real currency. this is why it is so crucial for the ecb to build its own credibility. this means that the ecb's mandate must be clearly reflected in its monetary policy strategy. so far the ecb has been quite successful: even observers who are usually very critical of the ecb's monetary policy are increasingly recognising, and quite rightly so, that europe needs a specific monetary policy response and that asset prices should not be a key parameter for monetary policy decisions. however, there is still a lack of coherence in the justification of individual policies. they may have been technically correct, but purely technical explanations are not enough to reassure european markets and citizens of the ecb's commitment to price stability and to strengthen public confidence in the euro, which has unfortunately not improved significantly since the introduction of the euro. in this context, the european parliament's request for the prompt publication of the arguments in favour of a decision or non-decision, as well as the counter-arguments and the reasons underlying them and the summary minutes, could facilitate a better understanding of the ecb. max weber once spoke of the three origins of authority: tradition, charisma and reason. this modern, reason-based authority, weber believed, should be developed by the ecb to achieve respect and efficiency, and to do so permanently. reasonable authority is based on a judicious assessment of facts. such a judgment provides the basis for a sound public discourse on european monetary policy issues. this is necessary given that monetary policy is now more than ever primarily acting through the channels of financial market expectations, which have a major influence on the behaviour of economic actors. without such a leverage, a central bank can miss its targets. accountability and transparency do not mean that the ecb has to publish more and more. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the ecb has improved the transparency of its monetary policy decisions. however, more openness and transparency can do no harm, and in the coming months in particular, can strengthen confidence and acceptance of monetary union. the european currency depends on it. the following measures would be useful: first, the definition of the secondary monetary policy objective under article 105 is to be defined and published in order to make clear when the ecb can and must support growth and employment in the euro area and that the ecb also supports the conditions for high-level, employment-intensive, sustainable growth, as the eu summit in lisbon did with its target orientation towards 3% growth. secondly, the publication of the models used would be helpful. as long as the european central bank does not opt for an inflation target, it should maintain the two-pillar approach, but continuously improve its m3 calculation through increased analysis and research. the second pillar should be expanded in an analytical and disciplined manner. thirdly, the ecb's forecasts must be more precise and should not contain the same wide ranges as before, but reduced ones. they should also be issued four times a year. in order to contribute to greater understanding and transparency, the ecb needs to take ownership of its staff's forecasts. fourthly, summary minutes should be published, containing arguments for and against a monetary policy decision and an anonymous record of voting behaviour. fifthly, it should be examined whether, in the context of a revision of the treaty, parliament should not be given a kind of right of confirmation with regard to the appointment of the members of the executive board. sixthly, as an important partner in macroeconomic decisions, the ecb must contribute to improving the coordination of economic policies and to establishing an appropriate and balanced policy mix, as do other independent central banks, without compromising their independence. the primary objective of the ecb, to ensure price stability, is not an end in itself but an essential precondition for economic growth and job creation. monetary policy should therefore not be formulated in isolation but complemented by even closer macroeconomic policy coordination in the euro area. there's a lot left to be desired here. this will prevent economic integration from being driven unilaterally by the markets without taking into account employment and social aspects. another reason for improved macroeconomic coordination involving the european central bank is the increasingly rapid globalisation of financial markets, which is less and less linked to the turnover of goods and services. this suggests that interest rate changes have a stronger impact on the price of financial assets, while their effects on the real economy have become weaker than in the past. the european council in luxembourg on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the euro area. on the contrary, i believe that greater coordination would strengthen the independence of the european central bank, and a higher degree of economic convergence would also make its task easier, since it would even reduce the problem of a monetary policy that fits all and thus reduce the risk of the ecb coming under political pressure. the european central bank is in a different situation from the american federal reserve. it has not only a president, a finance minister and a public as its partners, but it has 12 presidents, 12 finance ministers and 12 european public as its partners, who do not always speak the same language. the european parliament, as the seat of the european public, wants to be a true partner in this dialogue in building a new political culture in the european union, which on the one hand respects the independence of the institutions, but on the other hand also takes into account the responsibility that each institution must have for transparency and accountability in the interests of a functioning democracy. (applause from the centre)
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. people feel that they are paying the euro-malays. according to yesterday's financial times germany, 49% of the german population are against the euro. over 50% do not believe that it will stimulate the economy or achieve the stability of the dm. 30% expect a loss in the value of their assets and 67% expect price increases when they switch to the euro. the euro has not become a job-creating machine or a brake on inflation, but that is exactly what was once promised to the citizens. i am very grateful to you, mr duisenberg, that the ecb report mentions the fall in the value of the euro as a reason for the rise in inflation, that the report at least refers to the widening inflation gap between the euro-countries and that it does not blame the dollar for the weakness of the euro. the stability of monetary value in the euro area and the exchange rate stability of the euro abroad cannot be separated. it should also be clear that the ecb's monetary policy failed to achieve its own stability objectives and that the euro has even led to a reduction in real income. the responsibility for this, however, lies less with the ecb, whose scope for action is becoming ever smaller. the policy of the euro countries has done far too little to promote economic convergence. it is truly incomprehensible that the french proposal to establish a so-called economic government has been ignored. the rather widening differences in inflation and growth between the individual euro countries are dangerous and should, in my view, be analysed in detail in future ecb reports. the single interest rate is too restrictive for some euro countries and too expansive for others. the european monetary policy, which is aimed at monetary stability, and the national economic, fiscal and social policies which compete with it are a perfect match.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this debate takes place in difficult economic times. growth is falling, inflation is rising. the federal republic of germany, which accounts for one third of euroland, is the backlight in terms of growth, inflation and net new debt. it is no longer the locomotive as it once was, but it is the last carriage on this train. in these difficult times, the first thing that matters is that the european central bank, which is a young central bank, should gain credibility. the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and i am sure that the commission will make a number of proposals in the future. the first proposal was that economic decisions should be guided primarily by core inflation, that is, a rate of inflation where energy and food are excluded. if you did that, you would be making a good case for the situation, because what is hitting the citizens is not core inflation, but inflation including energy and food prices. the second proposal which we will reject is the setting of inflation targets. i believe that the european central bank was right to define stability itself shortly after it was set up, as monetary stability being a rate of inflation of less than 2%. that cannot be changed now. the european central bank must be measured against its own standards, especially in the present difficult situation. that is why we cannot agree to this second proposal. the third concerns the applicant countries. the proposal that the maastricht treaty criteria for inflation, the maastricht treaty criteria in general, should not be applied in the same way to the applicant countries - that would also be a weakening of stability - will not be accepted by my group either.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to take this opportunity to say a few basic things about the commission's draft directive. we have had enough of exchanges, disputes and agreements over the last few days, weeks and months on technical details. i would like to address the commission and the council representatives in particular. i would like to say a few words to the commission in particular about the history and development of this directive. i have had the opportunity, as rapporteur for the resolution, to look at both the green paper and the commission's communication on the results of the consultation. while in the green paper you spoke of supplementary pension provision in the internal market and wanted to make european citizens believe that something was being done for the broad mass of european citizens, your current draft directive is only a reflection of the interests of the european financial industries. i think that either you have made a turnaround here, or you have been concerned from the outset with the internal financial market. their intention today is to bring the financial market to the fore. you're taking this to a place where it's never been before. this would be perfectly fine in and of itself if it were really just a financial market directive. but your proposal is a major step in the product design of the current occupational pension scheme and i think it gives the investment industry a significant competitive advantage over traditional providers by providing the same tax treatment for financial products without requiring the financial industry to provide the same guarantees as the second pillar institutions which receive the guarantees, namely tax advantages. i am not revealing any secrets or revealing any secrets when i say that we have all received the position papers and the wording proposals from the financial industry, particularly the investment industry. the commission's proposal is not a mere technical proposal, but a proposal to make the european parliament more aware of the need to protect the environment. the resemblance to the financial sector is very worrying to me. i should also like to take this opportunity to briefly outline our guiding principles which have guided our action in the karas report over the past few months. the safety of the company's pension is our first priority. we have a responsibility here to create something that, at the end of the day, must work and benefit the citizen. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. does the institution have to be approved, audited by the authorities before it can operate, or is it simply registered? mr karas has put forward a new proposal which we shall support. we also want to see the collective nature of the second pillar. this will create a demarcation with regard to the third pillar. we are not talking about a savings product, but about company pensions, and this is a completely different matter from speculating in stock packages. it was also important for us to improve the participation of the public. we agree, however, with the reference to national labour law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the future. we have made a major turnaround here, but i think it is in the interests of all that we can support this directive or this proposal from him. in addition to these substantive points, other considerations were also important to us. we should not be put off by technocrats who tell us that this is not possible and is not compatible with the treaties. we are co-decision-makers here and can act as we think for the time being. we are elected to make our position known as a corrective element. european citizens expect us to ensure that law is not only made by officials and lobbyists, but that political decisions are primarily made by parliament. we should not be caught by the argument that a hundred amendments are not negotiable with the council. i say very clearly to the council and the commission: do not shake this directive any more! we have had some major differences with this report. the debate was not only between the groups but also within the groups. we shall vote tomorrow on a text which seeks to do justice to all trends. i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr karas, for his work. if the vote goes as we have discussed, i shall recommend to my group that we approve your report.
commission. - mr president, i will try to answer mr posselt in some detail. first of all, i would point out that the commission is not responsible for the introduction of coins and banknotes. as he knows, banknotes are the responsibility of the central bank and the central banking system, and as far as currencies are concerned, the national authorities are responsible. however, as regards the changeover process, a distinction must be made between activities within the euro area and those outside it. in the euro area it is the central banks and the money factories, or the finance ministries, that have decided the exchange rate plans. outside the euro area, it is basically seen as a commercial activity and left to the market. this means that national banks are not, therefore, involved in the logistics and existing means of distributing the new currency or repatriating the old currency, and must maintain the systems they have traditionally used for these types of operations. however, it is true that there is a concern in the european central bank and in some national banks, specifically in the german central bank, as a result of the enormous amount of deutsche mark abroad to take any action to support this changeover situation in countries outside the euro area. in this connection, the european central bank decided on 14 december to allow the frontloading or pre-feeding in euro of those financial institutions which are branches or subsidiaries of european banks in countries outside the euro area. obviously, if the central bank is working on the possibility of pre-feeding, the first step has been taken so that this type of financial institution can go ahead with the subsequent process of currency exchange. in the former yugoslavia there are three distinct cases: bosnia herzegovina, kosovo and montenegro. in the case of bosnia herzegovina, we are talking about a currency board with a national currency linked to the framework with an exchange rate of 1 to 1. it is true, however, that this currency is specific to bosnia-herzegovina and will not undergo any change in itself. it will no longer have a relationship with the framework, but a fixed relationship with the euro and will be approximately half of the euro, which is the same framework-euro relationship. as far as kosovo is concerned, there is a significant possession of physical currency. it is an economy where currency circulation is based on notes that are not normally from the zone and, especially, from the framework zone. the yugoslav dinar still has legal tender status, but it is also true that the mark is in circulation and has been recognised as a currency that can function, and obviously the circulation of the euro will not change this situation. there is a specific problem of how to change these frames which are circulating on euro coins and banknotes. i have been informed that the german central bank, which was aware of this operation at the time, is considering what solution to adopt in such situations. the problem in montenegro is similar. in november 1999 it decided unilaterally to establish a dual currency system between the framework and a parallel currency; on 1 december the government of montenegro declared the framework the only legal currency in the territory of the republic and, as in kosovo, the commission has no capacity to act and, in our opinion, it will also be up to the german central bank of the federal republic to take the relevant decisions to make other operations than frontloading which, as i said before, will be made with branches or subsidiaries of european banks working in that area.
i'm not going to tell you. thank you very much for your very good and detailed answer. i just want to ask a question in the meantime. just today there were major reports in the german press that the applicant countries are allegedly planning to circumvent the euro criteria by introducing the euro unilaterally, so to speak. i think it is a little unlikely, but i would like to ask you whether these considerations are being made and whether the commission is dealing with this issue in the applicant countries.
- the next item is the report (a5-0220/2001) by mr karas, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the activities of institutions for occupational retirement provision (com (2000) 507 - c5-0596/2000 - 2000/0260 (cod)).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr karas said here this morning that there would be a large majority. i will not be part of that majority. i believe that the commission's proposal and the report will continue a very fundamental paradigm shift in the european pension and social security systems as a whole, away from solidary statutory systems towards private capital-based systems. my criticism is directed mainly at two questions. firstly, should the occupational pension systems in the eu be subjected to community-wide competition? i have certainly learned a great deal about competition and its opportunities over the last decade, but no one will convince me that a fundamental issue such as social security for the elderly should be subjected to competition. there are three specific problems with this, namely, firstly, that there are no binding rules on the security of the amounts paid, secondly, that the supervisory arrangements are inadequate in my view, and thirdly, that your report, mr karas, also provides for the possibility of paying the occupational pension in the form of a lump sum. that means huge risks in old age. the second major problem is this one-sided orientation towards the financial markets. i think that's all that's been said here. i think that this is also more about the present and future of the european capital market than about the future of pensions. the scope for preserving and modernising solidary statutory pension systems is not exhausted in any member state of the european union. what we really need is european coordination of occupational pension schemes, as is already the case with statutory pension schemes. this has not been resolved.
- thank you very much, commissioner, i always admire the care with which you explain in detail to parliament why the commission cannot accept certain things. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
- the following reports are requested for joint debate: - a5-0211/2001 by mr ettl, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 79/267/eec as regards the solvency margin requirement for life assurance undertakings (com (2000) 617 - c5-0557/2000 - 2000/0249 (cod)); - a5-0212/2001 by mr ettl, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 73/239/eec as regards the solvency margin requirement for non-life insurance undertakings (com (2000) 634 - c5-0558/2000 - 2000/0251 (cod))
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0227/2001), on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of electricity produced from renewable energy sources in the internal electricity market (doc.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as the president has just said, we are now in the second reading of the proposal for a directive on the promotion of electricity from renewable sources. there is a legitimate hope that the first european law on renewable energy will soon be in force. this european law will help to increase the share of electricity from renewable energy sources. i am convinced of that. it will help us, the eu, to achieve our self-imposed target of doubling our emissions by 2010. this law will make an important contribution to the investment in electricity production from wind, solar, water, biomass. the eu will then demonstrate that it is ready to meet its responsibilities for climate protection and sustainable energy supply. i would not have made these statements a few weeks ago, because the council's common position differed in essential respects from parliament's position and the council initially showed little willingness to act. but tomorrow you will have the result of an intensive and productive negotiation process for your vote. ten compromises reached with the council in an informal conciliation on amendments nos 1 to 11, but without proposals nos 2 and 4. it is documented here that the council and parliament have really come together. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the shadow rapporteurs from the other groups, in particular mrs ayuso gonzález and mr claude turmes, who have supported this process with their time and energy, their willingness to fight and compromise. i would like to thank the swedish presidency for its successful efforts to bring the council closer to parliament's position. i would like to thank the commission staff responsible for the negotiations, who played a very important role in facilitating the process. as with compromises, you may be satisfied with the result, but not overjoyed. i regret that we have not been able to set binding national targets. more importantly, i think the current definition of renewable energy is simply wrong. to facilitate the achievement of the targets, individual member states have insisted on including the biomass share of household waste in mixed incineration. this not only undermines the european objective of waste prevention and treatment, but also sends the wrong signal against the development of genuine renewable energies. i would ask you to accept the compromise with the council. the amendment passed by parliament will make the law a significant contribution to the development of renewable energy sources. secondly, the conciliation procedure would have been unreachable. i'm sure you will. now, to the important positive results. firstly, member states must orient their support measures towards indicative national objectives. if it becomes clear that the overall eu target of doubling cannot be achieved, the commission may make proposals for legally binding targets. secondly, the commission must assess in a report, which is to precede a proposal for a harmonised system, the success of the national systems in increasing the market share of electricity from renewable energy sources. thirdly, once a common system has been introduced, the protection of the trust must be guaranteed for investments made previously. fourthly, access to the grid for electricity from renewable sources is guaranteed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted. we have a huge renewable energy potential in europe. let us use it in a way that reflects our responsibility for sustainable development. (applause from the centre)
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0226/2001) by mrs flesch, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council (com (2000) 407 - c5-0715/2000 - 2000/0328 (cod)) on the implementation of the 'eu' first level domain.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would also like to begin by extending my warmest congratulations to the rapporteur for the committee on industry, trade, research and energy, mrs flesch, on her excellent report. you have really succeeded, mrs flesch, in taking up essential aspects of the dot.eu issue in your report and in setting the right course for parliament. we are building the european house virtually with this regulation. the dot.eu top level domain will help us to better represent our european identity on the internet. there are many advantages to this. the european union is promoting e-commerce. the eu domain will help consumers to recognise the online business's place in the internal market and to develop greater trust in it. so far, european companies - mr martin has pointed out - are sometimes mistaken for us companies with dot.com domains, not european companies. european companies, organisations and individuals will be able to access new, concise addresses that have long been occupied by the established domains. for example, there are already well over 10 million dot.com domains in the eu. the council has just voted in favour of the introduction of the dot.eu top level domain, and by adopting the regulation before the summer break we will help to ensure that the first dot.eu addresses can be registered in spring 2002. i can therefore only ask you to give your consent to this project, especially at a time when over 90% of the most visited websites are located in the usa and approximately 70% of e-business is conducted in the usa.
commission. – the proposal to set up the ‘.eu’ top-level domain was first tabled by the commission last december after public consultation over the whole year. in internet terms, it is a lifetime. european internet users are becoming increasingly impatient to have a ‘.eu’ top-level domain where they can register pan-european names. it is becoming imperative, therefore, that the eu takes the necessary steps to implement ‘.eu’ as soon as possible. in this respect, i am pleased to note the common orientation agreed last week in the council, which was a major step forward. with regard to parliament, i would particularly like to thank mrs flesch and mrs mccarthy for their contributions as rapporteurs. their work has contributed significantly to a situation where we are very close to an agreement between the institutions, which would enable implementation of the ‘.eu’ top-level domain soon. i am extremely happy about the high quality discussion we have here today in this plenary. as far as the amendments are concerned, the rapporteurs in particular have proposed a number of amendments, which will significantly improve the text of the regulation. this includes reinforcement of the key principles of internet management, clarification of conformity with the community data protection rules, and more precise definitions relating to the role and the functions of the registry. the commission also welcomes the support given by the rapporteurs to the commission's proposals for an advisory committee. there are also a number of proposed amendments which the commission can accept in principle, subject to further clarification. these include the proposal that the commission would be authorised to levy a management charge on the registry for services provided. if the intention is to ensure that the registry remains cost-neutral to the commission, this is acceptable, although the commission would welcome a clearer reference to avoid any suggestion that a standing charge of any sort is imposed on the registry. with respect to the proposals for a policy advisory board to the registry, the commission agrees that broad consultation with the european internet community will be a prerequisite for the proper functioning of the registry. at the same time, it will be important to clarify how such a body would interact with the commission and the member states committee. the 'first-come-first-served' approach for registrations is supported by the commission, as it is one of the underlying principles for the registration process proposed by the commission. we would, however, point out that this general principle must be subject to the rules and principles adopted as public policies in relation to the registration of the ‘.eu’, just to avoid the problems which have been mentioned by a few speakers tonight. similarly, the commission has no objections to the requirement for registrants to respect a code of conduct, although care needs to be taken to avoid confusion and any suggestion of a priori controls. mr carraro also made comments which i endorse. the commission is fully committed to transparency principles and supports the publication of a call for expression of interest in the official journal, as was also mentioned by mr martin. however, the procedure of publication of the conditions of implementation of the registry and of the policy framework in the official journal may prove a very cumbersome procedure and alternative publication may be more efficient. why not this time a website? when talking about ‘.eu’; why not go to the public on the website? there are however, some proposed amendments which the commission cannot agree with. in relation to the proposed amendments on the preventive measures to be adopted by the member states on the geographical and geo-political basis, i would like to point out that should the member states impose individually such measures to the registry, this could lead to conflicting measures or various incompatible approaches. the issue of geographical and geopolitical names is, however, an important political issue for some member states and is fully recognised by the commission. i am convinced that the compromise which was reached at the council, introducing a new paragraph for article 4.1a may offer an alternative which parliament may wish to consider further. the proposal to require the registry to ensure that companies registering a name are legally established in the community is also problematic. given the automated nature of the registry process, it is not practical for the registry to carry out a priori checks on registrants. apart from questions of technical feasibility, the commission would view such a requirement to be an excessive burden on the registry and an unnecessary barrier to registrants. the proposal that the registry should be obliged to supply information to third parties with a "legitimate interest" is also unacceptable as such to the commission. it is not clear exactly how such a provision could apply, and we suggest that the registry will, in any case, be subject to existing legal provisions for disclosure. there also seems to be a linguistic problem surrounding the concepts of "public policy" and "public order" in the french and english versions. here the commission must reiterate its position that the public authorities must only be involved in those areas of registry policy where matters of genuine interest to the public at large are involved and not in the day-to-day operational decisions of the registry. mr crowley raised the question about ‘.eu’ and i also received an e-mail at the end of june, talking about the creation of 'www.eu' and a welcome to use our services. of course, it was slightly embarrassing, but we must make it clear that, after verification, we are aware of the existence of so-called alternate routes outside the domain-named system; top level domains coordinated by icann and of the recent introduction of the alternative route www.eu by the organisation called 'the universal registry'. the future ‘.eu’ top-level domain will, however, operate within the icann-approved named system, partly because of the need to ensure that most eu users can access addresses under ‘.eu’, but also because the commission supports the principle of a single authoritative rule for the domain-named system. alternate rules operate quite legally within the internet, but have relatively limited visibility and can be difficult to access, because the majority of browsers, quite naturally, point at names servers related to icann-authorised top-level domains. to mr cappato, the commission has just accepted a communication on e-commission and that is a big challenge to guarantee that all the activities of the commission will be online, that we will be able to give access to all citizens, but also in the medium and long-term, to interact with our partners and citizens. of the 40 amendments proposed by the rapporteurs the commission can accept in full amendments nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 16, 17, 19, 21, 22, 25, 26, 28, 31, 35, 38, 39 and 40. the commission can accept, in part or in principle amendments nos 9, 13, 14, 18, 20, 29, 30, 32 and 36. mr van velzen mentioned amendment no 34. there are positive elements here but for particular reasons of revocation the commission included that in the amendments which the commission cannot accept, which are amendments nos 6, 15, 23, 24, 27, 33, 34 and 37. in conclusion, given 40 amendments of which the commission can accept 32 in full, in part or in principle, these amendments indicate that parliament and the commission are clearly pursuing a common objective to ensure that the ‘.eu’ top level domain will soon be a successful registry.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0232/2001) by mrs niebler, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision (com (2000) 407 - c5-0449/2000 - 2000/0187 (cod)) on a regulatory framework for electricity spectrum policy in the european community.
the committee on budgets i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i would like to begin by thanking all of you for your support of my report. we have had a very intensive and fruitful debate on the subject of frequency policy in the committee on industry, and i have received good amendments not only from my colleagues in the committee on industry but also from my colleagues in the committee on transport and the committee on culture, which i was happy to include in my report. the amendments were finally incorporated very well in a compromise which was adopted in committee by 49 votes to 50, with one abstention. the subject of my report is the commission proposal for a decision on a legal framework for radio spectrum policy in the european community. the main aim is to determine which institutions are to take decisions on radio spectrum policy and by what procedure. the proposal expressly does not lay down any substantive requirements for the allocation of frequencies, i.e. it does not specify whether certain frequency bands should be made available for telecommunications, broadcasting, transport or the military, but is limited to institutional and procedural matters. the objective and purpose of the directive is to provide a reliable legal framework on the basis of which harmonisation of spectrum use, allocation procedures and conditions of use are decided at eu level whenever the implementation of union policy objectives requires frequencies. there are two types of questions. the first is to make political and strategic decisions. these policies must then be implemented. in this respect, they are technical implementation measures. we have already seen this distinction between political decisions on the one hand and technical implementation measures on the other hand in the lamfalussy report. the importance and scope of the proposal are evident from several points of view. the use of spectrum is becoming more and more a limited economic asset and a major factor in employment, as its use is increasing rapidly. the allocation of portions of spectrum for uses such as communications, broadcasting, transport, police, military, earth observation, etc. is becoming increasingly complex. strategic decisions must be made to reconcile the needs of commercial users with those of non-commercial users. the value of spectrum has been demonstrated by the results of the umts licensing auctions carried out by member states last year for a narrowly limited part of the spectrum. for example, in germany, the companies were willing to pay 50 billion euros for the area to be used, and in the uk, the auction reportedly raised 38.5 billion euros. the allocation and assignment of frequencies to the different user groups and users must therefore, as is currently the case, be carried out in the most transparent and democratic way possible, whether at member state level, at european level within the framework of cept and now also at eu level when decisions are to be taken on community activities related to frequency. it is basically self-evident that decisions on radio spectrum policy are to be taken at european level by the european parliament and the council. it is usually the task of politicians and in particular of elected representatives to decide on a matter as important to society and the economy as radio spectrum policy. the commission may be entrusted with the practical implementation of these decisions, i.e. with technical implementation. the commission should also be able to draw on the expertise of the cept by requesting it to propose solutions to technical problems, where appropriate. the amendments agreed by 49 out of 50 members in the committee on industry provide for this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. these are amendments nos 22 and 23, which have been tabled in the plenary. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote in the council. the commission is to be the only body to consult the council on these matters. i cannot support that and therefore i can only urge you not to vote in favour of these amendments. i can, however, recommend the amendments tabled by the eldr group and my own group, which were tabled on legal grounds following a recommendation from the legal service. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture, youth, education, media and sport. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mrs niebler has handled a very difficult subject which i had to deal with for the committee on culture with great skill. no one will be able to deny that in the light of technological developments a new legal framework for radio spectrum policy makes sense. but there are certain principles to be observed, because while technology is neutral, its use is not. the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, whose unanimous opinion i represent here, has for example taken care to ensure that sufficient transmission capacity is available for matters of public interest. in other words, in addition to economic considerations, political, cultural and social aspects, as well as personal rights and consumer protection issues, must be taken into account. this is particularly true of broadcasting, which is an expression of cultural diversity, freedom of expression and pluralism and thus a major factor in the formation of opinion in the democratic process. this is all the more important as the proposal rightly emphasises the fact that radio spectrum is a scarce commodity and will remain so in the long term. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. in an open and competitive market for electronic communications networks and services, offers addressed to the general public must also be guaranteed a place. the committee on industry, trade, research and energy has not fully adopted this view of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport to the extent that we would have liked, but it is committed to the principle of freedom of expression, and this is a crucial reason why we can also agree to the report in its present form. it is also stressed elsewhere that the democratic, social and cultural interests associated with the use must be taken into account. member states must be expected to meet this requirement fully. this also applies to italy.
mr president, i would like to thank all three institutions. my colleague, mrs niebler, is not an institution, but she has acted almost like one. thank you very much for the report. but i would also like to thank the commission and the council. the council, because it has moved to a degree which we did not expect a while ago, the commission colleagues will certainly agree. i would also like to thank the commission for its persistence in pursuing a subject over the years, one on which we did not expect things to happen so quickly. however, i must also say to the commission that it has sometimes acted with a somewhat unnecessary severity, also in relation to the amendments tabled by parliament, and that it has perhaps not shown the appropriate institutional flexibility that would have been possible or that i would have expected from the commission. mrs niebler rightly pointed out that there is a considerable difference between technical measures and political-strategic decisions, and that in the field of political-strategic decisions the european parliament should indeed play a greater role than that envisaged in the report, that transparency is guaranteed and that democratic structures are actually established. this is all the more important in view of the fact that the council does not agree with the commission at all that the senior level group should be set up. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this respect, i would personally support the new proposal by mrs niebler, in which she proposes a so-called call back procedure to be introduced in the wake of lamfalussy. my group has tabled amendments. i hope that these amendments will find the support of the house. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we shall be taking up the council's proposal, in which the council proposes that in cases where it is desirable to go beyond technical measures, the commission should propose a legislative act to parliament and the council. i hope we will get support for this and i hope the commission can live with this amendment.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place on thursday. the next item is the report (doc. (the sitting was closed at 11.40 p.m.)
counsel. - madam president of the european parliament, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, it is my great honour to present to you the work programme of the new presidency. i am not speaking for the first time to the european parliament, madam president, because in 1987, as president of the budget council, i already presented the 1988 budget to the european parliament. compared to today, that was the prehistory of the budget. there was no financial perspective or berlin ceiling, and the drawing up of a european budget was at that time a purely manual task, often carried out at night. let me first express my gratitude to the swedish presidency. sweden had three priorities, in this case the three 'e's': employment, environment, enlargement, and significant progress has been made in each of these areas: a new impetus has been given to the lisbon process, a common strategy for sustainable development has been put on track and excellent work has been done in the area of enlargement of the union. however, the greatest step forward is undoubtedly in the field of the common foreign and security policy. as examples, i would like to mention the meetings with presidents putin and bush - where the fifteen spoke with one voice - the prominent role of javier solana in the balkan conflict, the joint action of the european union and the united states in the middle east. these, madam president, are all proofs that the european union is also recognised as a full partner at international level: when the european union speaks with one voice, it is listened to.
president of the commission. - madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure for me to begin working with the belgian presidency. mr prime minister, your work is at a particularly delicate time. we have entered the final stage of preparations for the introduction of euro banknotes and coins, the most concrete expression of european reality ever achieved. belgium knows that it can count on the cooperation of the commission and the european institutions to make this event, which can rightly be described as historic, a great success. we are also moving with determination towards enlargement of the union, as you, mr prime minister, said a few minutes ago. the accession negotiations have reached a very delicate point, with the most complex chapters currently being discussed. in the meantime, and precisely to prepare the union for enlargement, the member states are ratifying the treaty of nice. the recent referendum in the republic of ireland has, however, reminded us that ratification is not a foregone conclusion. but we shall deal with this more carefully later. mr prime minister, madam president, at the laeken summit we will review the progress made by the union in implementing its social agenda. its concrete and sustained implementation is essential if we are to succeed in making the european economy truly dynamic and competitive during this decade, and at the same time ensure that our social model remains anchored in the principles of justice and sustainability. i agree with the particular emphasis placed by the new presidency not only on the essential pursuit of full employment but also on the equally indispensable improvement of the quality of work. modernising pension and social security systems is also an important part of our social agenda. the commission adopted yesterday a communication proposing an integrated strategy at european level to tackle one of the most important challenges facing society today. we are also committed to fighting poverty and social exclusion. i am therefore pleased to see the belgian government, in its capacity as president, taking steps in this direction. i share in particular the basic concern which underlies this commitment: in europe, the gap between rich and poor is widening at an alarming rate. it is our duty to stop this trend. the european union must not be allowed to become a mere spectator, but must be a spectator of the world. the descent towards an increasingly divided society is not only seen in europe but also on a much wider scale, in relation to an entire continent, the african continent - to which you, mr prime minister, referred significantly in your speech - which has lost contact with the developing nations as well. we must do everything possible to stop this unfair development model and to give voice and rights to those who have neither voice nor rights. ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, the laeken summit and the laeken declarations are of crucial importance for another reason. laeken must decide how we will structure the second phase of the debate on the future of europe. this is a fundamental debate with serious consequences. i am particularly pleased that, unlike six months ago, it is now widely reported in all the media. finally, our fellow citizens, together with their governments, are beginning to realize how important these issues are to their future. mr prime minister, you recently said in a public speech that 'the union has become a jumble of institutions and instruments'. i have the unenviable privilege of sharing the same concern. if the analysis is accepted, the remedies must now be proposed and discussed openly and freely. no one should think that they can solve these problems behind closed doors. in my view, the only way to reform the institutions in an acceptable way is to set up a convention in laeken. the heads of state also spoke of a forum - i personally prefer the word convention - which brings together, on an equal footing, representatives of the governments of the member states and of the candidate countries - i repeat, also of the candidate countries - representatives of the national parliaments, of the european parliament and of the commission. this convention is the place to find the most appropriate solutions to europe's most serious problems. ladies and gentlemen, not only must the future of europe be firmly in the hands of its citizens, but they must understand the changes that need to be made. the irish 'no' in nice is telling us clearly, among other things, that we must bridge the gap between the institutions and the citizens. europeans want a union that responds to their new demands, which go far beyond the economic integration of the continent, which has now largely been achieved. they want a clear and comprehensible union - and that means we must simplify our procedures and our treaties - where the powers of the institutions are clearly identified and decisions are taken at the appropriate level. they want a union that ensures the quality of life and the kind of society they want. they want a union that is clearly accountable to them for the results of our policies and the proper use of resources. their calls for greater democratic control over the life of the union's institutions are fully justified. the convention will have to deal with this as well. the laeken declaration must therefore contain an ambitious and comprehensive agenda for this convention, setting out the method of work and the timetable. ladies and gentlemen, my recent position on the treaty of nice and the irish referendum has raised some concerns, including in this house. since the beginning of my mandate, i have always attached the utmost importance to the political and institutional relations between the commission and parliament. i am convinced that they must be based on a spirit of cooperation and openness. let me conclude by saying a few words about the ratification of the treaty of nice. a union of 25 or more member states cannot function with its current structures and decision-making methods. that is why, for the project which the present commission regards as its top priority, namely the enlargement of the union, i have always maintained that we must introduce, at a minimum, the institutional changes agreed so laboriously and laboriously in nice. it is important to remember that the enlargement problem is not just an internal european issue. we are playing our role as an ideal and political reference point for so much of the world in this decision. the candidate countries, for their part, are making a great effort - an unprecedented effort - to join the union. the union must therefore be able to welcome new members. this means reviewing our institutional system and our decision-making process. this is why the treaty of nice is necessary for enlargement, even though it is less than expected. i therefore reiterate - as i have said before you on several occasions - my hope that the treaty will be ratified by the end of next year, in full respect for the democratically expressed views of our fellow citizens. the irish people have recently expressed their views on this treaty. i do not want to go into the details of the debate which preceded, accompanied and followed the referendum. i will simply say that, especially after my visit to ireland, i am convinced that the union does not threaten national identities. on the contrary, our real strength is unity in diversity. after my visit to ireland, i can say with conviction that the irish people did not vote against enlargement. however, this 'no' - whose importance cannot be underestimated - raises a crucial question, which we cannot ignore: what if, despite our efforts, the nice treaty is not ratified? for some it was not easy to resist the temptation to say that the issue is not on the agenda. the commission's response to this would be irresponsible. enlargement must not be compromised. it is and will remain our main political objective. it is a historic project, the project to which i have attached my mandate as president of the commission, the project to which the gothenburg european council gave unanimous support. it is therefore my duty as president of the commission to anticipate the repercussions that the irish 'no' might have on the enlargement process. is it wise, ladies and gentlemen, to pretend that this problem does not exist? no, it's not a good one. in the past few days i have therefore taken up this duty, choosing the path of frankness, with a deliberate and conscious intervention. we all said that nice was necessary for enlargement. so we cannot give the impression that this process can succeed without the reforms we all wanted. i do not want to repeat the legal interpretations which confirm that enlargement could be initiated with minor adjustments to the treaties. the political focus is elsewhere, namely how to proceed with enlargement and accompany it with the deepening that nice itself has declared to be indispensable. ladies and gentlemen, the 'no' vote in nice would inevitably delay the enlargement process. in this case - which we want to avoid at all costs - we would have no choice but to bring forward the date of the next intergovernmental conference, in order to be true to our solemn commitments, relying also on the strength shown by this assembly in the fullness of its mandate. as you can see, the treaty of nice is already an integral part of the debate on the future of europe. our 'yes' to ratification is not therefore based on tactical considerations but on the need to ensure the political coherence of the union. the words you have spoken, mr prime minister, confirm to me that your presidency fully shares this analysis and shares the strategy which it implies. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! mr president-in-office, you have presented an ambitious programme. this programme can be supported by our group of the european people's party and the european democrats because you are a representative of community europe and not of the europe of intergovernmental cooperation - you did not say it directly but you expressed it in your speech. that is why we are on your side, because you are defending european law, democracy and the community procedure. (applause from the centre) you are thus in the tradition of your christian-democratic predecessors, wilfried martens and leo tindemans, who also made an outstanding contribution in the european parliament. we will have a single currency on 1 january 2002. the euro is a peaceful, revolutionary event, and we want to look forward to the single european currency. we have to defend this offensively. if the young generation of today can pay in a common currency throughout their lives, throughout their future, throughout europe, in all the countries of the european union and in some cases even beyond, then this too is a work of peace. let us not belittle the common currency, but let us defend it together in an offensive manner. mr president-in-office of the council, this also requires - and i have a request to make to you - that we pursue a policy of stability, that we combat inflation, that we reduce the public debt and that above all we make it possible to make it worthwhile to invest in europe. that is why it is not enough to relieve the tax burden on large companies, but we must relieve the tax burden on small and mediumsized enterprises, so that investment and willingness to work are possible and so that europe can get a real signal of economic growth. the european union is the most competitive continent in the world, and what you said in the council of heads of state and government is only meaningful if we encourage investment in europe. i ask you to identify the member states which do not adhere to these principles, because we need to succeed together in the economic centre of europe. (applause from the centre) you said laeken. the european parliament will be represented at the convention. the commission, the national governments are fighting for this - and we welcome this very much. it would be a credit to the stuttering franco-german engine if both countries were to work towards ensuring that the governments are also represented at a high level in this convention, for example by european ministers who have responsibilities in their national parliaments, are accountable to the national parliaments and thus also reach the national public. we call on national governments to send not only officials whom we hold in high esteem to this convention but politicians with a governmental mandate. (applause from the centre) thirdly, transparency. mr president-in-office, we were particularly pleased to hear you say that the council of ministers, where it acts as a legislative body, should become a real second chamber. we support this with all our strength. but we can take steps along this road already now, during your presidency, before laeken. if we know, for example, that the conciliation committee between parliament and the council has officials but not ministers, and there is an internal directive that the majority of those represented there should be ministers, then we ask you to ensure that the general secretariat of the council also has politicians, that there are ministers who are on a par with the european parliament in the european legislative process. (applause from the centre) you have spoken of the role of the high representative. our group has a high opinion of mr solana. but we share your view that the next reform must achieve that the function of the high commissioner is identical to the equivalent function in the commission and that this position must be located in the commission. we must also ensure - we will discuss this in the conference of group chairmen - that the high representative also comes to the european parliament at regular intervals to give an account of the european union's common foreign and security policy. (applause from the centre) let me just say this in closing, because i'm going to stick to my time frame. we note with appreciation that the belgian presidency will place particular emphasis on this, particularly because of its historic responsibility for africa. we support this. but we also say that we must of course concentrate our foreign policy efforts - and africa should not be left out - on the development of the balkans, on macedonia, on our contribution to peace. if it is necessary in the end for the europeans to act there jointly with security forces, then it is a sign of poverty if the north atlantic alliance tells us today that some member countries are not in a position to do so. we must not only talk about defence, but we must go beyond rhetoric and equip our armed forces materially so that they can make a real contribution to the maintenance of peace in europe. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. you are a founding member of the european union. belgium has already successfully held eleven presidencies. we wish belgium every success in its 12th presidency. we're on your side! (applause from the centre)
mr president, what we have just heard is unprecedented in the history of the european parliament, to which i have belonged since the first direct elections in 1979. the belgian prime minister and president of the council are not members of my party. but i say to you, mr president, that what you are offering us now deserves the most critical judgment of you and your friends! it is intolerable to have such a debate here in the european parliament! it is not the european parliament that is responsible for this. (applause from the centre) the president of the council has our full support when it comes to defending democracy and the rule of law in europe! (applause from the centre)
chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. - mr president, thank you for the warm welcome. mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! the belgian presidency is a presidency of decisive importance. i think that there has rarely been a presidency that has been able to take up its work in such a difficult and full of opportunities situation. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union. the link between the two must also be established. this means that president prodi is being reminded of an important point, namely that after the irish vote we must also maintain an option for how enlargement can be implemented without nice, without delaying enlargement. this must be maintained as an option so that we do not have any uncertainty in these areas among the applicant countries. i am very pleased, mr president-in-office, that with your proposal for a convention, or whatever you want to call it, you have created a condition, and you will certainly enforce it in laeken, for the european union to find a new method that will take us out of the routine of previous intergovernmental conferences. this convention politicizes the preparations for the intergovernmental conference, and this is what is causing us to look for solutions, for a way to have a treaty that the citizens understand, a treaty in which the responsibilities are clear to the citizens, so that punishments and rewards can be pronounced by the citizens, and above all that we will have a decision-making union with 27 member states. i am particularly pleased that you have mentioned the council, which must act as a legislator, as a second chamber, and in public, in order to achieve a real public interaction in decision-making. at the same time, it is important for this presidency, in view of what is happening in macedonia, that we move away from the 'too late, too little' approach in the field of foreign, security and defence policy and finally make decisions in such a way that we do not get involved in such military conflicts again. (applause from the centre)
chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. - mr president, i have to go. the ambitious design of the belgian presidency for this presidency gives us hope that concrete, firm steps towards an even more successful future for europe can be combined with visions. i believe that the citizens of europe not only want concrete solutions, but also want to know where we want to go in the european union. this will also be reflected in economic policy. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals, and i would like to thank the commission for the work it has done in this area. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. at a time when one negative forecast for the development of the european union is chasing the other, it would be important for the belgian presidency of the council to try to set the tone with a calm hand so that we can actually bring about a good result with the ambitious bundling and coordination of policies in the field of economic, employment and social policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is also true of taxation policy, mr president, because there is unfair competition within the european union. i am betting on the belgian presidency. one last thing to conclude: you must also lead this eurozone in the dual presidency on 1 january 2002. we all know that we still have a lack of knowledge, a lack of acceptance. as the belgian presidency of the council, together with all your colleagues, make the introduction of the euro a real priority, not just by distributing leaflets but also by taking confidence-building measures, so that the euro is actually accompanied by confidence and credibility from the virtual monetary union into reality.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr president-in-office, you have announced an ambitious programme, and the ambition of your project is in keeping with the challenges we are facing. so i want to wish you, at the end of this debate, that you will live up to your own ambition, that you will succeed. i wish you, on behalf of the cdu/csu group in this parliament, a great presidency of the council. you're going to need our support, and you should have it. you were right to say at the outset that you wanted to reconcile the citizens with europe. that has been said many times. the reasons for the loss of confidence in europe, which was present before, and which has been brought to the fore by the irish referendum, are many and have been mentioned. it should be noted, however, that the way in which the major council members have dealt with a country like austria has also played a part. perhaps your foreign minister has an opportunity to make up for some of the damage to trust that has been done in austria. the method of the igc has survived because decisions of the magnitude of those taken in the case of treaty amendments can no longer be taken in the council chambers in the dark of night, but because we need a period of public debate beforehand. we therefore call for the establishment of a convention-like assembly to organise a public dialogue in europe before the council takes a decision. above all, we need your support. the council has already taken a number of important decisions, including the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the adoption of the treaty of rome, the treaty of rome, the treaty of rome, the treaty of rome, the treaty of rome, the treaty of rome, the treaty of rome, and the treaty of rome. that is how you are measured and we wish you every success in your work for the interests of europe. (applause from the centre)
the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. i would also like to thank the president of the commission, mr romano prodi, for his words. i would like to make four comments on the various statements. first and foremost, the outcome of the irish referendum and the suggestions to use the irish referendum to say that we actually need less europe. that should be the outcome of this irish referendum, if we would at least take that into account. now, i think that's a reductionist view. there is indeed a democratic deficit in europe, but that democratic deficit is not solved by creating less europe, but by creating more democracy in europe. (applause) i think that's certainly not an arrogant attitude. i have always, including at the council meeting in gothenburg, advocated that we should not take an arrogant attitude towards the irish voters by saying: "there's no problem, we're not complaining and we're just going on as if nothing's wrong". no, we have to take that "no" seriously and take it into account, do something about it. but it is an unacceptable solution to draw the conclusion from the irish 'no' that we must go backwards with the european union. my second point concerns the convention. i agree with the various speakers that the governments must also be represented at a high level, because it would be a mistake to leave the governments out and to have them represented only at a low level, with the result that there could be a short circuit between the outcome of the convention and the intergovernmental conference which will be held in the normal way in 2004. i also think we should ensure that the constitutional regions are involved in the whole process.
the european union has been following with great attention and concern the developments in the crisis in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia since its inception. it has also played a very active role in finding a peaceful solution to this conflict. the high representative for the cfsp, javier solana, made several visits to the country from april onwards and met with the political authorities and representatives of the main ethnic groups in skopje and elsewhere to assess the situation and to encourage a political solution to the crisis. in april, a troika of eu ministers, including ms lindh, mr patten and mrs neyts, also visited skopje. on 10 april 2001, the european union and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia signed a stabilisation and association agreement in luxembourg, the first between the european union and a balkan country. this signature has helped to give the union an essential and unavoidable role in finding a solution to the crisis. it also gave us an instrument to put pressure on the parties in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. since the first demonstrations, the european union has strongly condemned the violence perpetrated by ethnic albanian extremists and called on them to put an end to it immediately, to lay down their arms and to withdraw. the union also strongly urged the skopje authorities to exercise restraint in the military response to the rebels' provocations and stressed the need to continue the inter-ethnic dialogue with a view to implementing the urgent and indispensable reforms to resolve the conflict, in particular reforms relating to the law and the protection of minorities. this should also help to isolate the extremists by clearly opening up prospects of hope for all the populations concerned. in this spirit, the european union and the high representative welcomed the agreement reached on 11 may on the formation of a broad coalition government including the leaders of the main democratically elected slav and albanian political parties. it called on them to intensify their efforts to produce rapidly concrete and substantial results on the main issues under discussion. at the european council in gothenburg, the heads of state and government of the european union reaffirmed the need for a peaceful solution to the crisis. this implies, for the political side, the opening of a genuine political dialogue within the coalition of governments on all the issues under discussion, including constitutional reforms. the european council called on the local political forces to produce results as soon as possible. the deadline is the general affairs council on 27 june. on the security front, the european council condemned in very clear terms extremism and the use of violence. he stressed the imperative of reaching a durable ceasefire agreed by the parties, which could require a minimum of direct or indirect contacts between them. in this respect, the european union and nato have a possible role to play as intermediaries or facilitators. the disarmament plan proposed by president trajkovski is the other pillar of the security component. it gives nato a central role in this process, as its possible presence and that of eu observers on the ground are considered by the parties as an essential element of confidence. nato has already made the necessary arrangements to be able to respond. this intervention to disarm the albanian-speaking rebels is, however, subject to specific security conditions which, so far, have not been met by the parties. the conclusion of a lasting ceasefire on the basis of a political agreement to develop a negotiated solution to the crisis is the key element. in this respect, it should be noted that since the beginning of the crisis the european union has maintained close coordination with nato, which takes the form of regular and frequent joint meetings of the atlantic council and the political and security committee, regular liaison between secretariats, and direct contacts between high representative solana and the secretary-general of nato, lord robertson. the two officials also made joint visits to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, during which a consistent and unambiguous message from the international community was conveyed to the parties. in order to ensure a permanent european union policy in skopje, the european council in gothenburg agreed to the appointment of a special representative of the union in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the general affairs council of 25 june appointed the former french defence minister, françois léotard, who has been in skopje since thursday 28 june, to this post. mr léotard's mandate includes firstly the establishment and maintenance of contacts with the government of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and with the parties concerned in the political process. it also provides for the european union to provide advice and support to the ongoing dialogue, close liaison with the representative of the presidency and the commission on the ground, with the heads of mission of the member states and with the european observers. it also provides for establishing and maintaining contacts with other relevant international and regional actors, including nato, the osce and the united nations, with a view of course to ensuring the necessary coordination. it also plans to contribute, where appropriate, to the implementation of any agreements and to follow closely all developments and initiatives in the field of safety in liaison with the competent bodies. the way forward for the belgian presidency has therefore been clearly marked by the decisions and approach adopted by the european union in recent months, by the use of the instruments mentioned, by the considerable commitment of the high representative solana, and by the action taken on the spot by mr léotard. the european union is demonstrating its active commitment to this crisis. this effort to contribute to rapid and tangible progress is also being made in cooperation with other relevant actors, notably the us envoy, mr pardew, and with the international organisations involved on the ground. the new presidency must now continue and encourage the political dialogue in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia with consistency and determination. in this connection, it is to be welcomed that, under the auspices of president trajkovski, an agreement was reached last night to relaunch political dialogue between the political parties of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. following this agreement, intensive meetings are planned over the next few days. the commission will be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. at the same time, and in close coordination with nato, the security component will be pursued with the same determination, as the two aspects of the crisis are inseparable and will have to progress in parallel.
commission. – mr president, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia remains, as the minister has just said, a matter of intense concern to all of us. in the three months since i last discussed this matter with honourable members, there has been a steady deterioration in the security situation, a growing polarisation of political opinion and an exponential rise in the number of refugees and internally displaced persons. the violence in front of the parliament in skopje just over a week ago, without exaggeration, brought matters to the very brink of the abyss. it is welcome that in the last week there has not been a further serious deterioration in the security situation, and it is welcome, as minister michel has just said, that the political dialogue pioneered by president trajkovski has been resumed. i want to pay tribute to the president’s efforts, i want to pay tribute to the president’s calm decency in the face of this crisis. as honourable members will know, the european union has been intensively involved, from the outset, in efforts to contain and extinguish this conflict. all of us who have some responsibility for this region are acutely conscious of the danger that a descent into civil war in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia would pose, not just for the community there, that would be bad enough, but for the region as a whole. working with nato, working with the osce, working with the united states, we will leave no stone unturned in the search for an end to this conflict and an agreed way forward based on dialogue and political settlement. one feature of this crisis, has been the very close cooperation between the relevant international organisations and bodies involved, not drawn from any manual or textbook, but because we know how vital it is that we tackle this problem in a united and coherent fashion. we have not yet succeeded in bringing the conflict to an end, but we are absolutely clear that it is only by working together and working with the democratically elected government in skopje that we will succeed in doing so. the leading role on behalf of the european has, of course, rightly been taken by my friend and colleague, high representative javier solana. he has been to skopje on countless occasions and i have accompanied him on a number of those visits as well as making visits on my own. he has worked, and is working, tirelessly for a peaceful solution, ably supported on the ground in skopje by the outgoing presidency ambassador, mark dickinson, and by the head of the commission delegation, josé pinto texeira. i want to pay a particularly warm tribute to him for his courage and steadfastness and wise advice. a week ago, as the minister has said, the general affairs council appointed mr léotard as the european union’s resident envoy, in skopje, under the authority of mr solana. i met mr léotard last week and promised him the full support of the european commission in his work. we stand ready to do all we can, anywhere and at any time. mr léotard is initially locating himself in the commission’s delegation office in skopje. as honourable members know, in april the former yugoslav republic of macedonia signed a stabilisation and association agreement with the european union. that agreement includes important commitments by the government in skopje about respect for human rights, including the rights of minorities. it is essential that those commitments should be honoured, and we all want to see early results in the inter-ethnic dialogue. that is the only route to a lasting political solution. the european commission is providing very substantial support, eur 42 million under cards in 2001. much of it will specifically help with the implementation of projects which will assist the albanian as well as the macedonian slav community. for example, the eur 5 million we have delivered for the south-east europe albanian language university at tetovo, funds for the census and funds for local government reform and the implementation of small-scale local infrastructure projects, which make a visible difference to people’s lives and communities. we have made it very clear, and i want to repeat this point today, that we will be ready to come forward with substantial assistance for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia as soon as a political agreement is reached between the parties. i hope that all involved will regard that as a serious incentive to work intensively and constructively with mr léotard and mr pardew, the united states representative, in the coming days. let it also be an incentive to extend the cease-fire and to halt the military activities on both sides which are costing so much politically, financially and in human lives. i just want to underline this point. this parliament would not take kindly to proposals from the commission, or from anyone, to spend more money supporting reconstruction and development, supporting the budget in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, if at the same time money was being spent, which frankly no one really has, on more bombs and more rockets, and if there was not a clear prospect of a political settlement and continuing cease-fire. when the foreign minister of fyrom reports to the political and security committee of the council in brussels on friday, she will be in a position to speak about substantial progress, because the alternative is frankly too awful to contemplate. it is not too late to avoid catastrophe, but it requires the courage of every citizen of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to pull back from the brink. it requires those with influence in kosovo over the rebels to pull them back from the brink and it requires the continued stand for moderation exemplified by the government in tirana to whom i pay unreserved tribute for their contribution. there cannot be a solely military solution. there has to be a political settlement and it cannot come soon enough.
- mr president, mr president of the council, mr commissioner! we welcome léotard's appointment and also badinter's interference in the affairs of macedonia. i believe that these are two representatives of the european community who can do good there. but i also want to remember, as commissioner patten did, that the eu delegation has been a real blessing for the country for many years and has always been a mediator. we need a permanent presence on the ground, not because we want something like a protectorate, but because we want to manifest our interest in the preservation of the macedonian state. you need a go-between, and i think we found one. but i think we cannot ignore the fact that it might also be good if nato presence could be seen in macedonia preventively. the fact that we are now linking our financial commitment to the conditions of peace on the ground is not interference in internal affairs, as is described in the region. we cannot spend our taxpayers' money in the long term in a country where the will to peace is not backed up by joint action for peace. we cannot, for example, build roads and infrastructure while government troops and rebels buy weapons. i stress: the kla brought the unrest into the country, there's no doubt about that. the government must now, however, in order to avoid civil war, not give in to the kla's demands but must take account of the longstanding demands of the elected albanians in macedonia and seek solutions with them. but i do not think that these solutions can be found in the division of the country along ethnic lines. macedonia is the country of all its citizens, and this must also be written into the constitution. the right of veto, whatever it may be, must not be granted to any group of the population that is divided. the president of the country is the president of all the citizens of macedonia and an albanian vice-president with veto power would therefore be an unfair demand on the albanian side. the use of the mother tongue must be possible for every citizen. the decentralisation of power and the strengthening of towns and local authorities as planned for a long time must finally be implemented. but the decentralisation of the army and the police, as the albanians are now calling for, cannot strengthen the cohesion of the country, on the contrary. the will to peace must be backed up by moderate and legitimate demands. the european union must take care of reform and reconciliation in its neighbourhood, which means that we cannot stand by and watch a civil war brewing in macedonia. the kla rebels were transported from skopje to north macedonia in air-conditioned buses with their weapons. can you imagine what that's done to our image of the mission in this country? it has done us a great deal of harm and has misrepresented us as partisans of the albanians. the situation in macedonia makes it abundantly clear that we must finally agree on a common approach to the balkans, because only a common strategy with kosovo can solve this problem. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner patten, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by expressing my satisfaction and my congratulations to the high representative of the cfsp and commissioner patten, because i think that in trying to resolve this conflict we are showing the first profiles of our cfsp. mr patten spoke of the responsibility we have in the region. commissioner, i would like to go a step further and say what has been done wrong. in this particular case, i think two things have not happened, which are contained in resolution 1244. firstly, to disarm the kla in kosovo and secondly, to disband the kla in kosovo. neither has been done. on the contrary! the kla has been given structures it didn't have before. the sin has a name, because the representative of the un secretary-general - bernard kouchner is the man - failed to do so. we must say that here too. so we not only offer our good services in conflict resolution, but we are committed to correcting the mistakes we have made. i welcome the readiness of nato. the disarming of the kla terrorists allows me to call them what they are: terrorists and criminals, not rebels! these kla terrorists must be disarmed, and nato is offering to do so. i wonder why we should now send 3,000 additional troops under the known conditions, when we could have disarmed these criminals in kosovo and dismantled their organizations. in no case - and i fully agree with mrs pack and the other speakers - should nato, by its permanent presence, divide the country along ethnic lines and cement this division by its presence and goodwill. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. on a current occasion, we have all the visitor groups and we are delighted to have many eu citizens coming to us and taking part in plenary sessions, as here. but we also know that it is difficult to find a hotel for fifty visitors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources available to the community are used to the full. we want to see the citizens of the union and the members of parliament in close contact and face to face discussion. this is done, on the one hand, by visiting the european parliament and, on the other hand, by the member going to the hotel to meet the visitors and talking to them there. we are going as members of parliament to chile, to south africa... (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so if you support the rapporteur's view, you must vote against the report. (applause from the centre)
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. it is up to each president and each president to vote or not to vote. it's your choice. this result is quite clear. the report did not win a majority, and we should not doubt that result. that would be contrary to the effectiveness of the decision of this parliament. (applause from the centre)
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. mrs fontaine, i am addressing you personally. i am not one of those members who normally contributes much to your happy hours in this house, but today i would like to thank you specifically because i believe you have done two things. firstly, you gave mr mcmillan-scott the right answer. i congratulate you on that. (applause from the centre) secondly, you have had the case reviewed in the rules of procedure. you quoted the rules of procedure and thus removed all doubt, and then you recorded a closed vote with a 'no' vote. you did exactly what a serious working president should do. i want to thank you for that. (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? thank you for giving me the floor. i would like to make it clear, in order to avoid any irritation, that amendments nos 1 to 11, excluding amendments nos 2 and 4, are already compromises which have already been concluded with the council before the second reading - in the sense of an informal conciliation procedure. i would ask you very much to approve it because i believe that we have achieved a considerable improvement in the common position.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the decision taken today against a common eu transposition directive is regrettable. the rejection by parliament will leave the european capital market fragmented in a central area, trade in companies. future opportunities for prosperity can only be achieved through open markets and free trade. parliament has unfortunately deviated from this. i would have liked to have been in favour of a duty of neutrality on the part of the management board, because the interests of the owners do not always coincide with those of the executives. the suggestion that germany, for example, needs more protection against hostile takeovers because there are golden shares and majority voting shares in other countries reflects protectionist thinking. we cannot turn to protectionism because other countries are doing it. the european nation states will now, after this vote, protect their industrial and financial fillets, and this is a bad day for the single market and for the european site as a whole.
- madam president! - what is it? we have spoken about macedonia in this resolution, and i would just like to say that i think it is good that the european union is very much involved in macedonia, but we should not do this as a master teacher, but we should do it with respect for the people and the peoples there. macedonia has an all-party government, in which all nations are represented. it has a pro-european prime minister and a great pro-european president. if we are constantly talking about minority rights, then we must realize that the european minority standards we are constantly talking about do not exist in the eu itself. so we should really approach the matter with a certain humility, offering our good services but not always acting as a master teacher. we should above all strengthen the government by making it clear that those who cooperate with the european union, as macedonia does, receive our massive political and material support. that is why i regretted that commissioner patten, who is sadly no longer here, said that if money from us went there, it would be used for bombs. that was a very strange statement to make to this democratically elected all-party government, and i hope that soon our macedonian friends will pay us a visit in strasbourg in the form of their president, so that the visit of boris trajkovski can be made up. we must act against the phenomena of decay, but we can only do this by strengthening the democratic authorities.
- mr president, i would have welcomed if my speaking time had been superfluous at this stage, because i assumed that you would make a statement at the beginning of the sitting on how you see the difficult situation. i only signed up because others have signed up and i feel obliged to sign up then. but first i think it is necessary for you to explain how you see things. i'll be sure to check in with you. i shall not go on with my remarks now unless you give the house some information. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i note your statement and consider it to be correct both in terms of procedure and in terms of our rules of procedure. i would just like to emphasize that the president of parliament has the right, of course, to convene the conference of group chairmen. but the conference of group chairmen - and that is why i have come back - can only receive information from the president of parliament once again and has no right to change any of the decisions announced by the president this morning. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, if i may make one final remark: all this excitement would have been completely unnecessary if, after drawing up this list and finding that, contrary to the result announced, only 272 votes against had been cast, the parliament's administration had detected the error before the list was published. you'd think that would happen. (applause from the centre)
counsel. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to address this house as i begin this presidency. human rights are, as i think you know, a subject of concern which carries a large part of my personal political commitment. i shall therefore take this happy opportunity to tell you how the presidency intends to promote in practice the universal values on which our union is founded. i would like to take this opportunity to express, as president, the need to defend these values first at home, but also throughout the world. the european union is barely over forty years old. i mean, she's still very young. in reality, europe still has its whole future ahead of it. i am convinced that the future of europe will be determined primarily by its ability to preserve and spread its humanistic values. the european model is based more than ever on three fundamental values: freedom, progress and equality. these values have proved very fruitful whenever they have been combined to initiate dialogue and exchange. unfortunately, too often they have been misused and used for sectarian and sometimes totalitarian purposes. freedom is an ideal that is never satisfied. the history of europe could be written as a long struggle against any arbitrary power. the advancement of freedoms, civil, political and social rights, the assertion of the people, democracy and the rule of law remain the most motivating objectives of european integration. these objectives have been largely and substantially achieved. and yet, we know that there are still many struggles to be fought, even in our old democracies, to achieve them in their fullness, and nothing is ever achieved. freedom can also infringe the rights of minorities or the rights of the weakest. when freedom justifies selfishness, it always leads to intolerance and exclusion. among the freedoms, there is one to which the union is particularly attached, and that is freedom of expression. freedom of the media remains the guarantee of the existence of a public debate which is indispensable to democracy and which allows citizens to exercise control at least as strong as that of our parliaments. this freedom of the press is still violated where regimes do not feel blameless enough to dare to face criticism, where lying is the only way for a power to survive. the protection and promotion of media freedom is the primary responsibility of the state. it is the public authority's responsibility to guarantee everyone's freedom of expression. which makes it all the more difficult to win that freedom, and sometimes to preserve it. let us admit that even democratic governments are sometimes tempted to curtail this right and are often reluctant to accept controversy and criticism. it is equally intolerable that democracy should be held hostage by the press. freedom of the press is a vital, existential right for the rule of law. this right also corresponds to a duty, that of honest information, which seeks to explain or to learn, or to convince, not to mislead. that is why freedom of expression must be a wake-up call to the problems facing the opinion press. the second european ideal is progress. this value has given a powerful impetus to the development of science, technology and economics in the service of man. this ideal has enabled the european project to move forward with confidence, and no doubt irreversibly. it is he who is the origin of the rigorous process of thought and action. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. when uncontrolled progress takes on its own dynamic, it generates fear and confusion. the third ideal: equality. equality is a great lever in europe. it is in its name that the european countries try to ensure equal rights, the equitable distribution of the fruits of economic activity and the democratic representation of everyone's interests. in western europe, it has led to the adoption of extensive social legislation which fosters the concept of equal opportunities and justice. in communist europe, the extreme equality movement has sacrificed the right to personal identity on the altar of collectivism. freedom, progress, equality are not just theoretical values. they are at the heart of the european construction. they give it its most specific and strongest meaning. these values, which are embodied in the founding texts of the union, permanently anchor humanism in european identity. last year, the 15 eu member states adopted this key text of the charter of fundamental rights. this charter sets out the rights and duties of european citizens, both towards each other and towards the human community and future generations. the notions of freedom, progress and equality are prominently featured in the preamble to the charter. the question now arises as to whether this text will become a genuine european constitution. the fact that a contradictory debate can animate reflection on this question must be seen as a way for europe to ask itself about its own future. it is also an opportunity to offer citizens the opportunity to take a stand, because to take a stand is already to taste freedom. it's allowing him to re-appropriate his power of free choice. but too often the citizen feels that he has lost this right to various powers, which are becoming less and less identified, such as technocracy. article 7 of the treaty provides for a mechanism to respond to serious and persistent breaches of european values. in a united europe, the respect of fundamental values by each member state has become the concern of all. each country is now concerned with what is happening in the whole of europe. if it is to convince third countries of the validity of its humanist values, the european union must set an example before it teaches lessons. the core values are not only in the texts, they are also put into practice in the policies of the european union. a prime example of the application of european values in everyday life is the enlargement policy of the union. as you know, the enlargement of the european union is a huge challenge. i think that our public opinion is wrongly concerned about the imbalance between the development of the member states of the union and that of the applicant countries. the consequences for security, social rights, immigration and agriculture, for example, cannot be overlooked. if we are not careful, this enlargement could lead to the end of the progress that has been patiently achieved over the last 40 years. why, then, some might ask, take the risk? the answer lies in the generous political audacity of the founders of europe who enshrined the notion of international solidarity alongside the national interest. furthermore, enlarging the european union is a historic task, one of reuniting peoples who have been separated by history for too long. these two good reasons, which were the basis of the most beautiful political idea of the 20th century, are still very much alive. enlarging the european union is in keeping with the open and generous vision of the original european project. the second example concerns the foreign policy of the european union. in the last two years, this european policy has undergone a spectacular development. at the end of the belgian presidency, the european union should be declared capable of managing international crises, which means clearly that it would be able to mount humanitarian missions, evacuation missions and peacekeeping missions to stabilise regional conflicts. beyond the defence of its economic and commercial interests, europe must also ensure that its values are defended through concrete action. europe cannot remain passive in the face of the intolerable. freedom, progress and equality are only possible in a context of peace. europe exists because of peace. i would even dare to say that europe is peace. the reconciliation of former enemies, the unification of different countries by peaceful means, is a political innovation which is an example for third countries. it is not for nothing that the need for europeanization of the balkans is often mentioned. the process is already under way. these are the values on which our great european enterprise is based. to question these values is also to discover one's european identity.
commission. – mr president, may i start by commending mr wuori for a challenging and focussed report, which has attracted overwhelming support from this parliament. i also enjoyed listening to the minister’s speech: parliament knows his personal commitment to the enhancement and protection of human rights. the year since parliament’s last report on human rights has been punctuated with important institutional and policy developments. the reform of external aid has taken root and europe aid is tackling the avalanche of responses to the two recent calls for proposals on human rights, some 1 400 proposals for a total of eur 1.6 billion. the charter of fundamental rights has been solemnly proclaimed and it is an important element in the european union’s efforts to ensure coherence between internal and external human rights policy. the adoption by the council of guidelines on torture has provided a clear framework for policy and action in that area and the communication on human rights and democratisation, which was long in gestation, but strong in delivery, was adopted on 8 may and it sets out a clear strategy for the short term and the medium term. we now have to focus on the implementation of its proposals. it is evident from mr wuori’s report that parliament and commission are thinking along similar lines when it comes to human rights. this is my first opportunity to present the communication to parliament in a plenary session. boiled down to its essence, the communication seeks to promote coherent and consistent human rights policies in the european union’s relations with third countries, to maximise the leverage afforded by political dialogue, trade and external assistance, and to set out a more strategic and focussed approach for the european initiative, for democracy and human rights. several issues raised in mr wuori’s report dovetail with points in our communication. for example, we make clear that parliament will be consulted on the programming of the european initiative for democracy and human rights for 2002 and the years beyond. on reporting and evaluation, the commission is committed to publishing regular reports on the activities that we fund. the latest report was released on 22 may and it provides a thorough analysis of projects supported under the 2000 budget. the promotion of human rights is, as the honourable member’s report makes clear, an indispensable element in the prevention of conflict. the communication on conflict prevention issued in april confirms the high priority given by the commission to developing the union’s capacities. more systematic use of country-strategy papers will help to ensure the cogent use of community instruments to address both the root causes of conflict and other human rights problems. as regards the rapid reaction mechanism, the commission will provide parliament in due course with an evaluation of activities undertaken. the central theme of the honourable member’s report, freedom of expression, finds an echo in the communication, which makes clear that this will fall under the first of the four priority areas for the european initiative for democracy and human rights programme for 2002 and beyond, and that theme is indeed of pivotal importance. the right to express one’s opinions without fear or consequence is to borrow a phrase from the great english judge lord devlin, –a lamp that shows that freedom lives.’ when state authorities start to close down newspapers, when they start to harass or imprison journalists, it is a sure sign that human rights and freedom are crumbling. the european union makes its views plain on this subject in its contacts with third countries, and in international fora such as the un commission on human rights. moreover, the rhetoric is matched with hard support. under the european initiative alone, over eur 5.4 million was allocated in 2000 to projects in support of freedom of expression, free media and the protection and training of journalists. a large project in africa and asia undertaken by ‘rapporteurs sans frontières’, offers a good example. fact-finding on imprisoned journalists, and the provision of practical assistance to journalists and their families, is coupled with education and media campaigns. i would like to look now at another thread running through the honourable member’s report, the relationship between our two institutions. parliament has cultivated a high profile with respect to human rights. as i mentioned when i presented the communication to the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy on 15 may, the reports and resolutions of parliament on the commission’s previous performance on human rights were of great use in drawing up the communication. the commission is keen to reinforce its dialogue on human rights with parliament, and this is reflected in the consultations which will take place on programming the european initiative in 2002. in cooperation with the presidency, the commission would also seek to ensure that the timing and location of the human rights discussion forum with non-governmental organisations, and with others, takes full account of the need for systematic participation by members of this house. moreover, we want to enhance the potential of the forum. we will begin by evaluating the events held so far, in consultation with parliament, the council and ngos. on human rights clauses, i note parliament’s concern about the lack of implementing rules on suspension in many agreements. as we know, the most recent version of the essential elements clause, as contained, for example, in the cotonou agreement, makes provision for a consultation procedure prior to any suspension of an agreement. it is state-of-the-art in that respect, but changes to existing agreements would require individual renegotiations with partners, which is an undoubtedly lengthy process. nonetheless, the commission stands ready to discuss the future shape and use of the clause, an issue that i raised at the informal foreign ministers’ meeting last month, and it will continue to attach importance to parliament’s views. a final word on police and security equipment, a point which is not directly addressed to the commission in the report. the commission intends to submit to the council before the end of summer a proposal for controlling and, where necessary, prohibiting exports of equipment that may be used for the purposes of torture and cruel inhumane or degrading treatment. the commission will examine with member states whether there is a need for community action in respect of manufacturing, promoting or using such equipment. i know this is of concern both to members and to ngos such as amnesty international, and i am glad that we are close to taking such a significant step. i congratulate the honourable member once again on the excellent report and look forward to working with him and with the house in taking forward our shared concern in human rights.
the commission is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i would like to join my colleague, chris patten, in congratulating mr louis michel on the commitments he has just made as the representative of the council, both in the field of the protection of fundamental rights and in the union's external and internal policies. i would like to draw your attention and your reflection to a particularly significant phrase: 'the union must set an example before it teaches lessons'. the report by the committee on civil liberties, which covers a large number of fundamental rights, was particularly ambitious this year. it is clear that the objective has been achieved. the report is based on a particularly rich and detailed explanatory statement. it also contains a large number of relevant recommendations which would make it possible to improve the protection of fundamental rights in the union very substantially. i would also like to welcome the structure of the report, which follows closely the structure of the charter of fundamental rights. i think this approach is the right one. it will undoubtedly help to promote a community culture of the protection of fundamental rights. i am personally convinced that over the years the preparation of this parliamentary report will become one of the preferred means for a constant and objective assessment of the situation of fundamental rights in the union. such an assessment is particularly necessary for the maintenance and development of the area of freedom, security and justice. we all know, and we are happy to repeat, that the effective protection of fundamental rights is a precondition for the development of an area in which the free movement of persons is truly assured. we have the legal instruments for this purpose: the charter proclaimed in nice, but also article 6 of the treaty on european union, which refers to the european convention on human rights and the common constitutional tradition of the member states, and article 7 of the treaty, which will be further strengthened by the treaty of nice when it comes into force. we must therefore equip ourselves with the means of our politics. the commission warmly welcomes the various proposals contained in the report, particularly those aimed at developing the technical tools to provide expertise in this field. the commission has taken note of the recommendations addressed more directly to it: the appointment of a commissioner responsible for fundamental rights in the union and the implementation of policies linked to the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice, on the one hand, and the reorganisation of the services responsible for monitoring the charter, on the other. these two recommendations are undeniably logical and deserve careful consideration. i can assure you, mr cornillet, ladies and gentlemen, that i will encourage a political discussion in the college on these two issues. as regards the first recommendation, i have already stressed the link between the protection of fundamental rights and the area of freedom, security and justice. i can therefore only agree with the need to start thinking about this in the context of the reorganisation of the collegiate system which has been in place since the changes to the treaty of amsterdam and in anticipation of the entry into force of the nice provisions, particularly with a view to the next enlargement. i am well placed to appreciate the importance and necessity of these changes and the new relationship on fundamental rights which will be established between the institutions and bodies of the union and the member states of the union in the context of the application of article 7. as regards the second recommendation, i would draw parliament's attention to an internal communication adopted by the college last march, which calls for strict compliance with the charter in all the commission's activities. in particular, the services were asked to ensure that texts proposed or adopted by the commission were subject to prior examination in the light of the charter. this examination should be evidenced by the introduction of a standard recital for proposals which have a clear link with the protection of fundamental rights. this has been done in various proposals recently submitted to parliament and the council. i cannot take a position on the many recommendations contained in the motion for a resolution concerning the various chapters of the charter. these recommendations, which are mainly addressed to the member states, seem to me personally to be within reach and, as i said, likely to improve the protection of fundamental rights in the union very substantially. we know that democracy is a model that is never achieved, but it is above all a model that must be approached. it is in this perspective of gradual approximation that i believe these recommendations should be understood by the member states. not as criticisms, but as suggestions for improving the level of protection of fundamental rights throughout the european union. the commission has also taken note of the recommendations addressed to it on european citizenship, particularly in relation to paragraphs 122 and 123 of the report. i would point out that the revision of the existing texts on the free movement of persons, to which reference is made in paragraph 123, is the subject of a commission proposal which was transmitted to parliament and the council at the end of last week. i hope that these proposals, which are important for ensuring the right of free movement and the right of residence in the member states, will be examined rapidly under the belgian presidency, and that they will be examined under the codecision procedure. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fundamental rights are undoubtedly the identity card of a european political and social model whose values we want to preserve, not from a purely defensive perspective, but above all from a proactive perspective, while recognizing the need to adapt them to a world in profound change. the future of europe must be built by placing fundamental rights at the heart of the essential political compromise and by demonstrating the founding role of the dignity of the person and a humanistic vision of the european political project. i hope that this new role for fundamental rights will also be the key to europeans' renewed enthusiasm for europe. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i should like to thank mr wuori for a good and comprehensive report. as the shadow rapporteur for the epp group, i would like to thank you very much for the good cooperation. the european parliament rightly considers itself to be the european institution which, in relation to third countries, has always been the most decisive in its interference in the internal affairs of those countries, for the benefit of their people. we are intervening because we do not consider the protection of human rights to be an internal matter. but for the protection of human rights, sometimes individual events are also of great relevance. the fact that mr milosevic is on trial in the hague has made it difficult for many dictators and autocrats to sleep well over the past week. such a procedure against a former government leader is classic preventive human rights policy. i can only advise certain powerful people to be careful in the future. you're not getting away with this! earthly justice will be its own. the question is often asked whether such reports have any effect. i 'll make it clear: the fact that governments concerned or feeling concerned are already trying to prevent what they consider to be embarrassing findings before a report is produced, shows that such reports must have an impact, and that impact must be felt by civil society in the countries concerned. in some cases, such criticism is also appropriate for governments. it is a question of the ability of the member states to take the necessary measures, for example in the field of the candidate countries for accession to the eu, by pointing out the shortcomings identified in our reports. if i look at the recent example in romania, where our colleague baroness nicholson has shown in difficult detail the terrible conditions in the area of orphanages, child trafficking and adoption abuse, then a government is really getting going, in a positive way, and tackling the deficits. but we must also keep up with the times, and this is the task of the commission delegation on the ground and our 15 embassies, so that we can see that it is actually implemented. i would also like to mention india as an example: i expressly support the proposals made by mr haarder on the untouchables and the caste system. the indian government is also opposed to this in principle, but i have the impression that it should do more. perhaps she needs a direct invitation from us. human rights are not a matter of opportunity. we should repeat this to all our governments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also called on the swedish foreign ministers not to adopt different standards. i hope governments will heed the warning. i do not want to see any more tortured looks on our side when, in delegation talks with china, the death penalty, falun gong or tibet are mentioned, tortured looks because they are afraid that a good deal may be jeopardized. anyone who is in the same boat as mr putin and does not have the strength to protest against the new way of regulating the press in russia through economic takeovers is not doing our relations with russia a favour, nor is it helping to strengthen civil society in the country. let us ensure that human rights issues become an integral, active part of every ministerial briefing and subsequent press conference wherever it is needed. we are therefore in favour of a more flexible approach to the problem of the environment. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. the report by our colleague matti wuori has shown that the political fight against censorship by force must become a common european foreign policy action. freedom of expression and independent journalism are the backbone of democracy. it is therefore important that this information be recognised as a freedom of expression, as a basic prerequisite for individual rights, for collective and social fundamental rights. we can only achieve this if censorship is abolished by force. however, many journalists risk their lives and freedom to make the public's right to information possible. what is the union doing? it has deep partnerships with countries where censorship is still practiced, and it is very important that in the partnership and cooperation agreements and the summits that take place to do this, that in russia, ukraine, armenia and azerbaijan, this is a central issue of the summits, not just a footnote. i ask the council and the commission whether they are prepared to see the issue of press censorship placed more centrally in european politics, in order to give fundamental rights, human rights, social and collective rights a chance to develop.
- mr president, i was not present when the subject was also human rights. we had a problem outside with a small group who disagree with the situation in turkish prisons. that is why i was not in the chamber. but i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mr cornillet, for his report, because it is a good approach. i'm very impressed with its structure. we've been over this. it is quite right to align this report with the charter of human rights. this is certainly the right decision and has certainly been a tremendous challenge, and there are many more additions to be made. we agree on that too. but i would like to say a few words about the substance of what we have seen around parliament today. in his report, mr cornillet has dealt with the situation of prisons in the european union. i just wanted to remind everyone of that for a moment. we are often abroad and criticize the applicant countries, especially when it comes to prisons. the situation in prisons in the applicant countries is not acceptable to us. but if you read mr cornillet's report, you will see that we have a lot of problems in our own countries with our own prisons. for this reason, not only should you write it down, but the governments of the european union will also have to correct some things. in any case, it should be remembered!
- mr president, when the leaders of europe make state visits, they carry heavy political baggage. it's about economic relations, trade deals, financial aid. rarely are they about environmental issues and mostly only marginally about human rights. but human rights and the rule of law are the foundation of our social order. my experience in asia, from india to nepal to korea, shows that our commitment to human rights is also a great hope for the citizens there, the socially vulnerable, the marginalized, the persecuted, the families and the children. they attach hope to our commitment on the ground, to our resolution, and we must involve the ngos, our competent dialogue partners, much earlier. hope also comes from our partnership agreements with human rights clauses. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the child are respected. that's how productive pressure is created. the more we tackle concrete problems with determination, the clearer it becomes that human rights are not a western idea but a universal one. our action is not an unwarranted interference in internal affairs, but a necessary intervention against racism, against torture, against exploitation, against the death penalty. the european union must play a much more active and leading role in human rights issues at international level. is there enough done at the 57th session of the commission on human rights in geneva? the eu member states are united in their support for the us initiative to put the continuing human rights violation in china on the agenda. but the overall vote was missing the votes from africa and south america. we have very traditional allies there. the european union therefore needs a much better coordinated strategy in the run-up to important decisions, so that our human rights efforts in the future will be much more successful.
- mr president, i have to go. the applause for mrs jackson's speech, which has come from all the political groups, shows that there is a consensus in europe on climate policy. there is obviously a certain consensus in public opinion in the united states, but public opinion in the united states is different from that in europe. i believe that we are not just talking to one or another member of parliament or government representative about this, but that europeans really need to think about how they can influence public opinion in the united states - i would add, also in japan, if it should turn out that the japanese are not participating. the task of tackling climate change is so enormous that going it alone will be extraordinarily difficult. that is the question we are faced with. we are prepared to follow the path decided in gothenburg, which i support, even if the others do not join us. it's easy to say with words. making a commitment to take on these burdens is easy and free. but after that, it's gonna be really hard to implement. my fear is that the europeans, or many europeans, are hiding behind the united states. the reality is that we are a long way from meeting the kyoto protocol. we all know that. the commission is constantly feeding us new figures. i would like to say that we are faced with a truly herculean task. i would like to say that despite these difficulties, this offers europe the opportunity for the first time since the second world war to assume political leadership in the world. we should seize this opportunity, knowing full well that it is not easy. it is a noble task, not a dirty one, and it is a noble task that europe should be facing, and if the others are to come later, we should bear with it. my third comment concerns the text only. i can 't help but think about it , and i don 't want to keep it from you . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. i don't know how that got in. climate change has always been there, but this time we're doing our part, and that's the part that counts.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the fight against climate catastrophe is the most important environmental policy challenge of our time, and i would go so far as to say that it is perhaps the most important challenge of all, even outside environmental policy. the stakes in bonn are therefore very high. it is therefore important that the european union acts in a united manner and i therefore appeal to the council and the commission to involve the parliament's delegation in their activities and to involve at least the head of our delegation in the eu coordination, because we would like to support the position of the council and the commission. of course, this is only possible if we are really well informed. the main problem, of course, is the attitude of the united states. that's been said many times. it is not enough to simply agree that the us position is unacceptable. we must now consider how we can exert even more pressure in practice, after the good words and appeals have not done much good. the european union should make climate change and the kyoto agreement the main priority in its relations with the united states. we have many different positions towards the american government and the members of congress, but this is the biggest problem, and this should also be clear. that is why i was a little disappointed when they said after the gothenburg summit: we disagree on this, and that was it. the eu must make it clear that we may disagree on other issues and still go on the agenda, but this is a priority for the eu. we should perhaps even make concessions in other areas to really enforce this priority. if the americans are then ready to ratify kyoto and to cooperate concretely in bonn, then we should also be flexible and, for example, not simply follow the eu's doctrine on nuclear energy, but also make compromises. but the americans must commit themselves to ratifying kyoto and to supporting the climate change process.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, i would recommend that the house approve the proposal for a council decision on the federal republic of yugoslavia as originally proposed by the commission. we know that there are some discussions in the council budgetary areas which should lead to restrictions, but we think it is right at the present political moment that the amounts are approved as originally envisaged in the proposal. there is a very good reason for this: i believe that after we have made it clear for so long that the european union's help is available if the people of serbia and montenegro shake off the dictatorship, we should also keep our word. it is important, especially after the events of the last few days, which led to the expulsion and extradition of milosevic to the hague tribunal, that we, as the european parliament and as the european union, make it clear, for these internal reasons, that the funds will be released, so that the people of such a country will also see that it is worthwhile to fight for democracy and human rights. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. this macroeconomic aid is not aid directly linked to a programme but is a first injection to help things get going. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but, commissioner, i believe that these amendments, which amount to checks, which call for the participation of other donors, without considering this as a condition, are all positions which ultimately do not lead to prevention and delay, but contribute to clarification, which strengthen the possibilities of checks and which at the same time make it clear that we want help quickly. you know that this house has not had any difficulty in requesting urgency in this area and that we have also expressed our willingness to make the necessary procedural changes as quickly as possible with the cooperation of the other committees involved, such as the committee on budgets and the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. let me also make a general political remark: we have seen over and over again in recent years that we have had great theoretical discussions about developments in the former yugoslavia, but that our efforts, whether in the field of prevention and civilian crisis management or in the field of the threat and use of military capabilities, have generally come too late. it was always the policy of "too little, too late". this has also led to the situation we are seeing in macedonia these days. this false approach, which ultimately forces us to make even greater sacrifices and greater achievements because we did not act at an early stage, because we were not able to put into practice the very idea of preventing civilian crisis management because of the complete fragmentation of responsibilities which the international community is displaying in this region, has led to a major political failure in a wide range of areas. we want to make it clear once again by providing these funds that this is not up to us, that we as the european parliament are prepared to do everything possible as quickly as possible, but that this is also a request to the commission and the council to take the necessary political decisions in the future in a different way. i remember being insulted two months ago when i spoke about the possibility of war in macedonia, which was called irresponsible because you deny the facts as long as you can, just because you are too cowardly to tell the truth to your own citizens at home. afterwards, it becomes too expensive for everyone, and it costs lives again. we are therefore urging you once again to help quickly to bring peace, democracy and human rights to this region.
- mr president, i have to go. i can only speak for a majority of my group on this subject. we agree with the commission's proposal and report. i think that some of mr swoboda's critical remarks need not be repeated here. i'd like to share that, too. what mr brok said about the need for a preventive peace policy and civilian crisis management makes me put my concept aside. of course, it is true that much faster and more concentrated action is needed. but i think there are other aspects of this policy that are lacking. i think you are quite right, mr rapporteur, in your amendment no 2, to say that aid to yugoslavia should be linked to the development of the rule of law and cooperation with the war crimes tribunal in the hague. but if at the same time a violation of the principles of the rule of law is being blackmailed, above all by the usa, but obviously also by the german chancellor, then this is a policy which in the long term and in a sustainable way is more likely to discredit the rule of law and democratic development. i see such contradictions in other areas as well. macedonia was mentioned. we have been witnessing for many months the hoping and the failure of the kla to disarm. kfor has thus become complicit in the developments in macedonia and in new conflicts. we had a policy in kosovo which was supposed to prevent ethnic cleansing, and we have another, totally unacceptable ethnic cleansing today in the wake of the nato war. i believe that a preventive and permanent security policy is not compatible with this. i think it is time to move away from policies that limit conflict and mitigate the damage they have caused. it is time to expect and demand democracy and the rule of law, protection of minorities and human rights not only from political opponents, but also to practice them where they stand in the way of one's own power interests. i think that the welcome developments in yugoslavia have really gone a long way, but the policy changes in nato and the eu in this respect are still pending.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. so tonight we shall be discussing the three reports which have been drawn up, and if i look around here, we all know what we have to say, so there is no news. the commissioner herself has listened to us on more than one occasion, so let us just say it again for the record. the supplementary and amending budget is absolutely uncontroversial in the committee. the main points are: firstly, money for 27 new research posts; secondly, the olaf organigram and the necessary money in the budget line for recruiting new staff; and thirdly, more money than the commission has earmarked for aid in the balkans. so, we want more than 100 million more. the budgetary committee has unanimously decided this, with the help of all the members. i would also like to thank mr bösch for the solution on olaf. he has worked very hard to get us to this compromise. the fact that the balance of the 2000 budget is in surplus of eur 11.6 billion is a reason for parliament to point out once again that budgetary management is very frugal and for the council to celebrate. but what is the own resources report about, and why is it even there? we in parliament took the initiative and asked the council to discuss with us the state of the union's own resources before each budgetary procedure, before the commission's draft budget, to discuss carefully and not to take part in the decision-making. we thought that was a very cheap idea, but it is far from the case, the council refuses, and it is doing so again tonight. he doesn't listen! he refuses to even talk to us about the revenue of the european union. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the trends we observed for 2001 were not different from those observed in previous years. the traditional own resources and the vat own resources are decreasing in importance. the member states' transfers, by share of gross national product, are continuing to increase. in total, 98.3% of the 2001 budget is covered by own resources. this represents 1.06% of gross national product, well below the financial perspective ceiling of 1.27%. the trend towards the dominance of gross national product-own resources can certainly be observed with mixed feelings. the development could contribute to a fairer distribution of burdens between the member states, since gross national product is probably the best indicator of the relative prosperity of the economies of the member states, because, if you look closely, it is now the case that some member states pay 22, 29 or even 33% of their payments to the european budget from traditional own resources, that is, from money that has long belonged to the european union anyway. secondly, the development is changing the character of the eu's own resources, which are being transformed from genuine own resources into a kind of contribution by the member states. thirdly, it simply does not establish a visible link between the union and its citizens. this morning, when the belgian president of the council, the belgian prime minister guy verhofstadt, spoke, my heart was opened wide and i accepted him wholeheartedly, because he too is calling into question this indirect financing of the european union. he too calls for more transparency. he also wants to make the european union more familiar to citizens, and that includes making its financing more transparent. we want financial autonomy at european level and we want to work towards it now. we want this financial autonomy jointly and on an equal footing with the council, and we want to take part in the decision-making on it. we want equality in all cases, one of the two arms of the budgetary authority, in all expenditure and in all revenue. we want full budgetary autonomy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the belgian minister for finance supports this demand and even the german minister for finance has not rejected it outright. so, a european tax may be the music of the future, but if we do not start playing it now, we will not be able to dance to it. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. as co-rapporteur or co-rapporteur with my colleague jutta haug, i had a little easier time with the amending and supplementary budget. i would therefore like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur for her excellent work on the amending and supplementary budgets. as for my area, which i have the honour of representing here, the aim is to extend the a7 and b5 posts in the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions and to create an additional a5 and a7 post. i fully agree with this, of course, in substance, and this is a very serious matter, because it is a matter of the conversion of the belliard building. it is also in the european parliament's interest that this building in brussels should be put to a useful use on a permanent basis. i would like to stress the fact that both committees are making the necessary resources available by making cuts in staffing. this shows that the will to save which we have called for from all the institutions is being put into practice in an excellent way by the two committees. i can therefore recommend that you adopt the specific plans vi and vii of supplementary and amending budget no iii. i would also like to make a few general remarks, because i am grateful to the group for allowing me a few minutes to conclude my part as rapporteur. first of all, i think it is a good thing that parliament is considering two supplementary and amending budgets at the same time. we are also making a contribution to saving taxpayers' money and to making progress in the direction of administrative simplification. i think that is also worth mentioning. i would like to point out that on the revenue side of the 2000 budget, the surplus - mrs haug has mentioned it - of eur 11.5 billion already shows that there is still some room for manoeuvre. i remember the rituals - and we shall have the honour of continuing this ritual in july - how we fight for every euro, how the council gets on its knees and accuses us of drawing from the horn. in the end, thanks to a serious budgetary policy on the part of the commission, but also with the constant care and support of parliament, which ensures that budgetary resources are handled carefully, surpluses are now being created in a way that might perhaps make some rituals unnecessary for the future. the fact that the finance ministers of the member states are happy to receive a generous discount for the current budget is only a marginal fact. this will surely follow us forever in the form of gratitude from the member states. i would also like to make a few comments on the subject of own resources. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. so, back then, they made music that nobody danced to. i do not know whether it is worthwhile to start a discussion at european level about financing ourselves through taxes. the first task that europe must tackle is the question of the delimitation of powers. the citizens of europe would naturally also like to know: what is this europe responsible for, why does it need funds? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also been asked to provide the necessary information to the member states on the implementation of the new rules. i think if we start things like this, then we're on the right track. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it does not help us to achieve lasting acceptance among the citizens of the european union. i would like to conclude by thanking mr costa neves, who has had the difficult task of agreeing the terms of reference with the council, which will be meeting shortly. we have some problems here again for next year. so the committee on budgets will not be bored. but i think that mr costa neves has done so with the necessary prudence and the necessary wisdom to make a serious proposal to the taxpayer, whom we represent here as part of the budgetary authority. i am glad that the german social democrats are also very open to the proposals from bavaria. it gives you a whole new perspective for next year. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i regret that i have to start by telling my colleague markus ferber from bavaria that he will not find the same things in the places where he hoped to find them, and i will tell you why. he said that we must have another institutional development of the european union before we can talk about finances in the european union. i think that's wrong. it is particularly evident in the issues on the table today. if a citizen is asked today what the european union is spending its money on, 30% say to cover its administrative expenditure, another 30% do not know what the money is being spent on at all. that is 60% of the people who do not know how we are dealing with the money that has been put at our disposal by the taxpayer. the taxpayer knows that it is a huge sum from his point of view. it is a huge sum of money that is being spent, and i think that today the citizen would be very surprised by what he is being offered at european level. on the one hand we have a supplementary and amending budget. in one of them the european union shows, the commission shows that it intends to follow the will of parliament only piecemeal, at least as far as the parts concerning uclaf and the new body olaf are concerned. we have made a very clear statement during the year. we wanted to have the staff and the staff table designed in such a way that a new institution was created here that meets modern requirements. we can only thank our colleague herbert bösch for putting the finger in the wound, for not trying to reorganise staff and transfer the same institution, which was discussed and targeted relatively strongly last time, to another, which cannot then have completely new structures with similar people. this too must be criticized at this point. the second point is that we will transfer 11 billion euros back to the member states. 11 billion means that we have an under-utilisation of the budget of about 10%. we have an under-use in the field of consumer policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals. consumer policy is something that has to be taken at face value. this is what we have been discussing more intensely than anything else in the last few months, indeed years, and it is precisely this that is being spent 75% of the funds. we have provided funds to tackle one of the european union's biggest problems, underemployment. i will give you the employment policy expenditure ratio: 39.6%. we have several million unemployed, funds are available, and only about 40% of these funds can be spent. you can hardly explain that to a european citizen. so we're giving back billions of dollars! we can also go to category iv, the foreign policy area, where almost 60% of the funds are spent on the european initiative for democracy and the protection of human rights - a subject which we always celebrate very loudly in every resolution, in the case of emergencies. the rest is forfeited and goes back to the member states. i 'm telling you very clearly: the european citizens need to know where the money is going. but you also need to know where it came from. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must make sure that the citizens understand this. we must make both the revenue side and the expenditure side more transparent. we cannot explain to anyone why we are first raising 11 billion in the budgetary consultations in a fight with the council, only to have it returned in the supplementary and amending budget at the beginning of next year because it was not needed. the money then goes into the corresponding national budgets. so we have to get away from it. there must be a reliable, predictable source of income that is visible to the citizens - however it is now, it must not be squatted, and i agree with markus ferber. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have to do this. if we have this on the revenue side, if it is directly linked to the citizens, and then the expenditure side is also controlled by the citizens - they will be watching what we do with the money - then there will be no transfer back to the member states, but they will ask us: how did you actually deal with it? the two subjects we are discussing today, namely supplementary and amending budgets with massive cash transfers on the one hand and own resources on the other, are brought together here, and the question is: what are the citizens paying for this europe? i think we should not be afraid to talk to the citizens about what we are doing. we have very good arguments, we have very good policy areas and policies, and we can represent them. we should not be afraid of the citizen, but should approach him very openly and transparently and invite him to build europe with us here.
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the budget is always full of work and discussions and decisions, and today we had four important items: the two supplementary budgets for the current financial year, the resolution on the financing of the budget and the preparation of the first reading of the 2002 budget in the council. amending budget no 3/2001 concerns only staff matters, first in the research field and secondly at olaf. amending budget no 4/2001 concerns the use of the budget surplus of the previous year. the report by mrs haug and mr ferber is available on both these matters. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the new rules on the internal market. this is acceptable to the commission. as regards the change in olaf's establishment plan, it is based on a compromise reached in lengthy negotiations, but i would like to make a few comments on this point. firstly, a remark on the fact that the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, which is here, continues to refer to the existence of serious irregularities at olaf, namely that there are more a officials than posts. i simply have to point out again, with regard to the term 'irregularities', that for the 2000 establishment plan the budgetary authority had approved a certain number of 'a' posts. they were not even fully filled by the commission or olaf, but for the 2001 budget the budgetary authority decided to reduce the number of a posts to fewer posts than there were officials. this is a unique procedure and of course creates difficulties, but then to speak of an irregularity, to give the impression that the commission has filled posts for which it was not authorized, is simply not true and i must reject the term irregularities in this context. i would also point out that the commission forwarded the proposals for the establishment plan of the director of olaf to the budgetary authority unchanged, precisely to underline olaf's independence. on the other hand, some decisions of the european parliament practice very detailed micromanagement, which naturally raises at least some questions from the point of view of independence. overall, the fact that positions are closed and that unfortunately not all positions are yet open does not make working conditions easy for olaf, and the authority has indeed very large tasks to tackle, and above all a wide range of different tasks. i can only reiterate at this point that the commission is doing everything possible to create good working conditions for olaf. the second supplementary and amending budget. the 2000 budget was in surplus of eur 11.6 billion - this has been mentioned several times here. it is partly due to increased revenue, for example from a better development of gross national product than initially assumed, but for the most part from unimplemented appropriations on the expenditure side. i have to say something about structural policy, which is the biggest part of it - 6 billion of the 11 billion came from it - and that is that when the interinstitutional agreement was drawn up and signed, it was already taken into account that it would probably be difficult to implement all the funds in the first year. this was accepted, and it was decided that commitments for later years could be reinstated, and this has been done, so that it is ensured that no funds are lost in the area of the structural funds because of implementation difficulties in the first year of the decisions. the conclusion to be drawn from this is that, in my view, preparations and decisions must be taken much earlier for a future period of support. i would point out that, for example, parliament's position on the community initiatives was adopted in april 2000. and you can see here that the whole process started too late. in other words, you simply have to set an earlier timetable for the next funding period. this concerns everyone, the commission, parliament and, of course, the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already allocated 1.6 billion to the 2001 budget, including for the bse measures decided in supplementary budget no 1. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have also proposed that eur 350 million be used to increase the funds for reconstruction in the balkans and that the other part, eur 7.5 billion, be returned to the member states, that is to say, that their contributions to the 2001 budget be reduced accordingly. the rapporteur is now proposing to use not just eur 350 million but eur 450 million to increase the budget for the balkans. the commission was originally going to finance this difference by further transfers from other areas, but we now agree with your proposal, particularly in the time aspect, which is very important. we do not want to risk a freeze on payments for measures in kosovo or serbia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the question of how to finance the european budget in the best possible way is becoming increasingly topical. on the one hand, of course, we have the following situation: a new own resources decision has been taken with a new structure, and this own resources decision will of course apply, unless otherwise decided, with all the components that go with it, including the uk rebate component. that's the law. the treaty provides for the following structure of financing: the public budget is financed by its own resources. it's in the contract. the agreement with parliament in 1975 stressed once again that this should be real own resources. instead, it has de facto taken a very different direction, and you have also shown in detail in your report, mrs haug, that it has taken a different direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is one of the most serious points that hardly any citizen knows how the financing is going, and what is not known is all the more opaque and leaves room for all kinds of speculation. i can only say once again that i very much welcome the fact that the belgian presidency of the council is willing to take up this issue of financing the eu budget, and, mr ferber, i think that this is a subject which falls within the whole complex of the division of competences between member states and the european level. that's where it originally belonged. i think it is also very important that all those who welcome restructuring on the revenue side should now find a common vocabulary as soon as possible. when we talk about the introduction of an eu tax, it sounds as if a new tax is to be invented, and the right to levy it is then vested in the european union. that's not the point. the question is to designate a tax which will be paid in whole or in part to the european budget, where the revenue ceiling is at european level, and of course the problem of the budgetary law of the european parliament. i can only emphasize what mrs haug said, the real question is: will this reduced budgetary right of the european parliament remain on the revenue side as well as on the expenditure side? i think that now is the opportunity and we should seize the momentum, in my view, that a council presidency is dealing with this in its own right, and if it is not taken up as a subject for laeken at this point, then i fear that the subject will once again be buried for a long time and not be debated. the report by mr costa neves. the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. i would like to stress once again that 9 july, with the trilogue, is of course also an important date, an important point in the whole budgetary procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i must point out again that i cannot of course be divided into two parts, and it is of course the duty of the commissioner for the budget to take part in the trilogue on the preparation of the conciliation procedure for the 2002 budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr costa neves has dealt with this in detail. let me say this: the commission's proposal to set aside a reserve of 1 000 million euro in the agricultural budget is the most appropriate proposal to deal with the uncertainty we have about the development of agricultural expenditure next year. we have now the first bills on the table for foot-and-mouth disease, and there will be more bills coming in this area, and they confirm that a really big reserve is needed. we should be on the safe side and, of course, with the letter of amendment in the autumn of this year we will be able to say more precisely, also on the question: how much do we have to pay from the budget for foot-and-mouth disease? but for the time being, i believe that the reserve proposal is the most appropriate one, and i would ask the european parliament to support it in its consultation with the council. the second point concerns the failed fisheries agreement with morocco, which has been mentioned by several speakers here. it's an important point. that is why i want to speak briefly about it. the commission plans to propose a cofinancing programme in july to support the restructuring of the spanish and portuguese fleets concerned. it is a programme which is to be financed under the structural funds category, but you will now say that the structural funds category is empty or full. the commission will therefore propose that the flexibility reserve or part of it be used to finance this restructuring programme. this would be a one-year programme, which could be implemented over several years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the free movement of goods. the preliminary draft budget is in fact the same as the 2001 budget and the commission sees no reason for further cuts, but the commission will of course support the rapporteur in improving the budgetary comments as requested. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use and the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a good one. i would also like to make it clear that it is not the expenditure on the reform of the commission that is putting pressure on the financial framework. we all have to look at the necessary reforms, and i think it is essential that all the institutions try to come up with a medium-term plan so that we can see where changes are needed to deal with category v. it is really worth considering to what extent a high level group or similar group should be used to deal with these issues. you referred, mr costa neves, to the report requested by the european parliament, which concerns, among other things, the implementation of the budget. i thank you for your positive mention of the fact that it was submitted in good time and that it is a good working instrument for discussing the issues raised in parliament's statement. the commission will also be closely cooperating with parliament on any measures to be included in the budget. as agreed, the commission will be involved in the discussions by the various committees at an early stage to ensure the feasibility of actions and pilot projects. this is also an important concern for us, and i would like to emphasize in particular the areas of asylum and immigration policy. a brief word on the priorities in the field of e-learning and employment policy for smes. these are areas where large sums are available not only on the budget lines in heading 3 but also in the structural funds, and the commission considers that the new instruments introduced in the last budget must first prove themselves before they are substantially reinforced or extended. all this, and i should like to conclude, shows how many discussions we still have to have. the 2000 budget must be worked out together over the coming months, and i hope that we can make good use of the next few weeks and the next few meetings to work out common views so that we can have a good start on the budget negotiations. (applause from the centre)
chairman of the committee on budgetary control. - mr president, i would like to address mrs schreyer. i'm a little surprised she thinks i wrote her a harsh letter. she quotes me as saying that i had written to her to come to the committee on budgetary control. this can't be happening! i have written a letter of substance asking her to come to us in the committee on budgetary control, in accordance with the agreement we have between the commission and parliament. if mrs schreyer has other commitments, i assume she has the ability to instruct a senior official to give the relevant information to the committee. that's all the letter means! mrs. schreyer, i'm a little surprised you took the letter that way. he was completely objective. i just wanted to say that for the record. thank you.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission says that the constantly growing number of community programmes and their implementation cannot be handled by statutory staff. i guess that's right. the commission must delegate and decentralize. various models in the past have proved inadequate or failed. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products. the commission is now presenting a proposal for a regulation on the statute for so-called executive agencies, which the rapporteur, mr bourlanges, has just explained. i would like to congratulate him on his detailed discussion of this proposal. i would like to emphasize some of the main points in his report. the commission must provide a clear specification of the tasks to be delegated, whether they are public or non-public in nature and the type of executive agency to which they are to be delegated. unfortunately, we do not yet have the guidebook we were promised. it must be clear, however, that the responsibility for the proper and economic execution of the work delegated lies with the commission, which is subject to parliament's discharge, which means that there can be no discharge for the agencies themselves. to this end, parliament shall be provided without delay with all the information and documents it requests. the agencies are also subject to the audit of the court of auditors and, where appropriate, olaf. the commission is also legally responsible for the executive agencies, since they are not enshrined in the treaty as separate bodies. an evaluation of the proper functioning of the agencies shall be carried out after a period of three years at the latest. finally, only temporary contracts should be outsourced. mr bourlanges has just mentioned it. the framework regulation does not provide for any extension of the time limit. i think that question should be settled. in any event, it is important that a minimum of 25% of commission officials be seconded to the executive agencies in order to ensure internal control over administrative tasks and thus the commission's responsibility.
adopted by the commission on 15 december. - mr president, i have to go. integrated coastal zone management must be, but unfortunately many people still do not know what it is. whether on the cliffs of moher in ireland, the algarve in portugal or the watt on the german coast, europe's coasts have enormous economic, ecological, social and cultural significance. coastal areas are not urban areas, but today about one third of the eu population lives in coastal regions. for a fragile ecosystem such as the coast, this poses dangers. but the socioeconomic problems have also increased, as the coastal regions are far removed from the pulsating heartbeat of the conurbations and are neglected by politics. i would just like to remind you of the lack of infrastructure in the coastal regions. so we have to do something about the coasts of europe. the increasing problems are creating an urgent need for planning and management that includes everyone connected to the coast. we need to create an integrated management system that ensures sustainable development and preserves the coast as a habitat. in germany, there is a beautiful saying: "many cooks spoil the porridge". i hear the voices of the critics, raising their fingers in warning and quoting the proverb. but i tell you, the proverb may be true of the porridge, but not of our shores. the areas of concern are very diverse, the sectors concerned are diverse, but the interconnectedness is obvious. tourists come to my coast to fish for crabs, for example. artificial deepening of rivers or the introduction of pollutants endangers the crab population. no crab, no tourists, no money! i'm not going to let you do this. and there are no alternative jobs, especially in the fishing sector. we are faced with overarching problems which cannot be solved by the member states alone or only inadequately. what we need is a combination of forces on the coast, and that will not be without friction, that is clear. but this interplay of forces benefits our environment in the long run. if everyone cooks his own soup, we shall not get very far in europe.
- madam president! - what is it? perhaps a comment, since the regulation of the language question has already been mentioned twice here. i would point out that the language question is regulated in the rules of procedure. the plenary itself, therefore, makes the final decision on the language arrangements in this plenary session, and therefore any concern - including with regard to the question of the bureau - is completely unfounded.
- madam president! - what is it? the g8 meetings seemed to be becoming a routine affair. that's changed. more and more people are realizing that they are moving away from economic and financial issues, that they are beginning to take on the role of a kind of world government. this creates distrust and rejection. the weaknesses of the un may be lamented, but it is legitimized by the international community, as is unctad, which has been put to sleep. the g7 and g8 have, on the other hand, only given themselves a mandate to direct the destinies of the world by virtue of their economic power and their overall strength. the policy of neoliberalism which it promotes does not slow down but rather widen the gap between the north and the south and accelerates the process of impoverishment and indebtedness of the developing countries. but who, as has happened, criminalises, conceals and confuses cause and effect in general terms, while i too reject violence, the resistance of the opponents of globalisation. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, including the introduction of a new drug, the introduction of a new drug policy, and the introduction of a new drug policy. what is needed and what the european union should be committed to is respect for the interests of citizens, and we should demand precisely that and leave no room for what is happening at the moment.
- madam president! - what is it? the g8 summits are in fact an attempt to find global political answers to the globalization of markets, which is a reality. we need these political answers. i would also be very pleased if we could take stock of the g8 summits and see whether the agreements reached at the g8 summits have produced results. i would like to remind you of a very specific problem: children in armed conflict and their protection - unfortunately we have not made much progress on this, although this was once an agreement at the g8 summit. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to see the g8 summit express the wish to create an international competition system within the framework of the world trade system and not restrict it to certain regions of the world. this is all the more important at a time when a summit theme which has not been on the agenda so far is bound to become a topic of discussion and consultation, namely the obscuring of world economic developments. i very much hope that the optimism of the heads of government gathered there will help to revive the economic recovery, because we need sustainable growth in the united states as well as in other regions of the world, and europe is not immune to developments in other regions of the world. in this context, i would also like to make a further plea for the heads of state or government to make the issue of a new financial architecture their subject. we need financial stability in the markets. if it does not exist, it will have a negative effect on the world economy, on our own economies. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east and the situation in the former yugoslavia. i would like to emphasize once again that financial stability is a public good, and it is also intended to benefit the common good of all people. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. sport boats are mainly used for recreational purposes throughout the european union and i believe that this will continue to be the case for the next few years. this recreational sport has expanded greatly in recent years. the european union's fleet of boats, for example, is over 3.5 million motor boats and growing. for example, if you add sailboats and rowing boats, you get one boat for every 70 citizens. the use of sports boats - i would like to contradict the rapporteur on this point - is not without problems. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. we have made a great deal of improvement in the car and truck sectors in recent years, and we should also be making substantial improvements in the sports boat sector. the inhabitants of busy waters in particular are constantly disturbed by the noise of motorboats, even during their rest periods. i think the crucial point is that we have to reduce the noise level of these sports boats. the impact on recreation seekers at weekends and local residents in particular is already very strong, partly due to the increase in sports boats. the noise caused by the displacement of water at high speed should not be underestimated. the implementation of the directive will probably reduce noise and exhaust emissions. i also believe that the exceptions proposed in the committee are correct. i think that the exceptions for historic boats and boats made by the do-it-yourself process are justified. very often these boats were built with a high time commitment and serve their own leisure design. we should get that. but sports boats are used in areas where, as i have already said, there are many recreational boats. it is therefore important to reduce noise pollution in particular. i think it is wrong to continue to allow for major exceptions to this. i think it is right, however, that, while there is a need for harmonization, member states should retain the possibility of adopting stricter rules for waters used for the supply of drinking water. this is not about demarcation, but it is a step towards cost reduction.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i think mr schnellhardt has made the crucial point. the equipment in question, sports boats and especially water scooters, are intended for recreational use only. so, nothing that our society needs, but leisure activities of citizens. if you pollute the environment not because it is socially necessary but for the sake of pure recreation, then the equipment should be as clean and as quiet as possible. it is therefore right and necessary that we improve this directive on one or other point. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the key problem is the sports cars and, i repeat, in particular the water scooters, which are produced in large numbers and are used in sensitive waters, including those used for recreation and drinking water. we need very strict regulations in these areas, which will transfer the technology we have already adapted and introduced for mobile machines - cars, trucks - to the engines of sports boats. you can't do that overnight. that's perfectly clear. we are all realistic and we admit that the manufacturers have to go through a transitional period. but we need the technological implementation to ensure that leisure activities produce as little exhaust as possible and as little noise as possible.
- mr president, i propose that all members of parliament be able to visit their groups of visitors at any time by means of the shuttle service, within a radius of 25 kilometres around the european parliament. so far, you're only allowed to drive 20 kilometers, which corresponds to a 15 km radius. this is not enough for the many groups that travel hundreds of miles. i'm asking you to take appropriate action. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, yesterday afternoon there was a demonstration outside the parliament. the demonstrators used huge sound systems, or loudspeakers, to do this. the spectacle of the unbearably loud noise was not only affecting me but also other colleagues in the exercise of their mandate. i ask you to ensure that, firstly, protesters are not allowed to go around the parliament grounds, as happened yesterday, and secondly, that protesters are prohibited from using sound systems in the wider area of parliament. let me be clear, i am a supporter of freedom of demonstration. i would like to emphasize that musical groups of members of parliament who come to perform music in parliament and in the courtyard of parliament are an asset!
in writing. - (de) i have approved the wuori report on the european union's human rights policy. i welcome the call for a better eu strategy on human rights issues towards third countries and candidate countries. economic criteria are given priority in the accession negotiations, while human rights issues are of only relative importance. i rejected the rapporteur's amendment no 10, because it deletes the part which requires the turkish government to guarantee the return of more than 3 million refugees. i visited some refugee camps in southeastern turkey and saw the misery of the people. even in a human rights report, refugees must not be ignored. i would like to add, with regard to the wuori report, that in turkey, as stated in article 90, there are not only christian minorities but also the yezidis, an unrecognised religious community. in official documents such as birth certificates, a cross is put or a blank space is left instead of the yazidi, as a sign of non-recognition. everyone has the right to practice his religion freely, and i therefore ask for the recognition of all religious communities in turkey.
- the agenda calls for the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance.
- doc. b5-0486/2001 by mr méndez de vigo and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in the democratic republic of congo; - b5-0497/2001 by mr van den berg and others, on behalf of the pse group; - b5-0504/2001 by mr malmström and mr rutelli, on behalf of the eldr group; - b5-0484/2001 by mr frassoni and others, on behalf of the green group; - b5-0512/2001 by mr manisco and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; - b5-0527/2001 by mr dupuis and others, on behalf of the tdi group, on the death penalty in the world and the establishment of a european day against the death penalty.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. all member states have committed themselves to respect the universal declaration of human rights and thus to oppose the death penalty. the death penalty is a violation of the right to life and is degrading. in 2000, according to amnesty international, 1,457 people were executed, including 85 in the united states, 1,000 in china, 75 in iran and 123 in saudi arabia. in iran last week a woman was sentenced to death by stoning for adultery. this reminds me a lot of the middle ages. i am outraged and appalled by this cruelty. although turkey has not carried out any executions since 1984, it continues to execute people. this cannot be accepted, especially in a country which is seeking membership of the eu. turkey must abolish the death penalty in order to be accepted into the european union. in any execution of the death penalty, an innocent person may be killed. there have been a few cases like this. i am particularly concerned about the debate currently taking place in russia about reintroducing the death penalty. five years after the last execution, there are increasing voices calling for the reintroduction of the death penalty for terrorists and drug traffickers. i would remind you that when russia joined the council of europe five years ago, it committed itself to abolishing the death penalty. armenia and turkey must also fulfil this obligation as members of the council of europe. in june the first world congress against the death penalty was held in strasbourg. i welcome events of this kind where ways are being sought to abolish the death penalty. i consider the death penalty a barbaric institution. the death penalty is cruel and inhuman. i condemn all 87 states which still have the death penalty and i call on those responsible to abolish it! (applause from the centre)
commission. – i very much welcome the fact that all the european union institutions are united in working towards the abolition of the death penalty and am pleased that once again the european parliament is in the forefront of these efforts. as the house knows, both the council and the commission have made abolition a priority. the council is pursuing implementation of the european union guidelines where the death penalty still exists. the european union calls for its use to be progressively restricted and insists that it be carried out according to minimum standards. the european union also presses, where relevant, for moratoria to be introduced. it might just be helpful if i set out in detail the guidelines of our policy towards third countries on the death penalty. those guidelines stipulate that the subject should be mentioned, if appropriate, during political dialogue with those countries. it was mentioned, for example, in our recent meetings with the united states. the guidelines stipulate that démarches should be made when there is a threat that the death penalty will be restored or that an official or de facto moratorium will cease. the guidelines make it clear that supportive démarches or public statements should be made when a country takes steps towards abolition. we indicate, in the guidelines, that individual démarches should be made when it seems that minimum standards in this area are being violated. for example: when there is a lack of legal safeguards; when the death penalty is to be applied to those who were minors when the offence was committed; to pregnant women or to the mother of a young child or to the mentally ill and the application of the death penalty for non-violent crimes or offences such as crimes of opinion and conscience and financial crimes. in the recently adopted communication on human rights and democratisation, the commission identified the campaign for the abolition of the death penalty as one of the four priorities that we would pursue over coming years under the european initiative for democracy and human rights. we have already funded a number of projects in this area by mobilising public opinion worldwide against capital punishment. we hope to consign the death penalty to the history books as a form of punishment which has no place in the modern world. to take an example, and i follow what an honourable member said a moment or two ago, i find it almost impossible to believe that i am reading a newspaper published in 2001 when i read reports that women in iran are once again being sentenced to death by stoning. i agree with honourable members that the first world congress to abolish the death penalty in strasbourg on 21 and 22 june 2001 was a very important gathering. while i was not able to attend in person, the commission services represented me and delivered an address. i understand that the presence of those individuals who came to the congress to testify about the years they had spent awaiting execution before being declared innocent was particularly moving and particularly valuable. also, i believe that the congress proved useful in highlighting both the difficult problems related to the abolition of the death penalty and in gathering suggestions of a number of innovative policy strategies, in particular, from the american participants. it was interesting to hear the honourable member's remarks about recent converts on this issue. i also take this opportunity to thank the president for her initiative to invite a number of presidents of parliaments as well as the congress participants to attend the solemn appeal that took place in the european parliament in strasbourg on 22 june last. this was an important part of the congress highlighting the important role of parliaments in eliminating the death penalty. the strasbourg appeal that was adopted at this event will serve as an important reference document for our continued efforts to abolish the death penalty. i am sure that as long as it is required, this parliament along with the other european institutions, will continue to give this issue the priority and the importance which it deserves. (applause)
- thank you very much, commissioner patten. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
- the following motions for resolutions are requested for joint debate: - b5-0487/2001 by mr thomas mann and mr maij-weggen, on behalf of the group of the european people's party; - b5-0498/2001 by mr van den berg, on behalf of the group of the european people's party; - b5-0505/2001 by mr malmström and others, on behalf of the eldr group; - b5-0524/2001 by mr frassoni and mr wuori, on behalf of the green group; - b5-0525/2001 by mr dupuis and others, on behalf of the tdi group, on the bid for the beijing 2008 olympic games.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. mr. patten, you know this area very well. next week the ioc will decide which country will host the 2008 olympic games. the people's republic of china, which is currently seeking recognition on all political fronts, sees itself as the most promising candidate. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. the spirit of the olympic games has nothing to do with chinese politics. human rights are trampled underfoot, freedom of expression and demonstration are aggressively suppressed. tibet has been occupied for over 50 years. minorities such as the uighurs and the mongols are being denied their rights and are losing their cultural identity. fair trials are denied. the death penalty, which we have just been discussing, is imposed and often carried out in public as a deterrent. politics and sports are inseparable. the world youth meeting, with 100,000 spectators and an audience of millions, was misused for propaganda purposes on radio and television, as berlin showed in 1936. the people's joy was genuine, the organization was perfect, but this positive image was exploited by the nazi regime to gain recognition for the dictatorship. the boycott of the 1980 moscow olympics following the red army's invasion of afghanistan has been widely and rightly criticized. however, there was a common understanding. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in the case of china, we in the epp group also deplore the decades of deforestation, pollution of rivers, uncontrolled emissions, which are almost overturning the ecosystem. animal rights activists rightly express outrage at a cruelty that is hardly known. in china, 7,000 bears are being tortured by being kept in cramped cages, while alive, and are being continually drained of their bile for the production of cosmetic and medical products. there is no excuse for that! so there are a lot of arguments against china hosting the olympics. does anyone in this room really believe that we should be able to change the situation within seven years? the people's republic of china can apply for re-election and will be a worthy host of these olympic games if it sets up its own conditions by putting an end to human rights violations and following the path of democracy and the rule of law. it is only when china has become part of our international community of values that the ioc can say in good conscience yes to such a bid next week or in the future. (applause from the centre)
- commissioner patten has been continually referred to as a chinese, so it is time for me to point out that he was the then governor of hong kong. this may not have been known to everyone, especially our guests. i would therefore like to draw attention to this point so that everyone can understand the context.
commission. – the decision on which country will stage the 2008 olympics will be decided by the international olympic committee when it meets in moscow on 13 july. i have some knowledge of the way the international olympic committee does its work. i appeared in front of it in 1990 in support of the magnificent bid by manchester to host the olympic games. it was one of the examples in my life of tilting at windmills, but i know a little about how the ioc works. the european union, as a whole and the commission do not take a position on whether the games should be held in china or elsewhere. the decision is one for the international olympic committee, though i understand why honourable members have such strong views on the subject. i do not have to explain to parliament that i share the concerns which have been expressed about the human rights situation in china – and i will return to that in a moment. just as i have always been doubtful about mixing the pursuit of trade objectives and the pursuit of human rights objectives, however, so i have doubts about mixing up sport and human rights. my worry on both scores is that very often you do not achieve your objective, you simply muddle your objectives. when i was the governor of hong kong, much involved in the debate and the argument about human rights and democratisation, i still every year went to washington to plead for china to have most-favoured-nation status and i certainly did not criticise the earlier bid by china to host the olympic games. i concede that at the margins, it can be helpful occasionally to take measures in regard to sport. for example, one could not argue that taking those measures in relation to south africa during the years of apartheid was anything other than helpful, largely because of the emphasis which the white community in south africa placed on sporting links. if you take the issue of the olympics, while i accept that there are some horrendous examples of the olympic spirit being abused – and one speaker mentioned the 1936 olympics in which my late father-in-law ran – one should also take account of the olympic games in seoul. you would not find many democrats in seoul who argued that holding the olympic games there had set back the pursuit of democracy and human rights, rather the reverse, so the argument is perhaps a little more complex than some honourable members suggested. while these are matters of rather subjective judgment, when i argue this case, i am not doing so out of – to borrow a phrase from the honourable member – supine complicity. i am doing so out of moderate, but not complete, conviction. if beijing is selected to host the games, it will require certainly both welcome and necessary steps on the part of the chinese authorities if they are to have any chance at all of matching the outstanding performance as host, of sydney last year. for example, it would be inconceivable that a country hosting the olympics would or could prevent both its citizens and its visitors from having access to the news on the internet about the games themselves. on a visit i paid to china a few weeks ago, an extremely interesting visit, it was curious that both the bbc and cnn website were inaccessible. i do not think that would be possible at the time of an olympic games. i have spoken on many occasions to this parliament about the european union/china human rights dialogue. i accept what the honourable member said, that we have to be very careful that the dialogue actually produces some progress and it does not turn into, as he said, an act of complicity with the abuse of human rights. our dialogue with china is undoubtedly the most complex and multi-faceted dialogue on human rights which we have with any country, as befits discussions with a country in which so many abuses continue, alas, to occur. the european union is constantly seeking to work with china to make it more effective and to have more tangible impact on the human rights situation on the ground. we are encouraging and supporting china in early ratification and implementation of the un covenants and we continue to urge cooperation with the un high commissioner for human rights. we welcome the memorandum of understanding, which china has signed with mary robinson, but we hope that they will now implement it. within this dialogue, we will continue to press for action in the areas of most concern to us, such as the repression of political dissidents, the suppression of religious freedom, the appalling and excessive use of the death penalty under the strike-hard campaign, the treatment of ethnic minorities, including those in tibet, and the arbitrary detention conditions. i also raised during my last visit to china, the reports of torture and ill-treatment of the followers of the falun gong movement and there are other issues which we must address. there is increasing concern about the abuse of psychiatry in dealing with dissidents and members of religious groups in china. i commend to the house's attention an article written recently in the asian wall street journal, which summarised the academic research of robin monroe, a very distinguished china-watcher, the author of probably the best book on tiananmen, black hands of beijing. i recommend it to the house. i share parliament's concerns for the environment in beijing and in china more widely and for the effects which preparation for the games could have on the city. during my visit in may, i met some of the handful of genuine chinese non-governmental organisations working on environmental issues. i was left with the strong impression that china will find it impossible to meet the objectives it has set itself for environmental protection without the assistance of a civil society, which has mobilised itself voluntarily. a relaxation of the rules governing the establishment and operation of genuine grassroots ngos is essential, so as to harness the energy and commitment of a population of over a billion. the same is true for any country or city which hosts the olympic games. sydney's success derived from the whole-hearted commitment of its citizens to hosting the games and making them a success in the eyes of the world. any country which hosts the olympic games will have a problem if it does not enlist the support of its citizens. i do not believe that i am being naive. i know the appalling problems that exist, but it seems to me at the very least inconceivable that any country like china, although there is no country really like china, but any country with the sort of authoritarian repressive government that china has, would find it impossible to host the olympic games without that having a considerable impact on the development of civil society within that country. (applause)
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 6.30 p.m.
- the following motions for resolutions are requested for joint debate: extraordinary session of the united nations assembly on children - b5-0483/2001 by mr wuori and others, on behalf of the green group; - b5-0490/2001 by mr van hecke and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party; - b5-0495/2001 by mr collins and others, on behalf of the uen group; - b5-0496/2001 by mr van den berg, on behalf of the pse group; - b5-0506/2001 by mr thors and others, on behalf of the eldr group; - b5-0513/2001 by mr boudjenah and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; religious freedom in vietnam - b5-0482/2001 by mr belder, on behalf of the edd group; - b5-0488/2001 by mr nassauer and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party; - b5-0499/2001 by mr van den berg, on behalf of the pse group; - b5-0507/2001 by mr maaten, on behalf of the eldr group; - b5-0521/2001 by mr mckenna and mr wuori, on behalf of the green group; - b5-0514/2001 by mr sjöstedt and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; - b5-0521/2001 by mr dupuis and others, on behalf of the group of the european radical alliance, on south africa; - b5-0509/2001 by mr andreasen and mr van den bos, on behalf of the eldr group; - b5-0522/2001 by mr rod and others, on behalf of the green group; - b5-0515/2001 by mr miranda and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; - b5-0511/2001 by mr queiro and mr ribeiro e castro, on behalf of the uen group; b5-0481/2001 by mr belder, on behalf of the edd group; - b5-0491/2001 by mr sacrédeus and mr posselt, on behalf of the group of the european people's party; - b5-0501/2001 by mr wiersma, on behalf of the pse group; - b5-0508/2001 by mr ludford and mr väyrynen, on behalf of the eldr group; - b5-0523/2001 by mrs schroedter, on behalf of the green group; - b5-0516/2001 by mr seppänen, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; situation of burundian refugees in tanzania - b5-0494 by mr ferrer, on behalf of the ppe-de group, on the situation in the middle east;
- mr president, the un convention on the rights of the child has so far been adopted by 191 countries. the aim of the un special session in new york in september must be to ensure that this convention is not only ratified by all countries but also implemented thereafter. the fight against child labour is an essential element. too often, children are seen as an investment in the survival of the family. parents who have never had an education like their children are bound to fall into the poverty and debt trap. children who are exposed to the most intense physical stress from an early age lose not only their ease and identity but often their entire childhood. i've seen it happen that kids can't live past 14. unicef estimates that 200,000 children are sold into plantation work in west and central africa each year. worldwide, 2 million children - mostly girls - between the ages of 5 and 15 are exploited by sex traffickers. but there is reason for hope. i have seen positive examples on the ground in india and nepal. the rugmark foundation, for example, provides a qualified education for children whose parents work in carpet factories. this ngo was founded jointly by german development aid organizations and carpet manufacturers. these carpets rightly bear the quality label "not made by children". 10% of indian exporters have now successfully applied for a rugmark licence. this is a first step in the right direction. but sustainable success will only come when consumers' awareness changes and they demand these products. another example that gives hope comes from brazil. 11 million children from the poorest families have been introduced into school on a tuition basis. this special programme is designed to last for ten years and, with 850 million euros per year, children will finally be able to benefit from paid education. examples such as these few i have been able to give should be taught in schools all over the world for the sake of children! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, to many people, vietnam seems a long way off. but here is mr mayer, for example, representing lower bavaria, one of the great emerging regions in the heart of europe. you could say that lower bavaria borders vietnam, because if you go from lower bavaria across the czech border to bohemia, you see the big vietnamese markets with all the consequences that these have in the border country. this shows how many waves of refugees have come from vietnam to central and eastern europe in the last 30 years, and it shows how small our world has become and how closely everything is connected. during the last plenary session mr modrow of the pds spoke about the great crimes of the 20th century in asia. he spoke of germany, the united states and japan. but he seems to have completely forgotten that the greatest crimes of the 20th century were committed by communists in asia, namely the khmer rouge, namely stalin, lenin in the east of the soviet union, in china and not least in vietnam, where people were persecuted for decades after the cruel vietnam war and are still being persecuted today. vietnam is a communist country where religious freedom continues to be trampled on. we are in favour of contacts with vietnam, and we are in favour of economic contacts with south-east asia. but we believe that economic cooperation can only have a basis if that basis is the rule of law and democracy. vietnam is neither a state governed by the rule of law nor a democracy. we must give massive support to the reform process there, which is hardly under way, by making it clear that the freedom of religion and conscience, the freedom of buddhists, catholics and protestants who are brutally persecuted and imprisoned there, is the measure of our cooperation with that country. only if religious freedom is guaranteed and only if these standards are respected can vietnam become a partner for us. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, south africa is moving away, as my colleagues have already said, from our hope of being a stable factor in africa. the enormous impoverishment of large sections of the population, accompanied by the enormous spread of aids and also by drugs and trafficking, must really worry us. don't we know that poverty and lack of existence are a cause of crisis in africa right now? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we've had this discussion long enough. we also discussed another matter, namely, no arms exports to countries where poverty can disturb social peace! unfortunately, the council has not kept that promise in the european parliament. sweden, together with germany, the united kingdom and italy, is supplying south africa with arms worth 43 billion in domestic currency. the swedish government has apparently forgotten all the proposals that have been made here, namely to present conflict prevention programmes without arms exports. and not only that! the whole thing was also set up by a bribery scandal involving the south african government. this shows that the code of conduct on arms exports that we have is still lacking and that we are still unable to use it as a tool for real conflict prevention. we have to work on that! there must be clear criteria and transparent mechanisms to ensure that this does not happen again!
- mr president, i have to go. i can once again join the previous speakers in saying that our future neighbour belarus is still further away from democracy, and democracy is the basis for living together in europe. we are concerned to note that even the four basic conditions we set for the preparation of the presidential elections are not being met. the opposition is still being persecuted and criminalized. it still does not have free and fair access to the media, especially state television. the disappearance of persons has not been solved, especially the fate of mr koncha and the russian cameraman zawadski, who are now being commemorated by journalists. i would like to draw particular attention to the case of professor bandaschewski, who has been working for years to educate the population in the areas affected by chernobyl. because he spoke the truth and because he opposed the resettlement of these areas, he has now been sentenced to eight years in prison. you have to imagine that! we cannot accept that! belarus has repeatedly posed a challenge to european diplomacy. we must be critical where necessary, but we must also be supportive where possible. belarus is of strategic importance to the eu, and we must therefore do everything we can to ensure that democracy returns to this country.
- mr president, i have to go. in belarus, there is more to it than the situation in a country, however important. it is about the development of the whole of eastern europe. the pope was now in ukraine, and there was a heated debate. but not between the denominations, as has always been claimed, because the pro-european forces of all the denominations welcomed his visit, while anti-europeanists criticized him. russian patriarch alexei has gone to belarus not to criticize the suppression of human rights and religious freedom, but to campaign there, with the support of the state, for the restoration of state unity between russia, ukraine and belarus. this example shows that there is a major political shift underway. the european union is also committed to the development of the belarusian economy, and the belarusian people are not only interested in the development of the economy, but also in the development of the economy. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but a party to the peace process. it is very important - and i would like to support mrs schroedter in particular, who is working very hard on this - to ensure that prisoners of conscience are released, that political prisoners are released, that the opposition finally gets fair opportunities and that genuinely free elections can finally take place in belarus, so that this country can return to where it belongs from the beginning of its history, namely to the european community! (applause from the centre)
- madam president! - what is it? i have only come to speak because my colleague, the baron crespo, has thought it right to speak again. i must tell you frankly that i do not think it is necessary to discuss this matter here again. but since it has been done, i would like to say a word about it. of course, the procedure for the waiver of immunity is a difficult one and we need common rules for it. but, mr barón crespo, it has already been decided that the committee on legal affairs and the internal market will deal with this. that is why your remark was unnecessary. i would like to say, madam president, that you have acted in accordance with the law and the law in all matters of procedure, and i would like to emphasize this once again. we wish our former colleague silvio berlusconi, as prime minister of italy, every success. we are confident that with italy's support we too will be moving towards a good european future! (applause from the ppe group)
- madam president, i am a little surprised that we are now deciding whether or not to have a resolution. our group had just agreed to the socialist proposal to revise the agenda a little. we have not made a formal link between the two issues, but there was no question of a resolution on genoa. mr wurtz, you have just said that you will eventually have to give an opinion on the questions that you want to avoid. we do not think that this is the right time to express our views in a short, quick resolution on the violence which we take very seriously. our group believes that the questions of violence, threats and the dangers of globalisation should be analysed very carefully by parliament and should not be incorporated into resolutions by means of hasty or haphazard decisions. we are not going to vote on a resolution because we see the danger of this happening, and we support what the conference of presidents decided last week - my colleague mr provan was there for me - that we are going to have a debate and talk about all the aspects, but that we are not going to speak now in a hurry about the content and about violence, but that we are going to do so calmly and with all due care. we are therefore opposed to a resolution on genoa for very good reasons. (applause from the centre)
- madam president! - what is it? i thank you for giving me the opportunity to reply to my colleague so quickly. i would like to express my sincere congratulations to him on this great success of the english national team and at the same time to tell my colleague mr ferber, who is unfortunately absent, that the overwhelming majority of german players come from bavaria! (cheers and applause)
- madam president! - what is it? i would just like to add to what mrs morgantini has just said. the ban on the peaceful demonstration on september 1st has led to the death of a man who was fleeing from the police. 500 people are still in custody. i ask you to work for the immediate release of the 500 people who are still in prison!
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the idea of creating a european society that follows the same supranational rules in all member states is almost as old as the european union itself. the societas europaea - se - is regarded as the flagship of european company law. the scientific foundations were laid in the late 1950s. in 1970 the commission proposed a statute for an se in the form of a regulation. it contained a uniform law governing all its facets. in 1989 the commission presented a completely new proposal for a regulation. social and labour law, taxation and competition law, industrial property protection law, insolvency law and company constitutional law were excluded. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the 1989 proposal was based on what is now article 95. this meant co-decision. the nice proposals are based on article 308, so parliament is only consulted. the legal basis for the regulation is article 95 as well as article 308. in the interests of democratic legitimacy and in accordance with the constant case law of the court of justice, the legal basis to be chosen in such a case should be the one which grants parliament greater powers of participation. parliament therefore reserves the right to seek a procedure before the court of justice to review the legal basis once the council has adopted it. the regulation: articles 2 and 3 provide for different types of incorporation. the capital must be at least eur 120 000. the laws of the member states on companies have two different systems for administering public limited liability companies. the monist system, as in the uk, has only one administrative body. the dualist system applicable in germany, for example, provides for a supervisory body and a management body. the european union now requires that both systems be available for free choice in each country. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to adopt the same rules for the transfer of companies and the transfer of their registered offices. in the case of an se, the transfer of its registered office does not lead to the dissolution of the company or the creation of a new legal person. the convergence of formerly separate markets requires that we finally create legal forms of organization that correspond to the new situation in europe. however, the se's structure shows considerable weaknesses. the se will be different from one member state to another. it will not be a european type se, but one with, for example, french, spanish or german characteristics. there's more to it. within a single member state, too, a variety of ses will be formed, ranging from social characteristics to co-determination. i think it is absolutely essential that the regulation should be accompanied by additional tax provisions. the reality of the se will of course also be determined by tax law. in this context, a number of amendments tabled by the eldr group are to be welcomed. i am therefore in favour of sending the se on her maiden voyage. then it will show where it needs repairs so that it can one day be built into the expected flagship!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. mr mayer pointed out that the european joint stock company project has been in the works for over 30 years. as president of the commission at the time, our colleague jacques santer brought this form of society into the debate more and more in the second half of the 1990s. he and many of his colleagues in this parliament wanted it to be a suit for global players from europe competing in world markets. the european joint stock company has so far failed in the council of ministers mainly in its ideas on the position of employees. in 1970, a regulation on this european joint stock company unilaterally provided only for the german model of participation, although participation is not an export product. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. three models were prescribed, one of which had to be chosen. there was no agreement here either. it was not until 1997 that a solution appeared. parliament made a proposal. the report was scientifically substantiated by a group of senior experts chaired by etienne davignon and signed by members of trade unions and employers' associations. you can twist and turn it any way you want: the breakthrough was achieved by using the recipe for success of the european directive on works councils, which we shall come back to in the next item on the agenda. the following principles have now been proposed as guidelines for the creation of a europa ag: flexibility, negotiated solutions, minimum standards. this is a good combination of the european union's tradition of participation. this means that in some countries participation is by law, in others by collective agreement. now there 's the combination: at europa ag, a special tailor-made suit is made in collective bargaining between the founding boards and a special negotiating body of the employees, and in the event of failure, after six months to a year, minimum statutory rights of employee participation apply. the davignon report calls them legal catch-up arrangements. the ewc directive refers to subsidiary rules. i think that is a better term, because it is an example of subsidiarity. this concept was also adopted in nice. we are talking about the nice codecision arrangements. the report by the committee on employment and social affairs makes two important changes to the council's draft. firstly, we want a different definition of the concept of participation than the council. the workers' representative body is nothing more than a special european works council for the european joint stock company, with enhanced rights, which we should bear in mind when amending the directive on works councils. but there are and will remain rights of information and consultation. the label "co-determination" would be wrong here. secondly, in accordance with the commission's original proposal, it was made clear that the procedure for electing employees to the supervisory or administrative board should be governed by the provisions in force in the member states. in germany, therefore, the direct or indirect election of the employees' members would have to be carried out in accordance with the election of the members of the supervisory board under the german stock exchange act. i am convinced that it is necessary to make no distinction in this election. the members of the german ag are elected, but the employees' representatives of the european joint stock company are not. this regulation and this directive will bring the euro-ag out of the ice of european legislation. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but we must take the first step. the aim is to review both instruments after six years and to improve them where necessary. you gotta put your foot in the door. the next gust of wind will open the door. i think that with this european model we are on the right track, also as regards the social dimension of the internal market. the european model is not a pure market economy and therefore not a pure public limited company, but a public limited company with the participation of the employees.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the reason why the european joint stock company is so important has already been explained. i don't want to say anything more about that. the circumstances in which it has come about and the problems we are dealing with here are all the more regrettable. we all know that the nice summit was not a great success and that it produced rather a meagre result in terms of the treaty negotiations. the heads of state and government felt that this joint stock company would offer us something which would, so to speak, at least make europe move forward a little bit as a small success of this summit. the commission has already done so. it is regrettable, and it is extremely regrettable, that the heads of state or government have ignored the law and the treaty by changing the legal basis, following the slogan 'we have now agreed, parliament must not be disturbed': they replaced article 95, which was clearly the legal basis for one part of the project, by article 308, and article 137, which according to the treaty text would clearly have been the legal basis for the other part of the project, they also replaced it by article 308. the result is not co-decision, the result is unanimity in the council and the government's sole decision. i personally do not believe that parliament can accept this. we have therefore, by a large majority in the legal affairs committee, changed the legal basis and restored the correct legal basis, namely articles 95 and 137. it is also interesting that this was explicitly stated in the recitals of the original proposal and that the legal services have supported this. we have followed the procedure of a codecision procedure in the discussions. i would like to warn the council that if the council changes the legal basis for this important project at its second reading, it runs the very serious risk of parliament complaining on this issue. i think we'll even win this case in court. the practical value of the project is, as far as we know, rather limited anyway. i refer you to the letter from the president of unice. we have already referred to this in the committee. we have asked for a revision of the tax regulations, and i hope that revision will come soon!
- mr president, i have to go. my group and i, who was rapporteur many years ago, say yes and amen to the regulation, but not because we are enthusiastic, because what we have here as a european joint stock company is a torso. there will not be one european joint stock company, but 15 european joint stock companies. it's a mess! i don't want to go into details. the council has confirmed what all the sparrows whistle from the rooftops: it is the real problem in european legislation. it is the council, not the commission, not parliament: the council is the problem! it is not the council's intention to take decisions unanimously, and if there is a legal basis for this - in this case article 308 - so much the better. then you don't need parliament. but we will - as mr lehne has said - examine very carefully whether this legal basis is adequate and if necessary we will refer the matter to the european court of justice. community law is passed on to the council as a new type of international law, with the difference and practical advantage that it does not need to be ratified by either the european parliament or the national parliaments. that is the council's strategy. why should this european joint stock company be attractive? why should it be accepted? it is not possible that this european joint stock company is facing the same fate as the old community patent under the luxembourg convention. the council had worked for years and days to reach a compromise, and the whole industry, all the parties involved, were not interested in it. this is not the case with this form of european public limited company. where are the advantages? why should anyone form a european joint stock company? where are the tax advantages, for example? i can't see her. i would like to make one further point: it is possible that the 10th directive on crossborder mergers of public limited companies will be brought up again after this fiasco, as a supplement, so to speak, because it will not work with this european public limited company. but, ladies and gentlemen, the 10th directive on crossborder mergers of public limited liability companies, which abolished the right to vote, was not followed up then and will not be followed up now. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that the commission will make proposals on this matter in the near future.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the violation of civil rights will be a matter for discussion later. i'd like to address the protest tonight by ten thousand mostly young people against globalization and economic power. we must take their concerns about the increasing division of the world into rich and poor and the exploitation of our natural resources more seriously than before. the european union has a special responsibility to control unrestrained economic and financial transactions, precisely because many problems can no longer be solved at national level. it has been very reluctant to do so. one of the many options we have is the legal enshrinement of worker participation, information and consultation before decisions are taken. the european joint stock company - a necessary and useful idea in the european internal market - is acceptable to us social democrats only if it involves workers and their trade unions. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the creation of a european employment agency. management alone cannot make sound decisions. the many merger failures and events at renault in vilvoorde, at danone, at marks & spencer and other companies in the past are actually good evidence for us. i would like to thank the french government from the bottom of my heart for having found a compromise and finally convinced the spanish people that this bill must be put into effect. i would like to criticise the procedure adopted by the council. i agree with the criticism of the legal affairs committee, but i would like to say, mr lehne, that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i do not think that your explanation is entirely convincing, since the council has had the support of parliament. we have also followed this procedure in committee in a rapid and constructive manner. it wouldn't have failed us. so, there was no reason to change the legal basis at all. i share the criticism and think that the council should give this matter careful consideration and also give reasons. the reason for the change in the legal basis has not been given to us until today. i would like to thank mr menrad for having brought this report to the vote with us in the social affairs committee in a rapid and constructive manner. i also thank him for taking over some of the specifications of my group. i think we can agree, mr menrad, that we do not need to adopt amendment no 12. i have recommended this to my group. finally, the call to vote tomorrow by a large majority in favour of this ship being launched - as one of our colleagues has said - despite some reservations, despite some inconsistencies, we might say. i think it would be sensible, however, to introduce legislation in time for the start of the euro which takes account of the workers and their interests. the proposed review does not have to wait six years, we can do it sooner.
the commission has already taken a number of measures. - mr president, i have to go. the council adopted the directive on the establishment of a european works council in september 1994. the commission shall report on the implementation of this directive. the commission's report is the subject of this report by the employment committee. the success story of the european works councils can be seen in terms of numbers alone. when the directive was adopted by parliament and the council in 1994, there were some 30 voluntary agreements governing information and consultation of employees in european-wide companies and groups. by now, the number has grown to over 650. the commission report shows that the european works council directive was the key driver of this development. the establishment of european works councils gives priority to solutions which are tailor-made at company level between management and the special negotiating body of the employees. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos. the vilvoorde shock at renault in brussels showed for the first time that the objective of the european works councils, namely to carry out relocations not in the form of raid commands but only after timely information and consultation of the workers involved, was not achieved in all cases. but that's the thing, where there's light, there's shadow. the directive contains weaknesses and the committee on social affairs is calling for a revision. we did not say that it should be done in 1999 or 2000, the commission mentioned 2002 when discussing the social agenda. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. in a series of talks, hearings, symposia, i heard the complaint that in some serious cases - especially with regard to the emergency consultation - information and hearing were not timely. the main focus of the report is on the suggestions for improvements to enable timely information and consultation to be made, so that the advice of the european works council can be heard and taken into account before management decisions are taken. the report calls for a more intensive consultation procedure with a view to reaching agreement. i would add today: the aim of the agreement on the further procedure. i do not say that agreement is obligatory, but i do reject, as i have done in committee meetings, the right of veto of the european works council under amendment no 5 tabled today. my report contains the more elegant solution proposed by mrs ghilardotti, namely, to hold a second round of meetings, if necessary, as the directive on european public limited companies also provides. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very important one. the right of management to engage directly with the workforce remains unaffected, as does their right to run the company. partnership and subsidiarity must continue to determine the content of the ewc directive after the amendment. these are principles of christian social teaching, which has followers in various political parties. at the initiative of the european parliament, the 1994 law provides for an ewc operating in a spirit of cooperation. the partnership is not a sedative, it wants a clear representation of interests, but also the balancing of interests in a joint discussion through information and consultation, which is also economically advantageous. the lack of information leads to insecurity, mistrust and ultimately only fear, which leads to blockage. timely information means transparency, which creates trust... (the president cut the speaker off)
- mr president, the commission was asked to examine the effectiveness of the european works council. the european works council has become increasingly important: in 1994 there were 40, and in 2001 there are 650. in this respect, the european works council has been an eminent promoter of european awareness, and the interest of workers in cross-border action, in solidarity, has been equally encouraged. however, there are problems; we have heard about it in the hearing in our employment committee. what is not clear is what is adequate information? how can workers develop alternative plans if they are informed much too late? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european works councils meet, on the other hand, usually only once a year. at least two, if not three, meetings a year must be held. you need to get to know each other better. you also have to understand the different mindsets. this is the precondition for solidarity and certainly sustainable action, and the presence of women is still insufficient. not even 10% are represented there. this requires a lot of motivation in the companies, and this must be reflected in elections. i have spoken to many works councillors, including those in my constituency. it is particularly important for them that we have more training opportunities to compensate for the lack of language skills. i am in favour of the idea of a european language course for the members of the ewc. we must also invest in the training of workers - i am thinking of accounting law, labour law, social law - and we must work to ensure that we can also say: what should be on the agenda? the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of the european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund. the rapporteur succeeded in including 75 motions in the employment committee, other motions from the industry committee and the legal affairs committee. he did indeed understand how to build bridges with us in the committee, and 38 out of 38 said yes! i hope that will be the case tomorrow when we vote.
i have to say, madam president, it is a matter of great concern to this parliament, particularly in the context of the enlargement debate. the turkish foreign ministry has issued a statement on the report by mr poos on the accession of cyprus to the european union. in this statement the turkish foreign ministry attacks in an unfair and slanderous manner a colleague who has presented his report to the relevant committee. the committee on budgets has adopted this report by only two votes against. i understand that the state of parliamentarism in turkey is not yet such that they can understand what is in this report and what responsibility, if you may call it that, mr poos has assumed. this is a report from parliament. that is why i would like to have a reaction from parliament to this unfair attack. madam president, just to give you an example of the tastelessness of this statement, it says in paragraph 1:
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have heard many resolutions in this debate today, but i think the commissioner's contribution made it clear that security can only be achieved through cooperation, by intervening in the structures and forcing the parties involved to cooperate. the formulation of resolutions is pointless in this situation. that was our european experience, too, in 1950 when we joined coal and steel to put an end to the thousand years of war between germany and france. coal and steel are now in the middle east tourism, water, energy. we must encourage cooperation projects and change our policies. we have given a large amount of aid - billions of euros - to the palestinian authority since 1993 because we wanted the oslo peace process to succeed. but when you speak to the peace movement in israel today, you notice that the mps who went to prison a few years ago for talking to arafat now say: we would not talk to him anymore. he's not stopping the violence, he's behind all the violence that we've seen last night. in such a situation, sharon could only come to power. that's why we need a new connection for cooperation. i would therefore, commissioner, disagree a little with your conclusion that these allocations of eur 10 million to the palestinian budget until november are a good thing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, we must not continue to pay unconditionally to multilateral institutions such as the united nations refugee agency unrwa. i am allowed to read to you from a textbook used by unrwa in palestinian refugee camps. it says, "the holocaust was a just and inevitable evil". it praises adolf hitler and describes the jewish power of destruction in the 1930's. if this is what is being taught to eight- and nine-year-olds, if suicide bombings are being praised, if martyrdom is being glorified, then the european union, with its values, must say: we will not finance this under any circumstances! i therefore ask you to look very carefully at what is being taught about unrwa in palestinian schools and refugee camps. our money should not be used to promote such anti-semitism and such utterances! (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank you very much for what you have said here, and in particular for the clear language you have used, madam president-in-office, which is not always found in the council's statements. they have also called murder what the israeli government does, namely the murder of opponents whom it accuses of being terrorists. in view of this, i find it embarrassing and sometimes distasteful to refer to school textbooks when you see that the orient house is occupied, that there are invasions and occupations on palestinian territory and that palestinian police stations are systematically destroyed, including human victims. if you say that mr arafat is to blame for what is happening there, you cannot be very well informed about political circumstances. all our attempts and proposals in the past have failed, the sending of observers - i am glad that mr van orden is in favour of this - all of this has failed because of the refusal of the israeli government to accept it. even the mitchell report, which we all support as a common reference point, cannot be applied because the israeli government under mr sharon is trying to interpret the mitchell report and determine when it should be applied. in view of this situation, i am no longer calling for greater involvement in the process. we want to, but we're not accepted. what else do we have in our hands? we have a treaty with israel and we have to consider - mr commissioner, you have mentioned this in the past because of breaches of treaty - whether we can maintain this treaty or whether we have to suspend it.
counsel. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking all those who have taken part in this debate, not only for expressing their views and clarifying them, but also for expressing their feelings and emotions in the face of the tragedy in the middle east, including, of course, the horror that occurred yesterday. ladies and gentlemen, i understand only too well that in the face of the seemingly endless succession of acts of violence and violent reactions, how great is the temptation to give in first to emotion, whether positive or negative. it is deeply human and if such a reaction were absent, we might ask, where is our humanity? but i believe that if we want to contribute to a solution, we must be able to control these emotions and go beyond them. we must also be able to control frustrations - and god knows if there can be any in this kind of echternach procession where we take three steps forward, two steps back, and sometimes two steps forward and three steps back - and we must always start again, pick up the thread, never break contact with one another, or with each other, handle - excuse the cruelty of the expression - the carrot and the stick, depending on what the circumstances seem to command. i believe that is what all the institutions of the european union, including of course the presidency, are trying to do, knowing full well that by working day after day to try to safeguard the chances of a solution, the risks of displeasing neither side are very great. i would like to corroborate the remarks of those who have pointed out that the european union in this region of the world so close to ours plays a much more important role today than it did a few years ago. but there were also very many of you who said that no solution could be found without the very active, very dynamic contribution, much more than it is now, of the us administration and other agencies or other governments. finally, and i will end with this, madam president, i would like to make it clear to those who have criticised the concept of equidistance, which is of course their right, that maintaining one's position at an equal distance from others does not mean that they are considered to be in the same position. to put it in english, and these will be my last words, "equidistance is not equalising the parties involved".
madam president, i have a question for the president of the council. there are reports in the press today that the prime minister of israel has not received the high representative of the european union. so mr. sharon has not seen mr. solana. can the council give us any more details? is it because there was no time because prime minister sharon went to moscow, or was there a political intention not to receive the high representative? is the council aware of this? i'd like to know.
, chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are holding this annual debate to support the candidate countries, the commission and the council in their negotiations to bring about enlargement as quickly as possible and to admonish one or the other because progress in some areas is not as we would like it to be. we would like to point out that we are the ones who have to ratify at the end of the day. we believe that the enlargement process should not be subject to any further delay. we should all create our internal conditions, institutional and otherwise, so that the candidate countries do not become hostages to our own reform process. we should make it clear that all candidate countries are treated equally and that is why countries like hungary and the czech republic are given the number of seats in the european parliament that they are entitled to. we should also make it clear that there is no one outside the candidate countries and the european union who can influence the enlargement of the european union. this is a matter for the european union and the candidate countries alone. we also want to make clear in these statements that, in view of what we said last year, namely that the first candidate countries will be able to participate in the 2004 european elections, the accession treaties with those countries which are ready for this must be concluded by the end of 2002, in view of the ratification process which will then be involved. in this context, it is necessary that the individual country reports make clear where the strengths and weaknesses of individual countries lie. i would like to thank the rapporteurs of the individual country reports for their commitment to their respective countries. it is not just a matter of these countries adopting the acquis communautaire in legislation, but they must also demonstrate in the coming year that they are able to implement it administratively in order to achieve real membership maturity. we are of course aware that in some cases transitional arrangements will have to be made, both in the interests of the union in individual cases and in the interests of individual candidate countries. but we want to make it clear that the transitional arrangements should be as few as possible and as short as possible, in order to move much faster towards a single union with less distortion of competition. it seems important that economic development cannot yet be considered as assured in all countries and that this capacity for market maturity, for market participation in the european single market, as the commission has clearly stated for each country in the past year, is also another important point of review at the end of the day. we are not deliberately naming any favourites for joining the european union in our view, because we know from experience that a country that may be quite ahead today, due to domestic policy miscalculations and misdevelopments, may not be able to join next year, if it could be so close. for this reason, it is a true regatta principle, where everyone has the same chances and at the end of the day, it is measured who is able to join at what time. we should also say internally that we consider the financial issues of enlargement to be settled by 2006 under the financial regulation as it stands. i think that with phasing-in and phasing-out periods, we will be able to get this under control accordingly. the internal security of our citizens is an important issue in the enlargement process. we can therefore only encourage the commission to negotiate in these areas with particular clarity and seriousness, just as we also believe that external security matters play a major role. i believe that as many eu countries as possible should be nato members at the same time, but it is the individual decision of each country to do so. the more of them there are, the greater the chance of developing a unified european security and defence policy. we should only ask the candidate countries to do what the member states of the european union are doing today, and not include everything that is desirable in the negotiating package. they are only to fulfil what we are to fulfil today. we must not create any new obstacles. (applause from the centre) commissioner, when the euro is introduced next year, there will be more money available, and we should then have a major campaign to make it clear that the economic and political benefits of enlargement are far greater than anything we do in cost discussions. if we can extend the area of security in europe and of economic well-being, that is the greatest political achievement we can make in this decade to ensure security and peace on our continent. we should strengthen this stability accordingly. we should offer to those countries which cannot or do not want to become members of the european union today, in addition to the 12 countries with which we are currently negotiating, an alternative to full membership, so that we can bind these countries to the european union. countries like ukraine and others must not be forgotten in this process if we want to have lasting stability on this continent. (applause from the centre)
the commission. - madam president, madam president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is almost a year since the last major debate in the european parliament on enlargement. i therefore welcome the opportunity to take stock of this year and to describe the tasks still ahead. first of all, i would like to thank the european parliament, all its political groups and all its committees for their strong commitment to the eu enlargement process. you have all contributed immensely to giving political credibility to this historic project and to democratically legitimising the enlargement process. the commission is continuing to count on parliament's support in the crucial final phase of the negotiations and i am pleased to note that, according to the contribution of the rapporteur, mr brok, and the presentation by the president-in-office, there is still a large, broad and sustainable consensus between the three institutions, parliament, the council and the commission. the council of ministers of the european union has adopted a resolution on the situation in the baltic sea region. the point of no return is definitely behind us. the project is now irreversible. i do not want to go back to the controversy surrounding the treaty of nice, but i would point out that this treaty contains politically indispensable conditions for the conclusion of the accession treaties. i too have doubts whether the treaty is the best possible solution both to the question of institutional adjustment and to the combination of deepening and enlargement which many - including myself - consider necessary. but i fear that there will always be differing views on what is the best possible solution to this problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission is therefore strongly advocating the ratification of the treaty of nice here in the european parliament and in the parliaments of the member states. we are all aware that the treaty has not yet overcome the first hurdle - the irish referendum. the answer to such a referendum cannot be simply 'continue like this'. with the motto 'eyes on and through' we will suffer shipwreck and miss a great historic opportunity. enlargement must not become the victim of a growing alienation between european citizens and european institutions and decision-making processes. the response to the irish warning signal is also - but not only - a question of the right approach. perhaps the citizens of europe are demanding a more fundamental and multifaceted response. i believe that there is an intrinsic link between the debate on the future of europe and the debate on our future borders. we have to make that connection. the treaty of nice has set the stage for the negotiations to be directed towards the substantive issues themselves, something which the candidates have been urging. the roadmap presented by the commission and approved by the heads of state or government is more than a negotiating roadmap. it is essentially a self-imposed commitment by the 15 member states to find common positions within certain time limits, even in areas where there is a wide divergence of interests. it also tells the candidates that their efforts are worthwhile and that nothing is put on the back burner. after almost a year, we can say that the nice strategy has given the candidates enormous motivation and that the adoption of community law is proceeding more quickly and smoothly. at the same time, the candidates have shown more flexibility in adjusting their positions, allowing real breakthroughs to be achieved in the negotiations. the treatment of the subject of the free movement of workers is an instructive example of this. the timeframe for the first accessions was then clearly defined in gothenburg. it came at the right time. on the one hand, the progress made in the negotiations has made it possible to define the target for the candidate countries which are sufficiently prepared, and on the other hand, the decision taken in gothenburg gives the parliaments and governments of the candidate countries the political back-wind they need to mobilise all their forces and to counter the existing doubters. the idea of using the 2004 european elections as a reference point for accession was born here in the european parliament a year ago. we reached agreement on this in our debate last year. i am very pleased that we have succeeded in actually implementing this policy of the european parliament in relation to the nice and gothenburg councils. i believe that it was a wise decision not to set specific accession dates for individual countries or define accession groups in gothenburg. the basic principles of the process - namely individual merit, differentiation and the chance to catch up - work. if we adhere to these principles, we will have a natural, real accession scenario, justified only by the outcome of the negotiations. the commission will remain firmly committed to this line. i say this also to counter the notion that in the end there will be purely political decisions, political in the bad sense of the word. the commission will propose the conclusion of an accession treaty for each applicant only after it is satisfied that the applicant is sufficiently prepared and meets all the conditions. i shall therefore not speculate today on how many and which new members will be represented in the next european parliament. i can only say that today, out of the 12 countries with which we are negotiating, 10 have decided to use the gothenburg window. it would be a serious breach of trust if we now said to individual candidates: 'you are definitely in' or 'you will definitely have to wait a little longer'. we must therefore prepare ourselves internally for the possibility that we will have to accept an initial group of up to 10 applicants. this is more dramatic than it sounds, because these 10 together represent some 75 million citizens, while all 13 candidates together represent at least 185 million inhabitants. the president-in-office of the council has already indicated how far we have come in the negotiations. in fact, i can confirm that more important than the mere compilation of the figures is the question of the substance of the individual chapters. it is conceivable that countries which have completed fewer chapters than others may nevertheless have made more progress in preparation.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would first like to address a word to the council. i would like to ask you, mr president, to take this matter very seriously. however, the date for this debate was negotiated at great length to enable the president of the council, mr louis michel, to be here. then we agreed on this tuesday. now he has remained in durban, which i do not want to criticize as a separate process, but i would like to say that the council must be reformed, that the foreign ministers are the wrong people, not only because eu policy is not foreign policy, but because the foreign ministers have no time at all to fulfil their obligations in the european union! we will be talking about governance - mr prodi will be speaking about this later - and the change must start in the council, not only in terms of transparency, but we also need new structures so that the responsible members of national governments are also present here in parliament at all times. in other words, to put it more concretely, mrs neyts-uyttebroeck, if you had full control over european policy and were not now dependent on your foreign minister, we would welcome it! so this isn't a personal criticism of you. (applause from the centre) we are very pleased that there is a large majority in this parliament, across all the political groups, including the commission, on the questions of enlargement, and we say this with all our strength: mr brok has said this too: enlargement is to the advantage of all, and we must say it in our member states too! the national politicians must also say that enlargement is a benefit for the european union today and for the candidate countries. no one would have thought 20 years ago that we could talk about the possibility of central european countries joining our community of values. this is a great historical development! i would also like to say a word of appreciation to the applicant countries, which have embarked on a major reform after 50 years of communism. it is not easy what they are doing there, and instead of always expressing certain fears about dangers in the european union countries, we should also say a word of appreciation to the people in the candidate countries for making this enormous effort. (applause from the centre) there is also a dignity of the candidate countries. i cannot understand it when heads of government in the european union countries say to the heads of government in the candidate countries: yes, we must ask for a long deadline for freedom of movement because we have national elections. the accession countries also have a dignity and a domestic political situation, and our national heads of government should also recognize this. (applause from the centre) i don't think there's going to be a mass migration. i have the figures for the federal republic of germany: in the last ten years 900 000 people have come from poland to the federal republic of germany, but 700 000 of them have also left. the commissioner is quite right: if countries have the prospect of joining the european union, their citizens do not migrate, but prefer to stay at home! it is a natural human behaviour, and therefore we should not demonize this issue, let us not abuse it for domestic political reasons. we need a great deal of flexibility on the question of freedom of movement. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on the one hand, the borders must remain open, the right to asylum must be guaranteed. the people who want to enter the union at the external borders must also be treated with dignity, and that is why we are in favour of european border control. we should be in solidarity, the countries which do not have external borders with the countries which do. a european multinational border guard would be a sensible thing to do, to show mutual solidarity. of course, we must also think of the border regions of the present european union countries, which will have problems, and i have heard from a press release that you are also showing a particular openness to these border regions. we will also increase acceptance in our border regions. i would like to draw attention to a very specific problem, commissioner, namely the developments in romania. we are very concerned that last week an opposition party, which is not represented in parliament but has a long tradition, the pntcd, was banned on dubious legal grounds, and i ask you to look into this matter, because democracy and debate on a democratic basis are a high value, and we should take this into account in the countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are heading towards the laeken summit, and when the decision is taken on the convention, on a conference, please ensure that the applicant countries are also involved in a sensible way in this process in the sense of consultation and information, because we owe it to these countries, because we will have a common future with them in the european union. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. if anyone expects a lively debate between parliament and the commission, or between parliament and the council, or even between the major parties here, i must disappoint him. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have no difficulty therefore in telling mr brok and all the others that my group will support the motion for a resolution by the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, including the enlargement reports, and all the country reports. there may be a difference of emphasis here and there, but on the whole both the resolution of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy and the country reports correspond to the principles and criteria of my group for the progress of the enlargement process. i would also like to express my support for the commission's strategy, which mr verheugen has presented today. we are firmly committed to the principle of merit in concluding negotiations with the candidate countries, and we also agree with your concept that in 2004 there can be 10 candidates who have concluded negotiations according to our criteria. it doesn't have to be 10, but it can be 10. we'll get used to it. the commission also welcomes the shift in the focus of the forthcoming reports from the adoption of eu law to the application and enforcement of eu law. this is indeed one of the most important points which we must clarify and maintain until the accession treaties are concluded. but we do not see the deadline as merely a window of opportunity for the candidate countries. we also see the 2004 deadline as a means of exerting pressure on the member states themselves, not only to see how and to what extent the candidate countries solve their problems, but also to see that the member states themselves do not create new problems for accession. that is also the point of our target date of 2004. of course we are talking - and here i share what mr verheugen, mr brok and mr poettering have said - about the risks, the burdens, the shortcomings of the present enlargement process. there's a lot of points. but if we are to win the support of the people of europe for what we are going to do and what we have to do, it is not just a matter of talking about the burdens and risks. then we must also talk about what we all gain together in europe from enlargement. let us then talk about the fact that the reform of the common agricultural policy is, of course, about financing and reform. that's right, you're right. but let us also talk about the fact that this is about strengthening consumer protection in europe. let us talk about the need to maintain food safety in the union and to further strengthen it after enlargement. let us talk about the fact that enlargement does not pose a threat to the protection of the environment, but on the contrary that in a few years' time eu standards will apply throughout europe and not just in the western part. this is also an advantage for us, not just for the eastern europeans. let us make it clear to the people of the eu that international crime and corruption can be better tackled in the european union than if the countries of eastern europe are left out, if the laws we have created to fight international crime are also applied in eastern europe. let's talk about how enlargement is good for all of us, because we continue to gain political, economic and also environmental weight in the world, in a world that is becoming increasingly globalized. that we in europe have a better chance of meeting the challenges of globalisation together than if we in europe differentiate between east and west or north and south. and economic and social cohesion, social cohesion in europe will extend to the whole of europe, and that is an advantage not only for the east, that is also an advantage for us. the funding is secured until 2006. but that does not mean that enlargement will take place at zero tariff. i certainly don't. it costs money. but the non-expansion is also expensive. it costs a lot more than the extension. it is costing europe economic, social, ecological and political stability, and above all it is costing trust. the non-enlargement of the union is destroying europe's future. we are facing a step which is comparable to the situation in 1989-90 for the whole of europe. it is not a question of a transitional period or a better or worse functioning of this or that project, programme or fund. it is not just about this or that advantage for one country or another. it is a simple matter: it is the future of all europeans. and we are only at the beginning of the debate. we also have high hopes for the belgian presidency after the failure of nice. this debate on the future of europe must not only take place in the member states, but also in the countries of eastern and central europe, cyprus and malta! (applause from the centre)
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. on behalf of my group, i would like to say that we, by a very large majority, attach strategic importance to the accession of the central and eastern european countries to the european union and strongly support this accession process. madam president-in-office, i think that when you compare this accession process with others, it is even more important to make it clear that this accession process has a qualitatively different dimension, not only in terms of the number of countries, languages, territory and population, but also in terms of history, because it is a far-reaching cultural opening to central and eastern europe that has hardly been discussed, because it is an economic and social challenge of a completely new scale, and of course also because of the far-reaching consequences for foreign and security policy. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i believe that there are some serious shortcomings in government policy and in commission policy too, although i do take note of the dedicated work of commissioner verheugen, the progress of the negotiations and the great support of the eu for the accession process. i would like to highlight five questions: firstly, i think that the level of citizen involvement is very low. secondly, the opportunity of enlargement to the east for overcoming the crisis of nice and for a democratic and social design of european integration is hardly being pursued. thirdly, i do not think that the equal rights of the applicant countries have been sufficiently achieved. this concerns the question of the too long transitional periods for the free movement of workers, which has already been raised, as well as the uncertainties that are looming for transfers to agriculture. fourthly, the commission's recent decision to finance the border regions is, i must say, irresponsible. mr verheugen, you made quite different promises in the regions concerned a year ago. that's how they measure you there, that's how i measure you. but above all, you know very well that, and others have already said this, enlargement must be experienced directly in these regions. if we want it to be an economic, social and political success story and not a breeding ground for nationalist sentiments, we must change this position. fifthly, i am completely dissatisfied that the number of czech and hungarian members of this parliament was decided undemocratically in nice and that it has not been changed. mr hänsch, i was also surprised to find that in the committee on foreign affairs my amendment on this subject to the report on the czech republic was supported by the european people's party and others, but not by the majority of the social democrats. i do not know whether this is a reflection of the national governments who have decided this. in any case, we should agree that parliament will be uncompromising in demanding a change on this issue. i would like to thank all the members for their reports, including mr brok. i believe that a critical and thoughtful attitude has also been expressed here on some aspects of the eastern enlargement strategy. i would also like to point out two differences which are also partly relevant to other reports. the first is the stereotypical orientation towards economic and social deregulation and privatization, which in my view has led to an unacceptable degree of social division and destruction. secondly, this concerns the report by mr brok. if it says that eu and nato enlargement are useful complementaries, i would argue that the eu's eastward enlargement also offers opportunities for a productive and cooperative shaping of the european-russian relationship. but nato enlargement, particularly in the context of the current us and nato policy, is, in my view, nevertheless associated with serious and sometimes unpredictable dangers. in conclusion, mr commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council, i would like to say that i am very much looking forward to the citizens being able to experience and to help shape the enlargement of the european union, not primarily through glossy pamphlets, but through a democratic social and ecological reality that is their own.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not wish to make a statement of vote. i am only here to listen to the explanations of vote of my colleagues, especially those of mr fatuzzo, and i would ask you to do something about this noise. this is an intolerable lack of respect for those who are giving explanations of vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. one of the good results of the nice treaty is the european company act, and we are now talking about employee participation in the context of the menrad report, which i welcome. my only concern is that, with the continuous expansion of workers' rights and precisely when we are lowering thresholds, as is done in this report - from 1 000 to 500 employees - we are also overburdening the europa ag with the application of this codecision. this europa ag is to bring businesses to europe. the european site is to be made more open, strengthened by this new form of society. it is therefore very important that we also, and especially with regard to the issue of participation, maintain a certain balance and do not question these companies in such a way that, with these new rights, they are simply no longer interesting for those who want to come to europe or who want to become more mobile in europe with this europa ag in the internal market. i think that this has not been taken into account sufficiently, and i have therefore spoken out against it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i wonder where the commission is going to stay - the commissioner is here, we have missed you already - and whether the council will not also take part in this important national debate today, which is actually the substantive debate on enlargement. i am very disappointed that this does not seem to be the case. perhaps you could put that in a corresponding letter. i think it is unworthy of this parliament that this important debate on the countries, which is a really central part of the enlargement process, is not being followed by the council.
the rapporteur. the commission is not i am sorry that i cannot yet welcome the council, although i have a lot to say. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the debate on direct aid to agriculture or the future distribution of the structural funds sometimes ignores the fact that the project to overcome the division of europe is of historical importance and has a significance by which europe is also measured in the world. further petty discussions of delay are not only damaging to the project but to europe as a whole. i therefore call on the council, together with parliament and the commission, to do everything possible to ensure that the first members can take part in the european elections in 2004. given the state of negotiations, it is realistic that it will be 10 countries. this also means that not just one baltic country, but all three will be there. if there are further delays in enlargement, there is also a risk that the negative impact on the population in our countries will lead to problems. the situation of increasing relocation of farms to the eastern neighbouring countries is already intolerable because of environmental and social dumping. but the eu's environmental and social standards can only be enforced if there is real membership. i will give you just one example from latvia: i find it incredible that eu companies in latvia can afford to boycott the social dialogue and the commission simply looks on. it is a feature of the enlargement process that the existing rights of citizens to participate do not play a role. we are not in favour of the idea of a single currency, but we are in favour of a single currency, and we are in favour of the idea of a single currency. mr verheugen, you spoke of the positive attitude of national minorities towards enlargement. i cannot say that for the russian minority in latvia. there is no social debate about the successes and problems of the enlargement and accession processes, nor is it a joint process. the communication strategy is a separate project between east and west and as such is structurally flawed. it prevents us from getting to know each other. how many people in the west know about the european treasures in the baltic cultures, how many really know what is important there? in our countries it is a matter of course that projects in rural and urban areas are developed from the circle of those concerned. in the candidate countries, it is a top-down process, managed by the commission. why do they not attach the same importance to the quality of participation as is required here by the member states? in latvia too, the greatest weakness is the administration, and an administration is only strong if it is a service institution for all citizens, regardless of social status and language. it must be able to organise and implement participation processes. latvia, as a predominantly rural country, is particularly affected by the nonsense that the failed eu agricultural policy is now being exported to the candidate countries. it must be a joint project to convert direct aid into environmentally and socially sustainable structural development. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of consumers in respect of the use of electronic communications networks. i would like to stress once again that the social dimension is completely lacking in this whole process. it is an illusion to believe that social transformation processes can be managed by free market forces alone. we cannot ignore the worrying gap between rich and poor. but we could reduce them if the idea of a europe for citizens, regardless of their geographical location and social status, were understood as a common political task.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would like to say something about the czech republic, about the content of the report. if you have read it, you will also see that the criticism that came from the right wing at the end of the debate this morning is unjustified. i think that is a very good point. allow me to comment on recent developments. the czech republic has revealed last week that its government has a very ambitious programme, which aims to meet the accession criteria by june 2002 and thus consider the accession negotiations concluded. so far, 19 of 31 chapters have been completed, and six key chapters are to be completed by the end of this year. commissioner verheugen has rightly said that the fulfilment of chapters is not the only thing that makes a country happy, nor is it an indicator of how far a country has come. the czech republic is on a very good track, however, and we should not believe those who are disorienting the population in the country. only last week a leading czech politician claimed that the european union is a rigid, cumbersome and costly affair. let me analyse these three terms, mr president, which are often misused. the european union is not rigid. if there is one constant in this european community, which is today the european union, it is the desire for change and the possibility of it. the european community has been constantly changing since the 1950s, and we are faced today with the possibility and the need to expand this union once again. so anyone who says that this body is rigid does not know what he is talking about. secondly, the gravity. you can't mix two things up. the european union is a large body, of course, but it is nevertheless capable of manoeuvre. it is like a large ship sailing across a vast ocean. it is manoeuvrable, and yet it is large, as is the european union. the decision-making process is certainly long in the european union, and sometimes even tedious, but what can one expect in a community of 15 sovereign states, where each state - and not least the smaller ones - is asked what its situation is? so everyone has a say, and that should be kept in mind in these circles in the czech republic. so it is not a serious matter, the union. it's not rigid. the third argument, that it is costly, is the least valid in itself, because the reforms and the transformation process would have to take place in the countries that have freed themselves from communism anyway, regardless of their accession to the european union. the european union has two options: either it receives money or it pays money. those who receive money - and the czech republic is already one of them - should not complain at all. the people who put money into the european community, or the european union, have shown in the development of the last few decades that they are quite good at putting money into the european community, because it somehow comes back to them. so these three arguments are simply populist, to put it mildly. i would like to conclude by saying that there are also things in terms of cost that cannot be evaluated and explained in marks and pence or in euros. one thing that those in the czech republic who say the eu is bad has been forgotten, and that is the desire of the founding fathers for peace in freedom. this is something that has prevented wars and, by the way, expulsions. the czech republic is on the right track, despite some of the things that have been explained in my report, for example, with regard to temelin. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to conclude by making a remark which i made in my report last year. i come from saxony, a neighbouring country of the czech republic. i have been in the same boat with the czechs in the past, in socialist times, and i want to do so again in the future, but in a different boat, a boat in which the czechs are allowed to share the tax. however, no one in the czech republic should think that it is only the czechs who decide where the boat goes, because it is not the european union that wants to join the czech republic, but the czechs who want to join the eu. but the czechs will certainly be there to help steer the course of the european union in the future. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the economic and political benefits of enlargement will undoubtedly far outweigh the likely budgetary costs. this is already the case today, i might add. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we can therefore assume, on the basis of the experience of the pre-accession programme, on the basis of the reception capacity, on the basis of the administrative structures of the new member states, that there will be a gradual integration into the community programmes of both the agricultural policy and the structural funds. but based on these facts, it also means that we can finance the financial challenges of enlargement until 2006, even if there is a big bang of ten new countries by 2006, within the financial perspective as agreed in agenda 2000: in the agricultural policy in the final phase, eur 7 billion in the case of gradual integration, in the structural policy from eur 6.1 billion in 2004 to about eur 10.9 billion, and this with a current preliminary draft budget of the commission of about eur 100 billion for 2002, to make the relationship clear. but there is no doubt that we will have to discuss the question of the revenue and expenditure of the european budget for the period after 2006, also taking into account future world trade commitments, because in the final phase of 2013 these comparative figures could amount to eur 17 billion and eur 26 billion respectively. let us not look only at these two blocks of budgetary policy. i am very concerned and i wonder whether the commission's reflections on how to govern europe, and the concrete planning in this house to deal with the language problem, really meet the requirements to ensure european national identities, the ability of european institutions to act in the interests of the citizens of a larger european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the rapporteur, mrs schröder, on latvia's application to join the european union, has made very important and correct observations. you seemed very critical to me, too. so let me now put two positive accents that perhaps make the whole picture a little more friendly and, i think, also more realistic. in many reports - and in the report on latvia's application - there is a statement at the beginning which is simple, which is important, but which is not taken for granted. latvia fulfils the political criteria for membership of the european union. that simple phrase stands for great achievements, achievements that deserve respect and recognition. in view of the difficult starting point and the complex conditions, the fulfilment of the first copenhagen criterion is an extraordinary result. this is particularly true of the three baltic states, which, compared with all other candidates, were the most pressed into the totalitarian structures of the former soviet union. this is particularly true of latvia, given the complex ethnic composition of its population. the systematic and continuous efforts of parliament and the government to promote the social integration of all the inhabitants of the country, especially in the face of this tragic historical background, deserve our respect and support. latvia is also an excellent example of how a clear political perspective can enhance and accelerate social and economic development. the accession negotiations were formally opened on 15 february 2000. in the same year, gdp grew by 6.6%, and in the first quarter of this year it reached 8.2%. these are just a few of the many other indications that point to the opportunities, the opportunities for political stability and economic dynamism that enlargement offers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, let me stress that the epp group fully supports the conclusions of the wiersma report on the possible accession of slovakia to the european union. slovakia is an example of how political will enabled a country in a difficult starting position - having lost almost four years under the meciar regime compared to the other candidate countries - to successfully reach out to other countries in the accession negotiations and, with this, to resolve problems quickly. the slovak authorities have also been active in the implementation of the reform of the financial sector, including the introduction of a new system of public debt and the introduction of a new system of public debt. the accession of slovakia, which is situated between poland, the czech republic and hungary, is also necessary for the european union. this will also help to guarantee the area of freedom and security in an enlarged european union with a continuous external border. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european economic community and the european atomic energy community with the european union. this also indirectly ensures the participation of national minorities - and therefore, above all, hungarians - in over 500 municipalities. the slovak republic should therefore resolutely continue to work with the commission and us to solve the remaining problems of accession so that it can open its doors to the european union soon.
mr president, colleagues queiró and friedrich have given an excellent witness to hungary in the foreign affairs committee in relation to its efforts to join the community. hungary was the country that opened the iron curtain and also the earliest to prepare intensively for full membership. today, we are seeing that the fears of enlargement are beginning to fade, thank god. in burgenland, on the border with hungary, it was clear that the anti-enlargement forces had no chance and were losing ground. the same applies to austria and germany, as regards the czech republic and poland, although the problems are undoubtedly even greater here. but i think this is a positive development, and this development has to do with the policy of hungary, which has dealt with its minority problems in an exemplary way, which has taken a clear pro-european line, which is supported by all political parties. i would also like to make a special appeal to the czech republic, which is also very dear to my heart and which i hope will be among the first candidates for accession, as hungary is, and which will also succeed in solving minority problems and in shedding historical burdens, and on the other hand will also succeed in establishing a consensus between the political parties on political integration, which i consider to be essential. i am convinced that the so-called candidate countries - this is a word i do not like - will not become the backbone of european integration, but that hungary, the czech republic and others in particular can become the engines of european integration. the same applies to slovakia, which is experiencing internal political difficulties. but if it does, i believe that slovakia, together with hungary, the czech republic and poland, will be among those who will be driving european integration forward. that is why we should be less anxious about this project, which should not be called the enlargement of the eu to the east, but, to quote pope john paul ii, the 'europeanization of europe'. because a european union without hungary and the czech republic is not a european union!
mr president, the fact that we are debating the old progress reports so late again may have the advantage that we can still provide some current input for the new reports just before the deadline. it is not only since i became the shadow rapporteur for lithuania that i have been watching the development of the country with interest. on the one hand, i am identifying the classic problems of a candidate country which are not particularly country-specific and therefore do not need to be highlighted again. i would like to highlight lithuania's energy policy as a specific aspect in which we, as the eu, are also investing a lot of money. the whole area has already cost a head of government his office there three times. first of all, the question of ignalina, which has already been raised by mr souladakis. i think we must also ensure that, in the implementation of the exit process, the local people are informed at all times and in the best possible way about what is actually planned, including their own perspectives in this relatively remote area. i am not sure that this is the case. the result is that some lithuanian politicians, who admittedly do not have any responsibility for government, are giving people false hopes and are irresponsibly trying to win votes. it also triggers anti-eu sentiment because it is a very simplistic debate. in the process of privatisation of the oil and gas sector, some public discontent was also caused by the fact that western investors behaved like in a banana republic. then there is no longer any clear distinction between eu and american foreigners. you become skeptical of western capital. the so-called national solutions are then easier to implement. in reality, however, russian money is often hidden behind supposed national solutions in lithuania. i just want to make sure that all the stakeholders inside and outside lithuania are aware of this and keep this fact in mind in their political and economic decision-making processes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is perhaps a good opportunity and an honour to be the last speaker in such an important debate, and i think that this debate has shown, by the example of romania, to which i would like to refer, the possibilities of the european parliament. as a former national deputy, i know that the possibilities for a national deputy are very limited. what baroness nicholson of winterbourne has done in romania with her report, with her hard work, has moved something in that country. the commissioner has already acknowledged this this morning, and i think we are also acknowledging this to the many groups of visitors who ask: what possibilities do you have in the european parliament? i think we should be able to give an example. at first, the romanian leader reacted as perhaps all the world leaders do. he said: mr verheugen assured us that this is only the european parliament; you must talk to the commission, then you will also become a member of the european union. i'm sure mr verheugen never said that. it was mentioned in all the romanian media, but it was later recognized that it is good to respond to the reports of this parliament, to the opinion of this parliament, and we have reached a legal status on the issue of orphans, including the issue of homosexuals in romania, which must now be implemented, and this was not foreseeable a few weeks ago. let me make a comment on a matter on which there is disagreement in this house. there is an amendment by the socialist group and mr sakellariou on the question: should euro-atlantic structures be mentioned in this report, yes or no? the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy has said: yes, if romania wants to join the euro-atlantic structures, we want to support that too, and i think it is very important that we do so, particularly in the case of romania. we know that romania will not join the european union in the first round in 2004, and it would be all the more important if the north atlantic alliance decided in 2002 to invite romania to join. this would lead to stability throughout europe, and that is why i ask you to reject this motion tomorrow and to follow the foreign affairs committee.
- i have received, pursuant to rule 37 (2), a motion for a resolution from the committee on foreign affairs. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. i am glad that the president is now taking personal responsibility for the debate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is now a year and a half since you, mr prodi, declared the reform of european governance to be one of the commission's four strategic objectives. it is an honour for you to want to give your commission a personal brand, as former commission presidents have done. i fully support your desire to finally take action to reduce the gap between the union and its citizens. i think that is the view of the vast majority of this house. finally, we all want the citizens' europe to become a reality rather than a slogan. with all due respect to your concern, mr president of the commission, i must tell you quite frankly that i am disappointed with what has happened. i handed the white paper to the citizens and asked them what they thought of it. you know what the problem was right away? in that they didn't understand what was written on over 40 pages of text. that is all eu-chinese, i was told. how, i wonder, is the gap to be bridged if the language itself does not reach the actual recipients? the white paper does contain positive approaches, such as strengthening the role of the esc, the committee of the regions and the consultation of civil society organisations. i would like to ask a few critical questions, however. the basic political problem of the white paper is, in my view, clear from the outset. it says that people think the union is incapable of acting where action is needed, for example in the field of unemployment. this problem analysis is simply not right. citizens do not think the union is incapable of doing this, but they see it every day, and the union and its member states are incapable of doing this. mr prodi, you were quite right in your speech just now when you said that when we talk about governance we are really talking about democracy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to say a few words about the amendment of the treaty. the white paper provides for a consultation period until march 2002. the final proposals are to be submitted six months later. it seems to me a little absurd to receive proposals in the autumn of next year which are at the level of the existing treaties, when at that time we have already spent nine months working intensively, hopefully through a convention, to change these treaties. the refusal to amend the treaty which you have formulated will not, in my view, be maintained, apart from the fact that you yourself propose amendments to the treaty in the white paper. in conclusion, mr president of the commission, i think that there is a great need for discussion, also after the speeches of my colleagues, and i am offering you the cooperation of this house and myself.
commission. – mr president, since the beginning of the conflict in 1999, the commission has granted some eur 44 million in humanitarian assistance to the victims of the chechnya conflict. so far this year, three funding decisions totalling eur 18.5 million have been adopted. they cater for the most urgent needs of those affected by the conflict, benefiting idps and the most vulnerable population in chechnya as well as chechen idps in inguchetia and dagestan. this implies that in 2001, eur 18.5 million of the eur 25 million originally provided for have already been committed. in order to determine further funding needs this year, the european commission humanitarian aid office will undertake another assessment of the humanitarian situation in september and subsequently submit a funding proposal to the commission. the main objective of this forthcoming decision will be preparation for the winter. the geographic scope of the aid activities will be determined as per the identified priority needs. the minimum amount required to this end is currently estimated at around eur 11.5 million. in 2002, echo intends to continue funding operations in line with its humanitarian mandate. obviously, the scope of echo's involvement will depend on the security situation and the humanitarian working conditions. this notably concerns our operations inside chechnya where things are still very difficult for us and where we are still engaged in a so far unsatisfactory dialogue with the russian authorities concerning radio communication, access, and working conditions and security in general for the people working for our money there.
thank you very much, commissioner. i would like to ask you two questions. firstly, what is the situation with humanitarian aid for the chechen refugees in georgia? i don't think you've said anything about that. secondly, will you be going to chechnya at some point or does the commission intend to set up a permanent representation there?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to join those who have congratulated the commission on its negotiating tactics and on its success. i think it was really as the commissioner said that the minutes were saved. of course, this is not enough to solve the problems. the problems associated with climate change and what needs to be done to stop climate change are far beyond what was agreed in bonn. but it's an important first step. those who fundamentally criticise the kyoto protocol - there were some members of parliament from germany, for example, who said that the whole protocol is useless, and who also said this as an environmental politician, it is useless because it does not bring enough - must be countered, if the house is burning and you think you would need ten fire engines to put it out really well, then you can not send back the first fire engine that arrives and say, please start to put out, when all ten are there, but you have to do as quickly as possible what can be done, and always point out that further measures are necessary. the other measures are being negotiated at international level, but of course also within the european union. we must now proceed to the implementation. you have made some important announcements today, commissioner. we'll be sure to support you. we must continue to talk to the americans on an international level. i would like to repeat my request from before the bonn conference: there are many people, including those in this parliament, who are very critical of the americans for their policies in every area of policy. i think we should focus on the essentials. we should make it clear to our american friends that although we disagree on many issues, we can live with our differences. but in this area, we europeans cannot live with the americans' permanent refusal. we should tell them that over and over again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too say bravo, madam commissioner. good work! i am always amazed to see how europeans agree on the issue of climate change and measures to combat it. i believe that climate policy is also a kind of identity politics in europe. we should use this too. i also believe it's our duty to engage the american public to follow us. perhaps we are ahead of the americans in this, just as public opinion is often ahead of the europeans on other issues. i would like to address one aspect, namely the impact of this climate policy on energy policy. the key thing about this climate policy is that in the future we will put a price on co2. let's say you're right about your estimate that co2 costs about 30 euros a ton. then this means that electricity from lignite will be 3.5 euro cents more expensive, electricity from coal will be about 3 euro cents more expensive. renewable energy is not becoming more expensive, that is, it is becoming more competitive. but nuclear energy will not get any more expensive either. the fact that it is not exempted from emissions trading but only prohibited under joint implementation is also an advantage for nuclear energy. so we're getting a whole new weighting within the energy spectrum. that is not the theme of tonight, but it will be the theme of the next months and years. i wanted to draw attention to it. i also share the view of many of my colleagues who have said that it is a process. we have started it now and we must continue it. i think it's a very good thing that i was there!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the regulation establishing a european aviation safety agency was welcomed by all the political groups in the committee responsible. in essence, three points should be taken into account in this regulation. firstly, what has always been in the foreground is that, at a time when there is a liberalised air transport market and, of course, there is also a competitive pressure and, possibly, the risk that costs will have to be cut through competition: these cost savings must in no case be at the expense of safety aspects! i therefore make it very clear that the forthcoming regulation is a signal that we want to guarantee a uniform high level of security in the eu member states in the future and to ensure that it is the same in all countries. the second is, i think, an important aspect which we must not forget, even though it is often overlooked in politics. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport sector is not affected by the introduction of the single market. in future, therefore, it will not be necessary for individual member states to repeat what others have already done, but there will be a single body in the european union for this purpose, namely this agency. i would also like to stress the third point very clearly. we are creating an institution that is very similar to the one the americans already have. we all know that the faa has a relatively large influence, even worldwide, because it represents a nation that is a strong economic power. we europeans are lagging behind, of course, because when the individual nation states come into play, it is not as impressive as when a closed unit, that is to say, an institution supported by all the member states, comes into play. so i think this is the right step in the right direction. the commission's proposal to us was discussed in committee at several meetings and we tried to improve certain points, i do not want to say improve them, because it always sounds as if the person who prepared the document did something wrong. we have tried to facilitate the commission's decision to give the agency more independence because we believe that such an agency must be committed to promoting aviation safety and we have tried to ensure that it can enjoy a high degree of independence. now we all know that the treaty situation makes it impossible to have a completely independent agency, but we do think that the commission should follow the lead of the agency in that it is only carrying out a kind of legal supervision and perhaps in certain sub-areas a kind of expert supervision. that is why it was right to say that we wanted an independent agency, and i think it was also important that we said that the board of directors on the one hand must be strengthened in its competence and the executive director on the other hand must also be given a position which gives him a certain independence as head of such an agency. i think that another point i am making here is also important. we have tried to establish a clear division of responsibilities within the committee. we have not deliberately taken up the commission's proposal as a parliament and said: we accept the offer to sit on the administrative board in the future, but we have said: we want to make it clear that parliament sets the basic guidelines, the commission is the contact point for the relevant implementing rules and the agency has to ensure that the technical details are properly regulated. let me summarize, because my time is running out. i think that this regulation is a step in the right direction. we are making sure that the european level is dealing with an area which interests and concerns many people, and i am very clear: not only airspace but also security must not have any borders, and that is why this agency is properly situated at the european level, and that is why i am calling for a broad consensus to be reached on this report tomorrow.
, acting on behalf of the draftsman of the opinion of the consultative committee on budgets. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, we should like to thank the rapporteur. the commission's proposal for a european aviation safety agency was a response to a longstanding request from parliament. the agency for aviation safety is our second agency in the transport sector, a third for rail and railway safety is to follow. i think that this strategy of setting up european agencies is very appropriate to help integrate european transport markets. the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism has already made some important changes to the agency, such as strengthening the agency and increasing its independence and its remit. it is also important to me - and i am speaking here on behalf of my colleague mr kuckelkorn - that we accept a proposal for amendment by the committee on budgets concerning financing. we must ensure efficiency, transparency and cost control. with the two agencies, we now have the opportunity to follow a clear line from the very beginning. my group has tabled further amendments. the first concerns the composition of the administrative board. we demand that employers and employees also have a seat on the board. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union. we expect the member state which will host the agency to make a financial contribution. the aim of this regulation is, among other things, to prevent a member state from pressuring its agency - that is, the agency established on its territory - to set up branches. i am convinced that this is a legitimate and justifiable concern of parliament and i therefore appeal to you to support it.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs and internal market. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the committee on legal affairs and the internal market has examined the proposal for a regulation with great care. it is of course in favour of the creation of such a european aviation safety agency. however, we do find that we need to harmonise to some extent the legal framework under which such agencies are set up. there are a great many agencies being set up here: the air safety agency, the food agency, the pharmaceutical agency. it is time to create a clear legal framework for the operation of such agencies. the two previous speakers have already touched on some aspects. i am very grateful that the commission has announced in its white paper on governance that it will take a somewhat clearer line on this. in fact, the creation of such agencies is of course not without its significance, since decisions are being delegated to external bodies, even if - dear colleague schmitt - not all final decisions are, of course, taken by these agencies. it is particularly important to us that the supervisory bodies be filled on an equal footing between the various european institutions, and that the european parliament does not lose its right to influence decisions by outsourcing them. it is also important to us that the legal remedies created by these agencies in the context of the procedures are also in line with the european treaties and the principles of the rule of law. another particular concern is that the powers of intervention that are being created for the agencies are in line with the fundamental rights of citizens, which we have agreed to in the charter of fundamental rights. we have tabled amendments to this effect. we are grateful that they are at least partially recorded.
mr president, madam vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, just as my colleague ojeda sanz thanked mr collins for his excellent report, i should like to thank mr schmitt for his excellent report. both have presented us with a great deal of work. as regards the question of aviation safety, commissioner, after the completion of the internal market and the abandonment of the subject by other commissioners, you have now put before us this proposal for the establishment of common rules for civil aviation and the establishment of a european agency for aviation safety. we can now finally replace the safety regulations which have hitherto been adopted bureaucratically between the member states with uniform european and parliamentary rules. we can finally create a truly unified european security area in the european sky. we hope that security will be increased, in particular, by strict and uniform controls. we therefore support your proposal. the committee's proposals, as mr schmitt rightly said, are intended to further strengthen the technical independence of the european aviation safety agency without reducing your personal parliamentary responsibility. we hope that this new agency will be able to start work quickly enough to certify the new symbol of the european independent aviation industry, namely the new airbus a380, which is the joint work of many employees, many engineers, many workers in the european countries, that this symbol of the independent aviation industry is the first aircraft to be uniformly certified for european airspace. if we succeed, then i believe we have achieved a great success both for the aviation industry and for safety.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats will support the commission's proposal. firstly, the objective of the eco-points system has almost been achieved. the objective was to reduce the total nox emissions of trucks in transit through austria by 60% by the end of 2003. in 2000 we had already reached 56%, which means that we are well on our way to achieving this treaty target by 2003. secondly, the ecopoints system itself is not attacked by the commission's proposal. the 60% reduction target was maintained. the commission is explicitly in favour of continuing the eco-points system. the only thing to be done is to abolish the so-called 108% rule. this rule runs counter to the very purpose of the eco-points system, which is to protect the environment by reducing nox emissions. it will remove the incentive to buy and use low-emission trucks. the 108% clause sets a ceiling on transit journeys and provides for penalties for exceeding it. however, this clause only applies if the trucks have emitted 8% less per year. that is a contradiction in terms. that's why this doesn't make any sense. thirdly, the reduction of eco-points does not reduce the overall traffic through the alps. this is either transferred to switzerland or converted to bilateral traffic to and from austria or carried out by eastern european trucks which are also not subject to eco-points on the basis of another authorization. this will ensure that we do not reduce the nox emissions in austria any further. fourthly, the penalties under the 108% rule are disproportionate. the number of journeys exceeding 100 000 in 1999 was punished by a reduction of 150 000 in 2000. the last point i would like to make is that i do not think that there is any basis for doubting whether primary law - in this case the accession treaty - can be amended by secondary law, that is, by a commission proposal for a regulation as we are discussing it today. protocol 9 explicitly provides for a review of the eco-points system in 2001. on this basis, the commission proposal is also legitimate. i therefore call for the 108% rule to be abolished and for the commission's proposal to be accepted without amendment.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the eco-points system was agreed upon when austria joined the eu. so we are talking about an existing legal contract that expires in 2003. the objective was - and this has been mentioned - to reduce the use of environmentally friendly lorries in alpine transit by austria and to reduce nox emissions by 60% compared with 1992, and this is almost achieved. the convention also set a maximum allowable ceiling for transit journeys the so-called 108% clause . the commission now wants to suspend the 108% clause until the end of 2003. the rapporteur, hannes swoboda, rejects the commission's proposal, and i share that view, although there is a conflict of interests between austrian and, for example, german interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to point out three problems, and i have done so with my amendments. the first is to calculate the number of trips correctly. the statistics are not always reliable, but they are often used to estimate the number of journeys between the two countries. it is therefore necessary to ensure that the number of journeys is calculated correctly so that penalties are not imposed in error. that brings me to my second point, the sanctions. in 1999, this was also mentioned, the number of transit journeys exceeded 100 000 and this led to a reduction of 150 000 journeys, thus to a fine. i think that the current sanctions mechanism is excessive and wrong, because it affects individual transport companies, even though it is a state action. we need to act. third and last, our overall transport policy objective is a sustainable transport system that allows sustainable mobility. the commission has, however, failed to present a coherent overall approach for the alpine region from 2003 onwards. this is urgently needed!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the treaty provides for adjustments and it is proposed here to adjust the law on a single point. so this isn't about breaking the contract. if the liberal member is complaining that we are not treating the environment properly and she is calling for environmental protection, i would ask the austrian member: when will you provide the money to build the brenner base tunnel? then you're doing something for the environment! we are already far too late in implementing the brenner base tunnel. this is the only real solution for the alpine transit. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that would be your job in a government in which you are represented! we don't need to create a legend! mr stockmann has said so much right, namely that the main objective of reducing nox emissions is actually almost achieved and that the 108% clause is disproportionate and inaccurate. mr stockmann, if you vote with us tomorrow in favour of the commission's proposal, you will achieve exactly what you want to achieve! i can understand that you do not want to fall behind your austrian rapporteur, but think about how you will vote tomorrow. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal. two brief remarks. if the clause were to be maintained, it would only result in not changing the real volume of transport to be transported, but in replacing transit journeys which are no longer possible by a journey with one trader into austria, transhipment, and with another trader out of austria. this means that you would split the transit, you would have more emissions, you would have more costs for the consumer - that is not the solution! the solution is to build the brenner base tunnel to bring the transport of goods from road to rail in the long term. we have to fight for it!
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank mr ruffolo very much for taking the initiative in the first place, because if he had not done so, we would not have an own-initiative report and we would not be able to leave it out today and we would not be able to ask for budgetary resources. so thank you very much. the report was adopted by a large majority, it comes at the right time and it is certainly a political challenge for all those involved. i hope there are many of them on all levels. the establishment of a cultural cooperation observatory and the proposed three-year plan on cultural cooperation will ultimately be a measure of the seriousness with which politicians at all levels are endeavouring to preserve and develop the european cultural area. i am also glad that two points have been raised which i raised in my report on the situation of artists in 1992, mrs echerer. i had asked at the time that patronage be promoted more, including through greater tax incentives. i had asked - and i have done it again - to write a study on the approximation of the fiscal treatment of works of art and the work of artists. the european cultural policy is based on social cohesion and european citizenship, and the great diversity we have must be emphasised again and again. the european construction has long since left behind the economic and technical orientation. the drafting of a common cultural policy and a common educational policy are essential if the soul of europe, which has been for too long confined to economic expediency and covered by a very thick bureaucratic dust at all levels, regional, local, national and european, is to be reawakened. the citizens today simply want more of the beautiful things. the more beautiful things they have, the more they will want to go back to europe, and the more culture costs a little more. let's make some money in the budget now. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the european parliament has set up a special committee to investigate whether there is a system of interception of communications, operated by american intelligence, which has the following characteristics: it operates globally, with the ability to intercept every phone call, every fax, every e-mail in europe. it is run by a group of countries, including the uk, which is a member of the eu, and it is primarily used for economic espionage at the end of the cold war. this system is allegedly codenamed echelon. this, mr president, was a difficult task of enlightenment, because the european parliament has no access - under any circumstances - to files of eu member states' intelligence services, and certainly no access to detailed information on the activities of american services. nevertheless, after a year of careful research, we can say to the house without any doubt what follows: firstly, there is no defence system operated by any intelligence service of any state which can intercept any communication in europe. this claim must be relegated to the realm of creative journalism! the fact that it is unfortunately found in a study commissioned by the european parliament, which has been awarded a kind of quality seal, does not make this statement any closer to reality. it's not about what you believe. telecommunications obey the laws of physics, and where there is no access to communication media, there is no eavesdropping, and there is no special magic physics for intelligence! secondly, there is a very good system of interception which has the following characteristics: it operates globally and is implemented with a listening network of the so-called uk-usa states - that is america, the uk, canada, australia and new zealand. this is not a random mix, this defense alliance has its historical roots in the second world war. it has access essentially only to intercontinental communications, which are either transmitted by communications satellites or run by underwater cables that land in the above-mentioned countries. communication within europe is therefore hardly affected, while communication to african countries, arab countries and latin america is very much affected. we don't know how many messages can be intercepted on radio traffic in their vicinity, but it's clear that it's not the main part of the defense business. unlike police surveillance, which is always directed at a single person or a well-defined group of people, the surveillance system we are dealing with works differently. it intercepts any communications it can access and feeds them to a computer search engine. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive. so the system works like a vacuum cleaner, and the intelligence agencies set the filter. technically, it's called strategic telecommunications control. the search engine can collect phone numbers, voices of top targets, the content of e-mails and of typed telefax messages. handwritten faxes or spoken messages cannot be detected by this search engine for the foreseeable future, and are therefore not accessible to intelligence analysis. otherwise, we have indications that the system is code-named echelon. it doesn't matter what it's called. it can be called rumplestiltskin, but we care what it does! these are the findings, and i'd like to add that we're not just saying that. we can prove it with a chain of evidence strong enough to stand up to a jury trial. if you want to know more, you can't miss the report. i would like to make one point: if we had written something wrong, you can be sure that the intelligence services of the countries mentioned would have been happy to publicly dismantle us! but you didn't, and that speaks for itself. how do we evaluate these findings? one of the criteria for evaluating this must be: what are our own services actually doing? it is not the only criterion, but it is also one if you want to have an honest debate. most intelligence services in the majority of eu countries use strategic remote sensing. only belgium, greece, ireland, austria, portugal and luxembourg do not use this technique. secondly, the purpose for which it is used is of course also important in the evaluation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if it is used to spy on companies in order to benefit the economy, then it must be evaluated differently. thirdly, the end does not justify the means. so it's not just about the purpose, because every wiretap, every individual case is a violation of privacy. this is not a problem of quantity. human rights are individual rights, not a matter of statistics. such a breach of privacy is permissible only under certain conditions. the european court of human rights is crystal clear in its case law on this. these conditions are summarised as follows: intervention must have a legal basis, it must not be arbitrary. so there has to be a trade-off between the invasion of privacy and the purpose at hand. it must be predictable, i.e. citizens must know that such a system exists. and wiretaps should only be used when there's no other way. so it is an ultima ratio. there are colleagues here in the house who say that when it comes to law enforcement, if the police do it on the orders of a judge, then that's fine. the intelligence community says it's a violation of human rights. i have a great deal of sympathy for people who say, politically, i don't want services to do this. i can relate to that. i'm not in that position, but i can relate to that. but if anyone says that this is illegal, then he is not taking into account the case law of the european court of human rights here. economic espionage is certainly not a legitimate purpose. now all news services also cover economic issues, for example developments in financial or commodity markets. in this sense, most services are engaged in economic espionage. that is not the point being criticized either. the problem arises when, instead of clarifying general facts, details are leaked to the industry of one's own country in order to give it a competitive advantage. moreover, such behaviour between eu countries would be incompatible with eu law, as it is a form of prohibited state aid. it is more than an unfriendly act on the international stage, and between allies it is a scandal! moreover, wiretapping is not the method of choice in economic espionage, which is usually done with the classic means. but there are cases where this instrument can be used successfully. the united states was now the main target of criticism. the us has always denied that it provides intelligence directly to us companies. but you admitted that you've been listening in on the details of major international contracts. the argument and justification is that european companies are bribing and that we should fight against it. this behaviour must be - i say this now very politely and carefully - questioned. first, we know that american companies also pay bribes. in the analysis of corruption worldwide, they are in the middle of the bribery activity. secondly, this is now prohibited by convention within the oecd and the member states of the european union have transposed it into national law. if the united states of america still insists on a right of first refusal with a cowboy mentality, then that is incompatible with the idea that such things are regulated by international legal agreements. (applause from the centre) thirdly, if it is true that the american services do not engage in detailed economic espionage, why is there no law in the united states of america prohibiting the services? why not? - why not? the real political problem is basically that in the public debate in europe people are trusting the united states of america with this. the political problem is a deep-seated distrust that is becoming apparent. it's got to go! we have developed a number of proposals, including those concerning the control of services within our own countries, and a code between the eu countries and similar matters. but in the end, we come to a simple main problem. the protection of privacy is guaranteed by the legal systems of national states. but communication is becoming increasingly international. there is no state in the world that protects them. we need to find international legal agreements so that we can -- this is one of the many problems of globalization -- also get privacy protection. the second problem which i raised at the beginning of this report remains. this is a latin phrase that says, "sed quis custodiet ipsos custodes", which means, "who guards the guards?" that's the problem. (applause from the centre)
the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency has noted with interest the proposal for a european parliament resolution on the echelon interception system and will listen attentively to the debate on it. i welcome the fact that parliament is examining this matter in depth. this initiative is in line with the traditional democratic control of legislative assemblies. it reflects the concerns of many citizens of the european union about that system. i would also like to draw attention to the fact that the presidency of the council has always shown its willingness to cooperate loyally with parliament in your work in this area. both the portuguese, french and swedish presidencies have accepted your parliament's invitation to clarify their position on this matter, both in plenary sessions and in meetings of your temporary committee. it is with this view that i am here today to consider the report and the resolution of the temporary committee and to express my sympathy with parliament's concern on this subject, and you know that sympathy in greek, to refer also to the ancient languages, means 'to sympathize with'. the fact that the parliamentary bodies of my own country have also paid attention to the interception of communications - as evidenced by the two belgian parliamentary reports sent to mr schmid and mentioned in his report - strengthens my conviction that this is a complex but important political problem. i hope you will nevertheless understand that as president of the council i must confine my reaction to those aspects which concern the council or the institutions of the union in general. it is not for me to react on behalf of or in front of individual member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i said, "imagine you're the detective". you're receiving reports from various people about a terrorist bombing carried out by five perpetrators. two possible victims are at the crime scene, but they're not saying anything. the five suspects are also silent. unfortunately, the murder weapon is missing and the circumstances of the crime are unknown. so, a rather difficult case. so, at the beginning, journalists told us that there was a global surveillance system called echelon, operated by the united states, britain, canada, australia and new zealand, that could listen in and analyze worldwide communications via telephone, fax and email. citizens, businesses and institutions would be systematically monitored. what has been the result of a year of investigation? as the commissioner, i would say that the five suspects were actually at the scene, but the weapon was not a bomb, it was a sniper rifle. everyone here can operate this rifle, but the evidence only points to a perpetrator who has engaged in criminal behavior. the victims have given us tips to help us find out, but they're not willing to testify in court, so unfortunately, that's not enough to convict. but we need to keep an eye on the suspects and take other precautions. in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the name doesn't matter, but let's call it echelon. however, this can only intercept satellite-based civilian communications via intelsat satellites. but it is only a small part of the world's telecommunications and an even smaller part of private conversations. intelligence activities of this kind have also been tolerated internationally as long as it has been necessary to preserve international security interests. but evidence now suggests that the united states is using this intercepted data for purposes other than defending national government interests. the american authorities have admitted to eavesdropping on european companies applying for large contracts abroad, allegedly because they are working with bribes. the secret protocols are then passed on to the american embassies so that the responsible ambassador can lobby the sending governments against these alleged attempts at bribery. at the same time, there is an advocacy center in the u.s. department of commerce that, through these embassies, maintains a worldwide network that is solely dedicated to helping u.s. companies get big contracts. the suspicion of illegal us competitive espionage is obvious. unfortunately, the companies concerned are silent for fear of damage to their image. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur and his team for not giving in to the temptations of the greens, but also of the left wing of this house, to write a novel of conspiracy. his report is serious, factual, and gives evidence and clues without prejudice. the conclusions may not be far enough for some. but you're exploiting the legal options we have. protection against illegal non-european intelligence activities can only be achieved at a global level. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission, unlike the council or the central bank, has a medieval level of data protection and secrecy. the dangers posed by non-european countries have been clearly underestimated. the committee responsible shall therefore be asked to draw up an own-initiative report. our british friends, as europeans, are called upon to control effectively and in accordance with the rule of law american espionage against european targets from their soil, otherwise they will be violating european data protection law. i would like to thank the rapporteur once again for his cooperation. i am sure that this report will find an overwhelming majority in this house! (applause from the centre)
mr president, we have heard it a few times now: echelon exists. the question is, what is there with echelon? echelon is a surveillance system which represents a massive and global interference with fundamental rights, not only for industrial but also for all private communications. that is the real scandal at echelon, this interference with fundamental rights. what is the european parliament's position on this? the message of the report is that we condemn this system because it is mainly operated by the united states and because it works too well. what is the proposed countermeasure? the commission is proposing to set up an eu intelligence service as a countermeasure. in addition, as we know, there are monitoring standards such as etst and there are european monitoring plans known as enfopol. all this is not mentioned in this report, which is actually about this interference with fundamental rights by means of state surveillance. i think if you limit yourself, as some people here do, to the controllability of intelligence, and say, if it's democratically controlled, then we've solved the problem, but if you look around the world, and see what intelligence agencies there are, you can see that democratic control has never worked. i don't know of any country where that works. so, this is not a way out for me. i would like to make one more point on foreign policy, which has been raised many times before. if you build an eu army, the logical consequence is that you also have an eu intelligence service. however, for me this means - and i am against both - a militarisation of the eu. if we were serious about the area of freedom, security and justice, we would have to shut down the intelligence services, we would have to shut down the surveillance agencies, we would have to shut down their services. then maybe even former employees of the surveillance agencies would get advice from hackers on how to really protect themselves from government interference in fundamental rights.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, i would like to thank the chairman of the committee at the end of the debate. we had not known each other before and yet after a few days we were working together as if we had been doing so for years. it's not natural, it's not normal. thank you very much. (applause from the centre) i thank the members of the committee. we did not always agree, but the climate was perfectly human, and the cooperation was constructive. this is not always the case in this house. so thank you very much. i would like to thank the secretariat, its director, the other staff and the many people who have helped with advice and information. some of these are mentioned in the report. there are others who are not mentioned for their own sake. the thanks are no less heartfelt! (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. this is a report on terrorism. i would therefore like to turn now to what is meant by terrorism, because it is recognized as evil and often has to be used to legitimize state interference with fundamental rights. so i looked at what's called terrorism here. there is the drug trade, for example. the question of which drugs are illegal and which are legal is, as we all know, a relatively arbitrary one and cannot be determined, for example, by health policy. many people in this parliament are also heavy users of drugs. i know you're talking about illegal drugs. i'm just saying, every society has drugs in it, and that's the way it's always been, and i think it's the way it's always gonna be. criminalising is not going to help. then, for example, human trafficking is in it. if we are talking about human smuggling, which is often confused, then we must accept the fact that people are being recognised as asylum seekers in the eu who had to come to the eu illegally because we have a fortress europe here and people also have to get help from, for example, human smugglers. if we are talking about human trafficking, the essential deprivation of fundamental rights and forced labour, then the question arises why the report we voted on the other day has so little to do with the protection of victims or trafficked persons. that would be the best way to abolish such a thing as human trafficking. the report states that terrorism is also the illegal trade in arms and drugs. i 've said something about drugs . as far as guns are concerned, i think the trade in guns is illegal, but, much worse, it's illegal. the question is, is this just the illegal arms trade? is it not the same as the legal arms trade? is it not also terrorism when civilians are bombed by nato and then die or suffer for the rest of their lives as a result? there are people who resist, who take action, such as civil disobedience. they know very well that this is illegal. whether that's criminal is up for debate. many of these people are fed up with the fraud and corruption of the state, as it is written here, and they are fighting against it, and this is to be clarified here as terrorism. if the greens' proposal that the fundamental rights of the individual be defined as a common level of protection in the eu is not accepted, then, in the sense of fundamental rights, there is no other way to vote than against this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm sure we can all agree that terrorism is one of the most dangerous challenges facing our society. it is a phenomenon with worldwide structures. it can therefore only be effectively combated at international level. the fight against terrorism is also a defence of human rights and democracy. the cowardly terrorist attacks and murders we have seen most recently in spain are proof that european cooperation against terrorism needs to be stepped up. international terrorism, which is supported by dictators or islamic fundamentalist regimes, can only be effectively combated by the cooperation of the competent national authorities at european level. our house also has a responsibility here, by giving a voice to the report on the role of the union in the fight against terrorism and by making it clear that we are unanimously committed to this. i should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. the commission's proposals are intended to create the conditions for effective european cooperation between the member states so that terrorist organisations such as eta can no longer commit any more murders in spain.
madam president, i had to wait to see if the liberal group's amendment had been adopted. i am now dealing with amendment no 2. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. this danger is only mentioned in the report on poland. i have therefore tabled an amendment to the effect that this danger exists in other countries too, because otherwise it would be discriminatory towards poland. i made a mistake. it was said "in all other countries", but it must be said "in other countries". there's a different classification. otherwise, i recommend that the house accept this motion in order not to discriminate against poland.
madam president, if i have understood mr oostlander correctly, it concerns our amendment no 3. we would then withdraw it and its oral form would then be the formulation in the text.
in writing. - (de) a stronger cultural cooperation at european level is welcome - and desirable. i voted for the ruffolo report because i am convinced that closer cultural cooperation leads to mutual enrichment. by getting to know other cultures, mutual understanding between peoples for peace is encouraged. the culture and language of migrants in europe cannot but be mentioned and i ask that the european union also support its cultural creativity with financial aid. cultural cooperation in europe is a fundamental aspect of a thoroughgoing european integration. it is only by becoming familiar with the different cultures that we can really achieve the formation of a european identity for citizens. this is a point which is very dear to me, because europe is still far from the hearts of the citizens. europe is somewhere far away in brussels. europe is characterised, in addition to its unity, by its cultural diversity. it is a priceless treasure, which promotes peaceful coexistence in europe. i am committed to the idea that the peoples of europe should not only live side by side, but above all with each other.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. the commission is not the question of electronic data protection has been raised. i have heard from many forums and other media on the internet and by e-mail that there has been a great deal of excitement among users about what mrs cederschiöld said. it is logical to use an example letter to illustrate the principle of opt-in and opt-out, because opt-out is simply the delivery of e-mails by return mail. this means that users pay the fees to get on the internet. i'd be upset too. i'm not saying this is a bad intervention, but i would vote for an opt-in in the email section. i think the biggest problem with the directive is what is not regulated, namely state surveillance. it's explicitly excluded. i think this is the greatest threat to fundamental rights in the european union, and that is what fundamental rights are for, to protect citizens from the state. this is the exception. in this respect, it can only be an inadequate directive. what's left is a pretty good level of protection. but if you put that together with the view on cybercrime and the view of parliament on terrorism, you see that a lot of things are being put together and criminalized, for example the saying "anything that is illegal offline should be illegal online". that's right, we don't need a cybercrime policy for that. i have not yet been told what we need this for, what new laws it will introduce, what new crimes it will introduce that have not been covered so far. so i think this whole cybercrime thing is mainly about legitimizing new fundamental rights abuses. in conclusion, i would like to recall an anniversary which took place two days ago: 100 years ago, the typewriter was banned in turkey. why would you do that? because they were afraid that people could communicate anonymously, that the handwriting could not be identified, and that it would open the door to crime. they wanted to stop that with the ban on the typewriter. perhaps it would be appropriate to do so again!
council. - the elections on 17 november will certainly be an important event for the future of kosovo and will allow for greater direct participation of the local population and political leaders in the functioning of the provisional constitutional framework established by unmik. in this context, the council considers it essential that these elections take place in a regular manner, in accordance with european standards and with the participation of the entire population, in particular the serb minority in kosovo. however, the council of the european union plays no role in the direct preparation of these elections. this organisation is entrusted to the osce, the council of europe and the third pillar of the un mission in kosovo, better known as minuk. however, all member states contribute significantly to the budget allocated for this purpose through the osce and the council of europe and are also preparing to send observers, again in the context of the osce and the council of europe.
mr president, first of all i would like to ask whether the european union is not at least - as it does everywhere else - actively involved in financing independent media, in training politicians, in supporting democratic parties and in institution building. this is what we are doing everywhere, and i would not understand if we did not do it in kosovo. secondly, i would like to ask whether the council is planning to contact directly the elected representatives in kosovo after the elections, so that the moderate forces which i suspect will win there can actually succeed and so that the radical forces are not pursued again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i do not want to go into all the aspects which the commission's proposal for a directive on data protection in electronic communications is intended to cover. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the same applies to the work of the rapporteur, mr cappato, whom i would like to congratulate on his work. but we have a point of contention. what is our position on commercial direct mail advertising? there are currently four member states in europe with an opt-in system, where unsolicited commercial e-mails are prohibited and only allowed with the prior consent of the citizen. most other member states have an opt-out solution whereby citizens have to sign up to so-called robinson lists if they do not want to receive commercial e-mails. so we have two options now: the committee and the rapporteur's proposals 42, 43 and 44 advocate an opt-out solution as a minimum standard and are supplemented by proposal 61, which requires that this be reviewed after three years. countries that have opted in so far can continue to do so as an addition to the minimum standard. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. there are good arguments for both opt-in and opt-out, and we will hear many of these good arguments in this debate, certainly delivered with great passion. i, too, am guilty of being more of an opt-in kind of guy. however, there is only one serious choice today, and that is option i, i.e. opt-out as a minimum standard, i.e. the preservation of the status quo in the member states. why is that? firstly, in the e-commerce directive a year ago we also chose the opt-out scheme as a minimum standard, but it is to be tested after three years. it would be absurd, incoherent and contradictory if we now, after just one year, were to try to introduce a final regulation, whether opt-in or opt-out, in this directive. second, no one today can accurately predict the development. no one can say what advantages and disadvantages the two options will have in the next two years. the customs of commerce, the information requirements of citizens, but also the security needs of citizens are undergoing rapid change. the way in which retailers will react to the new possibilities of direct mail advertising is not yet clear. comparisons with traditional postal advertising may be helpful, but they are out of place. let us stick to our line so far and wait without haste and quick shots for what we have so wisely - and i would add, with an overwhelming majority - decided in this house on the e-commerce directive: minimum standard opt-out, the possibility of opt-in for member states and the observation of both procedures. (applause from the centre)
acting on behalf of the draftsman of the opinion of the advisory committee on legal affairs and the internal market. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i feel much like mr von boetticher in the previous debate. i do not want to go into details for the committee on legal affairs and internal market. we consider the report by mr evans to be a successful one and we congratulate him on that. the proposals tabled by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and adopted by the committee responsible are intended to strengthen the rapporteur's report. i can give you just one example. the committee on legal affairs and the internal market calls for the new text to require that decisions be published in future, rather than being able to be published, as the old text might suggest, but of course with the protection of business secrets. i would like to draw attention to a point which the rapporteur has just raised and which i would also like to mention to the commissioner and the qualified minority of experts who are still here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in several member states there is a special relationship of trust between the client and the lawyer. this is part of the legal reality in most member states. whenever a person needs to expose himself completely, he needs a special confidant, whether it is the doctor or the lawyer or, in a similar religious situation, the priest. the application 10 preserves this classic relationship between legal counsel and the applicant, also for the so-called in-house lawyers. the commissioner may wish to reassure that such findings from the files of such legal aid cannot have the effect of aggravating the penalty. but i do not think it is necessary to limit the punishment to the amount of the penalty and say: 'you were even advised by your lawyer to stop doing that.' because you did it anyway, it's gonna be an aggravating circumstance. this makes sense, but i would point out that such an explanation would not be sufficient, because it is only through the relevant findings, obtained through legal aid, that a fact can be properly secured. this is not in keeping with the independence of the profession and the principle of confidentiality between client and lawyer. i think you have to decide between the two. "a little pregnant" can't be in this direction.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mr nisticò has produced an excellent report, and i fully support its content. it is necessary that this directive establishes a uniform situation in the member states as regards the safety and quality of blood and blood plasma. the conditions for this are identical test and test methods up to the latest scientific standards. trained staff should ensure optimum safety for both the donor and the recipient. a transparent traceability and labelling system ensures that the path of blood from donor to recipient and back is traceable. this also helps to minimise the risk of infection. the voluntary and unpaid blood donation is a fundamental principle and should remain so. unlike mr lund, i believe that there is certainly no direct link between free or paid donation and safety or quality. the key is the selection of donors and qualified testing. however, it is not possible to exclude the possibility of compensating plasma donors in the european union for their expenses in the future. europe can only meet 50% of its own blood plasma needs. so the minus is covered by u.s. plasma, for which the donors received an expense allowance! the new directive should also not restrict the import of plasma from compensated donors. this would inevitably lead to shortages of supplies, including the medicines made from them. plasma is needed to make vital medicines, such as clotting factor 8 and clotting factor 7 for patients with haemorrhage and immunoglobulins to prevent infections in patients with a compromised immune system. a shortage would endanger the health of many patients. i would ask you to take this into account when voting.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the adoption of the charter was an important step for the citizens of the european union, although the legal reality that this adoption has now achieved is still a matter of dispute. in any case, the continuation of this important process requires further efforts at all levels. the charter, among other things, has reinforced an important triad for the citizens of the union, as reflected in the three reports presented here: petitions, ombudsmen and good administration. in this connection, i should like to thank and congratulate the three rapporteurs, mr bösch, mrs almeida garrett and mr perry, on whose report i have the honour of speaking. they have taken an important step towards consolidating this triad. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is now quite exciting to see how this network is being further developed in its various forms. the law has many instruments for translating claims into reality: constitutions, laws, regulations, decrees, and even instructions. the principle is that the more general a claim is, the higher it is to be placed in this hierarchy, and the more specific, the lower. it is therefore good that we have a code of good administrative practice and it is right that the commission should be encouraged to come forward with a regulation to this end. but then we have to be very careful in the practical implementation of what will end up in this regulation. in germany, there was a rule that said that from a depth of 80 cm, the soldier must begin swimming independently. if this is written into a constitution, then the cabaret artists will be able to make fun of such a provision. that is why it was not in the german constitution, but in an official directive. i think it's important to organize administration well. this is not just about ensuring that the right decision is made, but also about how the administration - as it were at the counter - approaches the citizen. this is very important. modern administration means that the citizen is not a beggar in office, but a customer. modern administration means that the administration does not consider itself an authority, but a service provider. it is for this purpose that it exists, and the citizen has a good right to expect good services. (applause from the centre)
- thank you very much, mr. söderman. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. membership of committees - verification of credentials: see minutes.
- the next item is the report (a5-0236/2001) by mr camisón asensio, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the proceedings of the committee on petitions during the parliamentary year 2000-2001 [2001/2010 (ini) ].
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 12 noon today.
- the report (a5-0217/2001) by mr lannoye, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the draft council directives on the simplification of the vertical directives in the field of foodstuffs: proposals for council directives on certain sugars intended for human consumption (13003/1992 - c5-0346/1999 - 1996/0113 (cns)); the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. 4. certain partially or totally dehydrated preserved milks intended for human consumption (14002/1999 - c5-0349/1999 - 1999/0116 (cns)); the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the commission has not yet received any comments from the french authorities.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i should like to use my short speaking time to comment on point 3 of the fruit juices directive. we are now increasing our efforts to provide consumers with information and education. the adult consumer, informed by labelling and marking, should decide for himself what he buys. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the labelling of products such as juice, fruit juice, nectar, concentrated fruit juice or even fruit juice makes it difficult for consumers to identify or assess the real quality or manufacturing process of a product. since 1975, the fruit juice directive has introduced or increased the consumer's awareness of the term fruit juice, and consumers have become accustomed to it. fruit juice and concentrated fruit juice are essentially the same product. the term 'fruit juice from concentrate' refers only to the manufacturing process and not to the ingredients, which must ultimately be identical. the additional term 'concentrated' is, in my view, rather confusing. product names must be clearly defined and simple and understandable. we must prevent the use of additives which are not absolutely necessary, because confusion is not consumer protection. i think that amendments nos 18, 19 and 25 represent an incomprehensible tightening of the existing legal situation, particularly for the juice industry, and i think they should be rejected. fruit for the fresh market, i.e. for consumption, may be treated with fungicides. so why not fruit for juice making? similarly, the criteria of the eu drinking water directive must be sufficient for the water needed for fruit juice production. i therefore ask the house to vote objectively and purposefully to put forward a directive which will help the consumer and which will be viable for the manufacturer.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. first of all, i would like to thank the members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, and in particular you, mr lannoye, as rapporteur, for examining the drafts of the five so-called vertical directives which have been submitted by the council. these directives concern sugars intended for human consumption, honey, fruit juices and similar products intended for human consumption, certain types of condensed milk and dried milk intended for human consumption and jams, jellies, marmalades and chestnut creams intended for human consumption. the commission welcomes the fact that parliament is following the line laid down by the council with regard to comitology and is in agreement with the replacement of the advisory committee procedure by the regulatory committee procedure. as regards the amendments to the five council drafts, the commission notes that parliament was consulted on the commission proposals in 1996 and commented on them at its meetings of 14 january 1998 and 4 may 1999. i am sorry to say that, although some of these amendments seem to me to make good sense from an editorial or technical point of view, they are, as i said, drafts of the council and not original commission proposals, and that these amendments therefore concern the council's drafts and not the commission's proposals. i therefore regret to say that the commission cannot accept the amendments proposed in the report.
- thank you very much, mr fischler. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. (the sitting was suspended at 11.49 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr swoboda is making a mistake, and i ask you to take this into account. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have adopted the commission's proposal on the transit system by a clear majority of 303 votes to 253. the proposal states that the current ceiling should be abolished. this was approved by a clear majority in parliament. in my opinion, it was a faux pas by some colleagues that the number 4 has now been included. but it is not really a contradiction in terms, because paragraph 4 also calls on the commission to maintain an upper limit until the expiry of the eco-points system. so we have clearly decided to adopt the commission's proposal in the legislative act. if the council agrees, then it's perfect. i hope the council will do so. the second requirement in paragraph 4 is one which the commission should consider. what the commission does in this case, whether it proposes a new ceiling or not, is a matter for the commission to decide. we have not asked for the old ceiling, as is clear from paragraph 4, if you read the second half of the sentence, but we have asked the commission to consider setting a new ceiling on reasonable grounds. but this faux pas passed with a majority. but that only means that the commission is being asked to think about it and to give an opinion to parliament when it has completed the process of reflection. the clear position of parliament was, is and remains - and there is nothing to correct, mr swoboda - that we approved the commission's position yesterday by a large majority! i would like to see that again.
- mr president, before we vote on this motion by name, i should like to point out that if we were to vote in favour of this motion, we would be committing a very serious breach of primary european law, namely the fundamental treaties of the european union. it cannot be in a democratically constructed europe that the ombudsman is given control over the members of parliament! (applause from the centre) it is not possible for members to be held accountable, as much as i support and support this office of ombudsman. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i rejected the evans report because i am opposed to the renationalisation of competition policy in europe. if the commission gives up its monopoly on exemptions in the future, we will not have a reform of competition law, but a change of system. if the commission in the future, in the context of this change of system, confines itself to monitoring abuses, i think that is extremely worrying. if in future the european union's courts are to rule on competition law, then i believe we will no longer be able to speak of a uniform competition policy in europe, especially in the context of the enlargement of the european union. a european cartel office would be the solution for the future. i think you should go in that direction.
mr president, the council, the commission and parliament are fully aware of the situation in zimbabwe. no one can say they didn't know. the council of ministers, which is now passive, is complicit. it is a scandal that yesterday, at the meeting of the council's working group on africa in brussels, no decision was taken. apparently, the presidency is just mouthing the africa priority it's promoting. unfortunately, france is leading a group of member states which apparently have a different agenda. how else could it be that all the countries either end or substantially reduce financial cooperation, while france increases it? i call on those eu member states which wish to become more active to practice enhanced cooperation even before the entry into force of the treaty of nice and to remind france and others that they are certainly betting on the wrong horse if they remain de facto passive now. i believe, madam kinnock, that mr mugabe does not need our decisions or our demands if he decides to impose a state of emergency. he's probably doing it anyway because he'd definitely lose the election if it ever happened.
- mr president, neither bse nor foot-and-mouth disease is an english disease, but it is a european problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i can well remember how labour mps attacked the conservative government during the bse era, and now there is a temptation for the conservatives to attack the labour government; but even if there have been failures by governments, what they are doing here is not making a constructive contribution. we have tabled a regulation on the feeding of animal meal in certain cases - it concerns animal waste. if they had been available then, we would not have had the bse problem. the same is true of foot-and-mouth disease. the commission must change its strategy. if a ring vaccination has been successfully carried out in the netherlands, it is against the mood in the eu and in the commission. i do not want you to make it possible, but i want you to enforce it, to get us to a different strategy and to secure that also in terms of trade policy! we must abandon this insane strategy of 'free of foot-and-mouth disease' or 'free of plague' and discuss it with our trading partners! we need a regulation on the feeding or destruction of food scraps. what the council has done now, which is to simply ban, is not helping. the stuff has to go somewhere, and we can't just dump it in the ditch, because then we're always going to have the problem of improper treatment.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the number of cases of foot-and-mouth disease is rising again. as we know, foot-and-mouth disease is harmless to humans, but the virus is highly contagious to all cloven-hoofed animals and causes severe economic losses. in view of the new cases of disease, i again call on the commission and the council to favour vaccination rather than killing. we must have a rethinking of the control of animal diseases in europe, and i think that we have a very balanced resolution today. consistent precautions are only one side of the coin. mcs is a constant threat to business and leisure travellers worldwide. we must be much more rigorous in our controls at airports to prevent the introduction and spread of this disease. i find that farmers and consumers alike have difficulty with the ethical issues of current vaccination policies. we are dealing with fatal consequences. we need to get rid of the policy of non-vaccination. we need the marker vaccines. we need to use the ring vaccination in a sensible way and we should finally set the political tone so that scientific progress can be made in the prevention and development of appropriate vaccines. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. cambodia had a very dark time, which in this case was blood red. during this period, almost three million people have fallen victim to marxist ideology. in this period there were two personalities who embodied the hope of freedom: son san, the great democrat who often came to strasbourg, who is now dead, and king sihanouk, now an old and sick man. that is why it is important to renew this country from the root and to promote young, democratic forces. this is only possible through the local authorities, this is only possible through democratic local elections from the bottom up. that is why it is so important that we support and strengthen the many candidates in the municipalities, that we ensure fair local elections, that we monitor efficiently, that we suppress, prevent and correct the manipulations in the registration. when it comes to the criminal court, we must be very clear: this is not about revenge, it is about justice. it must be made very clear to future perpetrators that acts of violence, genocide, mass murder will be punished ruthlessly on the basis of the rule of law, no matter who is responsible for them. we therefore need the international court of justice with a large cambodian participation, so that it becomes not a foreign court but a court for the cambodian people as well.
- mr. wurtz, you were not present. it was mr. miranda who first attacked his colleague. i gave him the floor briefly so that he could reply. so the incident is closed. i am afraid that if mr miranda now takes the floor, mr ribeiro e castro will be prepared to answer him, and we could spend the day there. both spoke on the same subject. the balance has thus been maintained.
- mr president, i would like to say on the rules of procedure that the president has acted absolutely correctly, because unita was not protected by mr ribeiro e castro, but he signed a motion criticizing it. he criticized her in his speech, and the president had him respond to her personal attack. so i think the president did the right thing.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place today at 6.30 p.m.
- doc. b5-0542/2001 by mr van orden and mr van hecke, on behalf of the group of the european people's party/european democrats (epp-ed), on the common position adopted by the council (doc. - b5-0561/2001 by mr van den berg and mr sakellariou, on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists; - b5-0568/2001 by mr haarder and others, on behalf of the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party (eldr); - b5-0575/2001 by mr maes and mr mckenna, on behalf of the green group, on the european free alliance (greens/efa); - b5-0590/2001 by mr segni, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in the middle east; - b5-0599/2001 by mr bonino and others, on behalf of the technical group of the independent (tdi) members, on actions to promote the accession of non-state actors to the total ban on anti-personnel landmines.
commission - mr. president, what are we doing? i think that is the question that is being asked and that you are asking us to answer. well, first of all we have given ourselves a framework of rules for the union, and the adoption on the eve of the summer of the two regulations on the fight against these mines gives us the legal instruments we now have at our disposal to launch effective and coordinated interventions. secondly, we will be actively participating, alongside the presidency, in the meeting of the states parties to the ottawa convention at the end of this month in nicaragua, which we consider to be an important meeting because we will, of course, be discussing the challenges involved in the elimination of antipersonnel mines, sharing the practical experience of all those who have taken up this action and, as most of you have wished, putting pressure on the states which have not yet signed this convention. we believe that the objective remains the same and we are determined to achieve it by achieving a universal ban on the production, storage, transfer and use of antipersonnel landmines. the achievement of this objective and the elimination of the risk to which the millions of mines still to be extracted from conflict zones throughout the world expose not only human lives but also economic activities, is primarily the responsibility of states and governments. i'm sure you do. unfortunately, non-governmental actors sometimes also use antipersonnel landmines in internal or interstate conflicts and therefore bear responsibility for the suffering and damage caused to people and societies by landmines. experience has shown, and you have said, that we must explore new ways of involving non-governmental actors in these actions to combat landmines and to get them to join the objective of a complete ban on these devices. in this respect, the geneva call is a well-intentioned initiative, but we must ensure that future initiatives of this kind are well in line with the considerable efforts already undertaken by the international community. as parliament knows, the international campaign to ban landmines has developed into a global movement which the european union has supported from the beginning. this international campaign, in collaboration with a number of governmental and non-governmental agreements, has developed standards, action programmes, which complement the international regulations illustrated by the ottawa convention. we therefore want to see these initiatives, which strengthen action by states and civil society, taking place alongside this international regulatory framework, and we are ready to support them. we must analyse this geneva appeal in detail and encourage its instigators to coordinate their activities closely with the icbl and other leading agreements, so as to ensure that all the forces mobilized in this direction do not run the risk of being scattered at any time, given the scale of the stakes. much remains to be done to consolidate the requirements and ambitious objectives set out in the ottawa convention.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 6.30 p.m.
- doc. b5-0547/2001 by mr salafranca sánchez-neyra and mr garcía-margallo y marfil, on behalf of the group of the european people's party/european democrats (epp-ed), on the situation in the former yugoslavia; - b5-0562/2001 by mrs díez gonzález and others, on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists (pse); - b5-0569/2001 by mr sánchez garcía and mr gasòliba i böhm, on behalf of the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party (eldr); - b5-0574/2001 by mr mayol i raynal and others, on behalf of the green group / european free alliance (greens) /efa; - b5-0600/2001 by mr queiró and mr ribeiro e castro, on behalf of the group of the european united left -nordic green left, on the drought in central america.
- my dear colleague, i have complete confidence in you because i know that you have extraordinary knowledge of other languages. it will certainly be rectified. on my right, i have already been assured that this will be added to the spanish version. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0277/2001) by mr ebner, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the 25 years of application of community rules in favour of mountain farming.
- mr president, i have to go. mr ebner, i would like to congratulate you. good report. mountain farming is a perfect example of what happens when you try to overcome local and sustainable farming. but your report also has a downside. he's just focused on this section. it is interesting that the house - or those who are still here, but who represent the majority - can agree with a majority on these many good proposals and warnings. the fact is that we should be calling for sustainable management in agriculture in general, but then there would be no agreement, so this would serve as an alibi. i'm sorry about that. this is not to diminish the usefulness of this report. we will of course agree with him. but we would like to extend this discussion to agriculture as a whole, to achieve a more sustainable and locally adapted farming system.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report by mrs kinnock is a great achievement and should be fully welcomed. a large proportion of the least developed countries are among the acp countries of sub-saharan africa. there are depressing educational deficits, especially for girls and women, who are denied even the most basic basic education. but there are examples that give hope, and that's what i want to talk about. the government of mali, a poor country in the sahel region, has set out an ambitious political programme. the commission has also been active in the field of education, and has been involved in the preparation of the programme for the future. the aim is to ensure that the children of mali, both girls and boys, receive a good education in their regional or ethnic language, if possible. but this is easier said than done, because there are no teachers trained in the regional languages, nor are there corresponding curricula, not to mention books. some must be trained, others worked on. this is not something that can be done overnight, and it is not something that can be done immediately. just think of the nomadic people in the desert. this requires the development of specific forms of education and training, to give just one example. this is a huge educational challenge that is very well supported by many donor organizations. radio can also be an important aid, especially in sparsely populated areas. in mali, as in other developing countries, many local and regional stations have now been established which can be easily used for decentralized educational efforts, even using centrally produced cassettes. in the australian outback, radio has always been a part of school curriculum. in africa, adapted electronic methods, but also mobile schools, could make a significant contribution to closing the educational gap. it is a rewarding task for european union development cooperation to be involved in such new methods. (applause from the centre)
counsel. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, just over 24 hours ago, the united states was struck by an attack of unprecedented scale and brutality. even now, women, men, and children of all ages, creeds, and backgrounds are fighting for their lives, some mourning the loss of a loved one, others in anguish, awaiting reassuring news about the dead. our thoughts, madam president, go out to this friendly people, struck by abject and barbaric violence. we would like to be able to express how close we feel to her suffering. today, we all feel american too. because, make no mistake, beyond the united states and its people, it is democracy that is being targeted. democracy and its values of freedom, tolerance, humanity, which are the exact opposite of blind, suicidal terrorism. as human beings, as democrats, as europeans, we cannot and will never be able to resign ourselves to this barbarism. the union, madam president, which we want to build, has its origin precisely in the rejection, the rejection of hatred, the rejection of fanaticism, the rejection of the murderous madness which almost led our continent to its ruin. and in the face of these tragedies, we cannot afford to ignore any concrete and strong gesture. the various member states took the necessary initiatives to help the united states of america.
president of the commission. - madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, the commission met this morning in extraordinary session. after a minute's silence, we discussed the various political aspects of this horrible tragedy which fall within the commission's direct competence. this afternoon, in the european parliament and in the general affairs council, i stressed the need to show europe's full solidarity with the american people and to take a common european position on all aspects of these tragic events. the commission is appalled by these criminal and barbaric acts and has already expressed its sympathy to the victims and their families and its solidarity with the american people. our cooperation with the united states in the fight against terrorism is more necessary than ever and must be pursued. the commission will examine in the coming days proposals for further action to combat terrorism more effectively. the economic and social structure of our countries is fortunately strong and resilient. we therefore, even in these sad circumstances, remain calm and confident, and we will not allow terrorism to divide us nor will we allow terrorism to divide the world, as it is in its intentions and as it is in its actions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this criminal act was an attack on all our common values and on freedom itself. it's an event where nothing will ever be the same. in the face of this, we must therefore give a strong witness of solidarity and friendship with the american people and government, and the european institutions and governments will work in close cooperation with our american friends and with other friendly countries in these tragic times and in the future. but there is also a purely european dimension. the dramatic events we have witnessed once again underline the need for a europe which is united, strong, determined, solidary, which protects freedom and saves peace in europe and in the world: the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the union, and that it is able to play a full part in the development of the union. i therefore urge that yesterday's tragedy be taken into account in our reflection on these events. our citizens will be able to guarantee peace and stability for themselves and their children only if they act in solidarity, only if they feel that they can count on europe. this is the interest of our peoples, this is our way: it is about pursuing it with courage, with determination and with a sense of responsibility. (applause from the left)
counsel. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by expressing to you, on behalf of the council, our profound consternation, indignation and revolt at the tragic events which have struck the united states yesterday morning. i would like to reiterate here, on behalf of the european union, its leaders and all european citizens, our deepest condolences to the victims, their families, the american people and government. this abominable act, which is killing the american people, is of course also an attack on the universal values which europe has always shared with america. i would like to solemnly reaffirm here, on behalf of the council, the unwavering solidarity of our european peoples with the american people in defending these values. the united states must know that europe stands with them in the fight against the evil of terrorism in all its forms. we cannot tolerate the values of the free and democratic world being called into question by the veiled terror. united and united, we will tackle the major threat of large-scale terrorism. the fight against this scourge will be all the more effective if it is based on upstream action and a thorough political dialogue with countries in the regions of the world where terrorism is developing. yesterday's terrorist attack on the united states soil was an unprecedented act of provocation and particularly heinous cruelty. such barbarity, such acts of terror and cowardice are intolerable. the scale of this tragedy demands an appropriate response. the european union will examine with its allies all possible ways of preventing such acts and responding to them in an appropriate manner. the european union will step up its action in the relevant international fora to combat terrorism and to ensure that the perpetrators, accomplices and sponsors of terrorist acts are rendered powerless. our determination must not under any circumstances be allowed to evade responsible caution. we do not know at this stage who are the perpetrators, the sponsors and the possible accomplices of these terrible attacks. these are essential to be able to judge and respond rationally, with a responsible and helpful attitude. we must avoid any improvisation. until we know the answer to these questions, our governments have taken the necessary steps to protect their people. the council was informed of the emergency security measures taken by the member states. in order to ensure maximum cooperation between us, the council has asked its justice, home affairs and transport committees to take all necessary measures at short notice to maintain the highest level of security, particularly in the field of air transport, and to take all appropriate measures to prevent further attacks. the justice and home affairs council on 27 september and the informal transport council on 14 september will assess the measures taken and those which should, if necessary, supplement them. the extraordinary council of foreign ministers condemned in the strongest terms these barbaric acts which insult our common values. we have declared friday, 14 september, a day of mourning in all 14 member states. we have asked the presidency to remain in close contact with the united states to discuss with them how best to help them if necessary. at the request of several member countries, the secretary-general of nato informed the council of the discussions taking place in the organization. i can now read the statement of the european union to you. the council of the european union, meeting today in extraordinary session in the presence of the secretary-general of the atlantic alliance, expressed its horror at the terrorist attacks in the united states yesterday. the council reiterated its full solidarity with the government of the united states and the american people at this tragic time and expressed its deepest sympathy to all the victims and their families. we ask all europeans to observe three minutes of silence on friday 14 september at 12 noon, and we also declare 14 september 2001 a day of mourning. these horrendous acts are an attack not only on the united states, but on all of humanity and the values and freedoms that we all share. the life and work of our open and democratic societies will continue and will not be shaken. the union condemns in the strongest terms the perpetrators and sponsors of these barbaric acts. the union and its member states will spare no effort to help identify, bring to justice and punish those responsible. terrorists and their sponsors will find no refuge anywhere. the union will work closely with the united states and all its partners to combat international terrorism. all international organisations, in particular the united nations, must be involved in this fight, and all relevant international instruments, including those relating to the financing of terrorism, must be fully implemented. the community and its member states have offered the united states all possible assistance in the search and rescue operations. discussions are under way to determine what assistance would be most useful. recalling the strong and long-standing ties between the european union and the united states, the council asked the presidency to remain in close contact with the us government in order to convey this message of solidarity. " and here, madam president, are the conclusions of the council, as you will have been fully informed: the council expressed the european union's deep solidarity with the american people and approved a declaration condemning the terrorist attacks in the united states. the council was informed of the security measures taken by the member states to ensure maximum cooperation between them. the council called on its justice, home affairs and transport committees to take all necessary measures to maintain the highest level of security, particularly in the field of air transport, and all appropriate measures to combat terrorism and prevent terrorist attacks. the justice and home affairs council on 27 and 28 september, or earlier, as the case may be, and the informal meeting of transport ministers on 14 and 15 september will assess the measures already taken and those which should supplement them. the council reaffirms its determination to combat all forms of terrorism with all the means at its disposal. the council also took note of the statement by the commission and the president of the ecofin council.
- madam president, mr verhofstadt, president of the council, mr prodi, president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you, madam president, on behalf of our group, for convening this meeting so that we can express our deep solidarity with the families of the victims, with the president of the united states of america, with our colleagues in the american congress and with all the people of the united states of america. the diabolical attack yesterday in washington and new york is not just an attack on the united states, it is an attack on the entire civilized world, an attack on each and every one of us in this room. it is an attack on our ideals of democracy, human rights and peace. we are faced with grief and horror at a catastrophe which must never happen again, and all the civilized forces in the world must now, in the strongest solidarity with the united states, hold those responsible for this attack accountable and, in close cooperation, effectively counter terrorist attacks in the future. we must find an answer to the question of how to prevent the preparation of such attacks, and this will also require a whole new dimension of european and international cooperation. we must commit ourselves today to fight terrorism decisively so that the apocalypse in new york and washington is not the apocalypse of the whole world tomorrow, and we can be proud as a parliament to have adopted last week, by such a large, overwhelming majority, the report by mr watson against terrorism. i had the impression yesterday for a few hours that the capacity of the united states of america to act was being called into question, that world power to which europeans owe the fact that it fought national socialism in the second world war and made a future of freedom possible in europe, that world power which resolutely resisted totalitarian communism, which ultimately led to the fall of the wall in the middle of berlin, germany and europe. i say on behalf of our group: we have an interest in america being able to act, america being strong, america being a good partner and friend of the european union, and let us work together for this in the future! (applause from the centre and the right) we don't know who did it. there are conjectures, but i caution against taking those conjectures for the truth. above all, i advise all of us, if the assumptions are confirmed, to spread this to the entire arab and islamic world. i have never in my life forgotten the great speech of anwar al-sadat, the assassinated president of egypt, which he gave on 10 february 1981. anwar al-sadat said: islam should never be judged by the misguided and irresponsible actions of people who claim to be followers of this great faith. islam is a religion of tolerance, not of fanaticism, a religion of love, not of hatred, a self-contained system based on order, not chaos. let us avoid generalizations and say that we want to live in partnership not only with our american friends, but also in partnership and, if possible, in friendship with the arab and islamic countries which are committed to peace. (applause from the centre and the right) let us commit ourselves today to building with all our neighbours an order in europe and in the world, with europeans strong and united. it is therefore a great sign, mr verhofstadt, that you are here, as is the president of the commission, that we are united and strong as europeans, that we want to live in friendship and partnership with all our neighbours, on the basis of human rights, democracy, freedom, social welfare and, above all, peace. that must be the message today, the day after the terrible september 11th of 2001! (applause from the centre and the right)
i have to say, madam president, of course, my dear colleague swoboda is entitled to a correct answer. i would just ask your services to give the correct answer on the basis of the debate we had at lunch. to put it carefully, i had the feeling that mr swoboda was trying to reverse the result of the vote in this house by amending the minutes. i would therefore ask you to base your reply to mr swoboda on the debate we had at lunch, and to give me a copy of it. i'm sure your services have understood everything that this house has said!
counsel. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europe, its citizens and its institutions remain profoundly shocked by the terrorist attack on the united states on tuesday, 11 september. the presidency and the council immediately condemned in the strongest terms the perpetrators, organizers and sponsors of these barbaric acts. attacks on the american people are a direct attack on the values that americans and europeans share and on which our societies are based, even if we do not have a monopoly on them: democracy, tolerance, respect for human rights, the rule of law. the council of foreign ministers expressed its deep solidarity with the american people at its emergency meeting on wednesday, 12 september. we have stated that every effort will be made to identify, prosecute and punish the perpetrators. to achieve this, the union will need to implement and strengthen various operational instruments under the common foreign and security policy and the justice and home affairs policy. terrorism, because it is international, will require a global response.
commission - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is actively preparing for the european council meeting next friday, which is fully in line with the meeting of the eu troika in the united states of america tomorrow. that is why my colleague, chris patten, who wanted to speak in particular on external relations in the fight against terrorism, was not able to attend this debate. i would like to stress, on behalf of the commission, that we support the principle that the union must make an extra effort to speak with one voice on the fight against terrorism and that we need a european agenda on this subject which recognises the central role that must be given to the united nations in the fight against terrorism on a global scale. we therefore welcome the initiative of the belgian presidency to convene an extraordinary and informal council next friday and we are pleased to take part in this debate today in the european parliament. we must show the solidarity of the whole union with the american people and the american authorities. but if the union is to influence the direction of the fight against terrorism, it must speak with one voice. terrorism is not a new phenomenon. but the threats are new, and the tools used by terrorists are new and more sophisticated. the tragic events in the united states of america painfully demonstrate the timeliness of the two proposals which the commission has approved today, which are closely linked and which also respond to a request from this parliament approved at the september plenary session in strasbourg. i would like to make it clear that our proposals are not a response to what has happened in the united states of america. they are mainly in response to the fact that we have, even in our member states, problems of terrorism which we must deal with. the commission has been working on these proposals for over a year in close liaison with the european parliament and we would like to stress that these proposals are a contribution to europe being able to cooperate more effectively within itself in the fight against terrorism and thus to cooperate in the fight against it at international level. terrorism is one of the greatest threats to democracy, the free exercise of human rights and free economic and social development. in recent years, it should be stressed, we have seen an increase in terrorist activities, both within the union's borders and at the global level. this increase in terrorism is characterized by a profound change in the nature of terrorist offences. the actual or potential effects of armed attacks are increasingly devastating and deadly. the increasing dependence of our society on technological development is giving rise to new forms of terrorism. increasingly, terrorism is carried out by networks operating at international level with very close links to other types of organised crime based in several countries, exploiting legal loopholes resulting from the geographical limitations of investigations and sometimes benefiting from significant financial and logistical support. therefore, action is needed now more than ever to combat this scourge. the treaty on european union expressly provides that the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice shall include the progressive adoption of measures establishing rules on the constituent elements of criminal offences and on sanctions applicable in the field of terrorism. the european parliament recently adopted a resolution which shows the determination of the representatives of the european citizens to ensure that the fight against terrorism is conducted with vigour and efficiency. at this stage, the commission's response is twofold: firstly, we propose a common definition of terrorist acts and the setting of levels of sanctions which reflect the seriousness of such acts in all member states. terrorists take advantage of any differences in legal treatment between states, especially when the offence is not covered by national law in one of them. the situation is, it must be admitted, very different from one member state to another. in most of our member states there is no specific rule on terrorism and terrorist acts are punishable as common law offences. six member states, on the other hand, have specific laws or legal instruments on terrorism in which the terms 'terrorism' or 'terrorist' appear explicitly. the commission's proposal for a framework decision on terrorism aims at harmonisation in this area. it includes a list of offences ranging from murder to other forms of action which may be equally devastating, even if more insidious, and which are termed terrorist when committed intentionally by individuals or groups against one or more countries, their institutions or their populations, with a view to threatening them and seriously damaging or destroying the political, economic or social structures of a country. it is envisaged that these acts will be punished by particularly severe custodial sentences of up to 2 or 20 years' imprisonment depending on the offence committed. secondly, the commission is putting forward a proposal which is, i admit, quite ambitious in nature, and which is to replace the traditional extradition procedures with a system of surrender to the judicial authorities based on a european arrest warrant. this proposal, which is complementary to the proposal on terrorism, although its scope is wider, is based on the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions, which the tampere european council wanted to become the cornerstone of european judicial cooperation. the basic idea is that when the judicial authority of a member state requests the surrender of a person, whether on the basis of a final conviction or because that person is the subject of criminal proceedings, its decision must be recognised and enforced throughout the territory of the union in order to simplify and speed up the procedures as much as possible. it is intended to set a time limit of three months and to restrict the refusal to execute to a limited number of cases. in particular, the principle of double criminality should be abolished. the exception for nationals should also not be maintained. the most relevant criterion in the union is not nationality but the place of residence of the person. the proposal aims to facilitate, as far as possible, the execution of the sentence in the country of arrest, where the person is most likely to be reintegrated into society. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, i shall have the opportunity to present these proposals to the ministers tomorrow at the extraordinary council convened by the belgian presidency to discuss the union's contribution to the fight against the terrorist threat. the interest of this meeting is to provide us with an opportunity to put the questions of principle to the ministers at the political level and to try to decide them. this concerns both our legislative proposals and a whole series of measures which should be taken to strengthen our action at operational level and to improve and make more effective our collaboration with our partners. on the operational level, as you know, the commission has no powers, but it believes that the union should take a number of measures at internal level, including ensuring that europol becomes an operational instrument in the fight against the various forms of crime, including terrorism. this requires the implementation of the provisions of the amsterdam treaty on europol which provide for its participation in joint investigation teams and the possibility of inviting member states to launch investigations, which also requires a major revision of the content of the europol convention, including the issues of judicial and democratic control. a strong commitment by member states is needed now to establish real and effective cooperation between their intelligence services and thus demonstrate the existence of mutual trust between them. this is also necessary to significantly improve the conditions under which the police and intelligence services of the member states provide europol with the information necessary for the performance of these tasks, of which i consider the most important to be the prevention of terrorist acts. in addition, it is important for the union to strengthen cooperation at international level and this will include taking all necessary measures in the fields of judicial assistance, extradition, police and judicial cooperation to improve the capacity to prevent and combat terrorism at international level. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, these are some of the ideas that the commission has put forward and which are being proposed to the european parliament and the european council. in these difficult times, when i am sure that the citizens of our member states are looking to the future with uncertainty and a feeling of insecurity, i believe that the best political message we can send them is that we have here a unique opportunity to demonstrate that there is a real added value in the european venture to guarantee them a future of freedom, security and justice. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our group, the european people's party (christian democrats) and european democrats, very much welcomes the fact that, on the initiative of the belgian presidency of the council, a special summit of heads of state or government will be held on friday, and madam president, you will be speaking there on behalf of the european parliament. we in the european parliament can be very proud of the fact that we adopted the watson report last week, which is a guide for our common fight against terrorism. the summit in brussels next friday should be a signal in many ways. it should be a signal to our american friends that the diabolical attacks in washington and new york were not only an attack on the united states, but on the whole civilized world, an attack on each and every one of us! they were attacks on our ideals of democracy, human rights and peace. what we said last week in a very impressive session here is still true today. i asked the high commissioner, javier solana, who is on his way to washington this morning, together with mr michel and mr patten, to say in his talks with mr powell, the american foreign minister, that we, the freely elected parliament of europeans in the european union, have expressed our solidarity immediately after these terrible events. but we also say in washington that we expect that decisions will not just be announced there, and that our european leaders will be simply informed about them, but that there will be real discussions and consultations, so that the necessary action will be a joint action, a jointly responsible action of europeans and americans. madam president, i have the utmost respect for javier solana. but in future we must ensure that we can also debate with the high representative of the european union here in the european parliament. i think that can be improved. (applause from the centre) the summit on friday must also send a signal to the middle east. we call on israel and palestine to talk to each other now. it is not the time to refuse and cancel talks, but it is the time for dialogue and confidence-building measures so that we can achieve peace there. (applause from the centre) we must say this: those who refuse to engage in dialogue are distancing themselves from our sympathy and solidarity. we need peaceful development and confidence-building measures, especially in these days in the middle east! (applause from the centre) we need a signal to the arab and islamic world. our group decided this morning at a meeting of the bureau to recommend to you, madam president, that we should meet as soon as possible as the european parliament with the parliamentarians from the arab and islamic world in the framework of the mediterranean forum, that is to say with those countries with which we are associated in the barcelona process and in the mediterranean dialogue. now let's put this signal out there so they know we want partnership and friendship. let me address another aspect, and i think that must be the real operational content of the summit here in brussels on friday. mr vitorino, we thank you for making these proposals today. we really need to make europol a tool in the fight against crime and we are calling on our member states to provide europol with the necessary information, which has not been the case so far. as we know, only one member state has so far done this to a certain extent, while the other member states have so far refused to do so. we are very much in favour of introducing a european arrest warrant and now is the time to act. if there is anyone who wants to stop the strengthening of europe now, who is not in favour of european cooperation on behalf of europol, who is basically denying solidarity not only to europeans but also to our american friends, because we must also be united in the fight against crime and terrorism if we want to stand by our american partners and friends! (applause from the centre) that is why our group has tabled an amendment to the 2002 budget. we want to provide europol with the necessary means to enable it to act in a truly operational way. the time for words is over! we must act as europeans. but at the same time we must be prudent and above all, wherever possible, we must resolve conflicts peacefully. military action is never retaliation, but must always lead to greater security. let us act wisely, but let us act consistently, and above all let us make our contribution to the peaceful coexistence of the peoples of this earth! (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. solidarity in words must now be followed by solidarity in deeds. the union parties in germany feel at any rate obliged to the americans in their joint defence against terrorism. the americans have done a decisive job in rebuilding our country, in restoring our unity. we must therefore share with them the burden of combating terrorism. the proposals put forward by commissioner vitorino are a first and proper step along this road. but it's not an emergency program. these measures will enter into force in 2002 at the earliest. if they are right, we can and must do more! we can equip europol, for example, better than we are at present. europol needs an agreement with the united states of america on data exchange for the purpose of combating terrorism, within the framework of the law in force, immediately. the reason why this has failed so far is that we have made our privacy policy the standard of all things. so we've actually benefited the terrorists more than their victims with this privacy. we must provide europol with immediate operational capabilities. we must now use the joint action teams that we can. europol must be present where investigations against terrorists are being carried out and must promote the direct exchange of data between those who are investigating and those working at europol's headquarters. these opportunities are already there and we must seize them. this is something that can be done within the framework of the existing legislation, and we do not have to wait for directives to be transposed.
chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we see that, as i believe, the response to this terrorist act is being prepared with great care. the united states is approaching the matter calmly and is trying to solve the problem in a multilateral approach, including cooperation with nato. this indicates that everything is done with discretion. i think that we must make it clear that there is no reason for us to shirk our responsibility and our duty, not just out of gratitude, not just to ensure the future of transatlantic relations, but because it is in our own best interests to do so! this terrorism, which has taken the form of war and has caused destruction such as we have only known from wars, is capable of striking brussels today, london tomorrow and madrid the day after tomorrow in the same way! the fighters are already in our midst, and for that reason, no one can sneak out! i think that no one should look for an alibi for not being able to take part when it really comes to action, action which we must develop from a new definition of security policy: military action using all the instruments of foreign policy, for example to prevent alliances in favour of others from being formed, and the combination with internal security, which mr vitorino and many in this house have already spoken about. the last point is that it must be clear that crossborder measures can be used against crossborder terrorism and that the best national legislation and the best national police force cannot do anything if there is no cooperation in this area! the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a victim of terrorism, and it must not be allowed to continue to be a victim of terrorism. that is why we must do our part in the middle east and in many other regions to eliminate the breeding ground for terrorism! (applause from the centre)
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, and mr commissioner! we must also have consequences for air transport. we need measures to prevent such terrorist attacks from being repeated in aviation. we need to increase passenger safety quickly, preferably at international level. but everyone should start at their home airport. we need to tighten checks on baggage and hand luggage. we need tougher checks on airport staff. it is not enough, first of all, that the controls at airports are tightened today and tomorrow, if they are again lax in six months in certain parts of europe. no, we need to keep a tight control on this. we need to have armed flight attendants on certain routes on a case-by-case basis, and we need to consider whether we need to secure the cockpit against terrorist attacks, because we need to prevent aircraft from becoming the biggest weapon in the world. however, we are not only concerned about the safety of passengers - that is the primary concern - but we also have a secondary concern: we are seeing huge declines in airline passenger numbers right now. we need to monitor the situation. are the declines in passenger numbers due to the terrorist attacks? are they cyclical or structural declines in passenger numbers? the demands of some governments, which you read in the newspapers today - subsidies, subsidies - cannot be the answer! my group rejects subsidies for airlines. we need to think about how we can help airlines. we can help them by agreeing to code sharing, allowing corporate restructuring, along with mergers and acquisitions. we can do this in a more elegant way to keep them competitive, but we should not be paying subsidies indiscriminately. of course, the situation may change. if the united states is giving huge amounts of aid to its airlines, then we must look at the impact on the transatlantic market. then we cannot leave our airlines in the lurch, but please be careful, and first of all we need to increase safety for passengers!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in the context of its enlargement, cohesion policy is probably the greatest challenge the community will face. at the same time, cohesion policy will be the test of whether it is possible to maintain stability in an eu of 27 in all its parts. however, the tendency has become established in the member states to evaluate cohesion policy not by success in the less-favoured areas but by how much they get back in the end of each negotiation. this must change from 2006 onwards! the stability and the successful development of an enlarged union after 2006 will only be guaranteed if the acquis is not the condition for allocating funds but common objective criteria. in other words, a new common cohesion policy must be tested in all its parts against the old policy. the second cohesion report contains some good proposals, but it also carries with it many failures of cohesion policy and is not a fundamental reform proposal. i have a few more things to say about the proposals. i think it is good that all the regions of the enlarged union are given the same value, but at the same time there is no shock for the regions that are currently receiving aid. i therefore fully support the principle of phasing out. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. but this must also apply to the acceding countries in the accession funds and now so that the administrations can be trained in them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the structural funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's why quality must come before quantity!
mr president, commissioner, madam president of the council! i consider the economic and social cohesion policy to be one of the most positive achievements of the european union, because it documents the principle of solidarity between the more developed and the weaker regions. of course, if we analyse the way the structural funds policy has worked so far, we must clearly say that there are a lot of shortcomings. firstly, while divergence between member states has decreased, differences within member states between highly developed and weak regions have increased. secondly, the unemployment rate in the weak regions has not decreased significantly. thirdly, the average per capita income of the richest regions, which account for 10% of the union's population, is still 2.6 times higher than that of the regions where the poorest 10% of the population live. fourthly, the underdeveloped regions still lack self-sustaining economic and social cycles. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. fifthly, look at the commitment appropriations still to be disbursed at the end of 1999: they amounted to almost 42 billion euro, which means that the use of the structural funds for certain projects is inefficient! this means that we must choose other measures, other projects. this is of course only possible in cooperation with the member states. despite the shortcomings, it must not be overlooked that enormous amounts of progress have been made. the differences would be even greater. this means that we must continue the policy of the structural funds. mr barnier, you said there should be no taboos. that's right! at the informal meeting in namur, all the member states said more or less the same thing and made proposals. but at some point you have to get to the point, at some point you have to say that these proposals cost a lot of money, and we either have to provide it or we have to admit that we will not provide it. you can't put that off forever. you know that the ceiling is 1.27% of gdp within the financial perspective 2000 to 2006. where are we really? at 1.06%, that is. this is not the way to implement a genuine structural policy! it 's also up to parliament ... (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.) i have not only blamed the commissioner, we have always been indulging ourselves! i am not talking about my group, which has always tabled the amendments. perhaps, mr jarzembowski, the ppe will be in the next one, and then it will be almost a majority! we must of course also consider, in the context of this discussion, that there are very specific regions. the programme for the border regions, which the commission has proposed, i am sorry, commissioner, but it is completely inadequate! perhaps you should consider doing something similar... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i too would like to take up your suggestion that we discuss this matter without taboo. i do not think there is anyone in this house who is against cohesion policy. the question we have to ask ourselves is: can cohesion policy not be better managed without a cohesion fund? there are two problems. firstly, if accessions are to take place, then logically all the acceding countries should join the cohesion fund, because it was the poorest countries and states. we cannot say that there is regional policy for all, cohesion funds for four countries, and the ten new ones are all somehow covered! no, so if the cohesion fund is to be maintained, it would have to apply to all the applicant countries. i personally believe, however, that cohesion policy, via regional and structural policy in general, can be better achieved without a cohesion fund, especially since the cohesion fund, in my view, has the disadvantage of focusing on the states rather than the regions. we do not want to support the states, but we want to support the less favoured regions. i therefore believe that this question, commissioner, should be given very careful reconsideration. secondly, i think we should also, as you have always said, distinguish between the reform of the content and the question of how much money we want to spend on it in the end. i think we must decide quickly on the substance, because the applicant countries have a right to be told by 2002/2003 what cohesion policy will look like when they become members. commissioner, i'm not sure i understood you correctly. i like your model. they say that there are uniform criteria for all regions, say one or two, and then we phase out the regions which have been supported until now but which are no longer eligible under the new criteria or because there is no money. the question now arises as to what criteria will actually be used in future to determine the level of support. so i would be willing to talk about one or two criteria, or even three criteria. but i have a little suspicion -- you indicated that earlier -- that you have ten criteria afterwards. then you look at which criteria fit the region? ah, there's some mountains, so it's a mountainous region. ah, this is an island location, so this is an island region! i think it's better to take whatever percentage you want, like gdp plus maybe the unemployment rate. if you go further and say that, yes, the gender distribution or the educational level of men and women are also considered as general criteria, then it gets a little confusing, if i may say so. so let's continue to discuss it, as you told us to. we are on your side, we look forward to the further debate with you!
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to expressly support those who have said that this debate should not be about preserving the acquis, but about helping those who need it most. let me also be clear that i do not think anyone should turn a blind eye to the fact that enlargement will present us all with major challenges, including financial ones. the germans have had the experience of reunification when they first tried to explain to the citizens that there would be no burdens. that was proven wrong! so that there is no misunderstanding, of course we want enlargement. but we must also consider the consequences for structural policy. i do not think that we can and will have a simple 'continue like this'. if we do not want to lose the confidence of the people in the regions concerned, we must also make clear and honest warnings at an early stage. to avoid a bad awakening, we need to look for ways of giving full support to the applicant countries in building their infrastructure, while ensuring that the weakest regions in the eu-15 are brought further down to the average. this can only be achieved by making some changes which would be necessary even without enlargement. firstly, the fact that cohesion countries sometimes have very different successes in the recovery process and that the best successes have been demonstrated where the local actors are involved and committed to the highest possible efficiency of support. in order to monitor the efficiency of the resources used, the evaluation of projects must also be further improved and efficient management more rewarded than it has been so far. last but not least, closer integration with the other eu policies, in particular the common agricultural policy, is inevitable. the decentralisation and simplification of which commissioner barnier spoke, i believe, will enable us to achieve both objectives.
mr president, commissioner, madam president of the council! cohesion policy is an integral part of the european union. we cannot make progress towards european union cohesion if solidarity is not always a factor. we all know that those who are stronger, those who are richer, those who have to help, those who are poorer or not yet strong or are in the process of catching up. we are talking today about what has been seen in the last few years and, of course, about the conclusions we must draw from this for the next few years. i would like to take a look at the current state of our cohesion policy in concrete terms, that is to say, how do we spend the money we have set aside for this really important policy of the european union? we have had the most heated debates in the past, up to agenda 2000, about how much money to give. but if we look at the actual implementation today, we must have very serious doubts whether this is being done seriously. we have been at the beginning of the new funding period since last year, which means that it cannot of course start as quickly at the beginning as when you are in the middle of the process, but nevertheless it must be pointed out that the implementation rates in the various areas are pitiful, there is no other way to say it! we have raised this issue several times in the committee on budgets, and the committee on the regions has also raised it and will continue to raise it. if you look at the current discussion in the budgetary consultations - and now i have to turn to the council - you will see that the council is only setting aside 1% for new commitments for next year, which will then actually be converted into payments. 1% of the total we want to commit should be paid! we produce a backlog, as we have often done in the past. we are accumulating funds rather than providing rapid aid, and rapid aid is good aid because we want many countries and regions to not need to get any aid when enlargement comes. if we really want to help them get out of there, if we really want to make room for the new countries that want to join, we must help now quickly, we must help in a concentrated way, which means that we must follow up here. i call on the commission - it has already put forward proposals - but also on the council to put words into action, because cohesion is only good if it really reaches the people, and as soon as possible!
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your clear words and for your twofold declaration that, in the context of economic and social cohesion, due account will be taken of both the new member states and the continuing difficulties in the 15 member states now in existence in different regions. on the other hand, i would also like to thank you for once again stressing that there are no taboos in the debate. we are at the beginning of this process of discussion and we should also explore the whole range of the revision of the structural funds in this discussion. the economic and social cohesion of 27 countries is different from the cohesion of 15. it is clear that the accession of 12 new countries will significantly widen disparities in the eu. the new member states will have to be given priority, but the current recipient countries will not be denied a certain degree of continuity. we know that the cohesion fund and the structural funds are always temporary measures and cannot be converted into assets. however, it must not happen that regions lose their objective 1 status after 2006 simply because enlargement has improved their relative situation without achieving self-sustaining development. i believe that cohesion policy is only credible if we allocate funds on the basis of objective criteria which apply equally to all, and the criteria of national and regional prosperity must be taken into account. the forthcoming revision of european regional policy will therefore have to find solutions, and this is the purpose of the discussion process now beginning - to take account of the situations in the new member states as well as in the objective 1 regions of the present member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is not the case that when the time for speaking is up and the commissioner has spoken, everyone starts a new debate. i would ask you to avoid that in future, otherwise i would also like to speak for two minutes. i can only say that the commissioner has answered all our questions very well and that we owe him a great deal of thanks!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the purpose of annual reports is to analyse and draw conclusions for a limited period of time. this eleventh annual report on the structural funds covers a year which is certainly of particular importance for the development of cohesion policy in the union. my group shares with the rapporteur some of the measures proposed and the possibilities for improvement in terms of the implementation of the structural funds, such as speeding up the implementation of approved measures, the actual concentration of structural fund resources on areas lagging behind in development or improving on-the-spot checks in view of the still quite high rate of fraud. we also want to make critical remarks and point out that we do not support some of the rapporteur's conclusions and conclusions, such as the overly negative assessment of the results of the structural funds during the planning period, and the failure to achieve the objective of regional policy, namely the equalization of living conditions, which was allegedly only partially achieved. i think, mr rapporteur, that you are taking the wrong approach to european structural policy, which is simply trying to reduce disparities and, in my view, has largely achieved that. however, there will always be a disparity between living conditions in rich and poor regions of the eu, even within a member state. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we should not confuse the feasible with the desirable. the second critical point is that, despite its importance for 1999, the 11th report is an annual report and not a catalogue of the union's past, present and future concerns and problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is precisely what this report does not do! as i said, the conclusions of the rapporteur are not necessarily wrong, but many things are not in fact in the report! we therefore believe that some of the points in this report still need to be amended by the plenary.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs valenciano, in particular for her excellent report, which has a very clear message: genital mutilation is a violation of human rights! the reasons given to justify this violation of human rights are varied, and are based on tradition and religion. in fact, it is an instrument for perpetuating the oppression of women. women who wish to avoid genital mutilation face social exclusion, that is, unimaginable poverty and ostracism. their high-level experience of violence, the irreparable damage to body, soul and health, is hardly noticed. for the first time, the 1995 world conference on women in beijing set in motion a global process of discussion and solidarity, calling for international policy to act together. in europe too, we are confronted with female genital mutilation, but also with a wide range of perpetrators and accomplices. although fgm, as it is called, is a crime in many countries, media and self-help organizations report an estimated 5,000 cases in germany alone, and about four times as many cases of girls being sent to their home countries for mutilation. there are unscrupulous doctors and others who earn between 1,000 and 3,000 marks per case. my group, the socialist group, calls for the women who are threatened to be granted asylum, for the perpetrators to be punished and for the principle of extraterritoriality to be applied. i want to make this very clear: for my group this is an important point, and it is completely incomprehensible to us that parts of the epp or the whole epp want to abstain on this asylum question, will not vote for the report and thus abandon the women. the fight against ignorance and oppression must be conducted internationally, and that is why the socialist international has launched a worldwide campaign against violence against women. fifteen countries have already banned fgm, including nine african countries. more aid must follow. my government in germany has already put 3.8 million marks into education and projects. the eu is helping with daphne. but that's just the tip of the iceberg. we must work together to fight for reproductive health, against aids and against genital mutilation. then we have a chance to reach out to the women and help them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. female genital mutilation is a source of immense suffering for women and girls in at least 25 african countries - most of them acp countries. women are victims of violent and life-threatening cultural traditions which must be overcome, because a tradition which is contemptuous of man, in this case terribly contemptuous of women, cannot exist in the 21st century. the commission has also proposed that the community should be given the task of developing a common policy on the environment. happily, laws against female genital mutilation have been enacted in ethiopia, ghana, guinea, uganda, senegal, tanzania, togo, burkina faso, the central african republic, and côte d'ivoire. at the same time, efforts are being made, with the support of aid organizations and a large number of non-governmental organizations, to put an end to this terrible practice by means of education and persuasion among the population. in this context, a decision of the last acp-eu joint assembly in libreville, gabon, mrs bonino, is to be welcomed. the acp delegation unanimously called on the political leaders to take all the necessary legislative, administrative and legal measures to put an end to genital mutilation in practice and to ensure its eradication through awareness-raising campaigns. this has also been branded as a violation of human rights there, and this is a great step forward from the previous taboo on this subject, which must be acknowledged. the fight for the physical and mental integrity of women in the acp countries and elsewhere is not yet won. he needs our continued support in solidarity.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the problem of harassment at work should have been discussed here in the european parliament a long time ago. it was a long wait, as the question kept coming up: is this the right place? some members of my group reject this report because they think it is not a european issue. the majority will follow my recommendation and agree with it because it is a european issue and problem. we have bullying in all the countries of the european union, in all the sectors and also in the institutions of the european union. it's a bad subject, it's embarrassing to many, the numbers are high, nobody really wants to talk about it, the people affected feel ashamed, exploited and blackmailed. the path of suffering often has serious consequences, not only for the persons concerned themselves in body and soul, but also for economically defined consequences: sickness, medical and pharmaceutical costs, staff turnover, reduced productivity, reduced quality, loss of image of the company or establishment and thus also loss of customers. all of this goes hand in hand with bullying. the dignity of every human being should be respected not only on paper and in the constitution, but also in everyday interactions. a little more respect and fairness and less selfishness would probably save us a discussion about bullying. in order to eliminate all the causes of bullying, european legislation is inadequate and ineffective. i therefore thank the rapporteur for his good cooperation and for including my thoughts in this report. the focus on anti-bullying should be based in the member states and involve the social partners actively. companies should have a vested interest in ensuring that such incidents do not happen to them. the commission will also have difficulty in presenting the green paper it has announced because of the difficulty in defining it precisely. but the fact that we already have a few good examples in the european union in the fight against bullying should also be a lesson for everyone. a good distribution of tasks to the levels to which they belong also increases the necessary will to act and the necessary respect for the difficult subject.
mr president, in the eu an estimated 12 million people are exposed to bullying. the dark figure is much higher. there is exclusion and harassment, there is the spreading of rumors, the deliberate withholding of information, the scapegoating of people. whether you're a boss or an employee, anyone can be a victim or a perpetrator. bullying is still so underestimated that few effective tools have been developed. it is a serious problem in working life. the aggression and depression, sick leave, redundancies, personnel restructuring caused by bullying cost the economy and social systems several hundred million euros a year. the fifteen eu member states must take stock together. best practice approaches will help us to share experiences with each other so that meaningful actions can emerge. but the solutions must be differentiated according to the forms of bullying, i.e. gender, age or ethnicity. the report by mr andersson is excellent. it was rightly adopted unanimously in the employment committee. almost all the proposals from the epp were integrated, such as the involvement of the european social partners in jointly developing anti-bullying concepts. in practice, this means active conflict management, better internal communication and networking for those harmed by bullying. we also propose that a confidential representative be appointed in the undertakings so that those concerned can approach him in confidence. we strongly expect, commissioner diamantopoulou, that the commission will be able to issue a green paper on bullying within the next year, so that we will then be able to develop a precise programme of action to have a lasting impact.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to thank the two rapporteurs for their tenacity and commitment. this was certainly particularly necessary in the negotiations with the council, especially when i think of the negotiations on large combustion plants. parliament wanted and ultimately pushed for the inclusion of old installations in this directive. this is a key area in which we can achieve success. but we must also say that we have not been completely successful. we have had to accept many exceptions, extensions and lower limits, not because it is technically impossible otherwise, otherwise we would often be faced with statements such as: what you want, dear parliament, is technically impossible! in this case it is quite clear that upgrading existing plants to the level of new plants is technically not a problem at all. in many areas, this is already a reality. the resistance was based solely on the economic considerations of individual large combustion plants. that's a short-sighted view. we must think in terms of the economy as a whole and also take into account the costs of acidification and the pollution that affects the population. i do not understand or agree with the council's negotiating position on this matter. but since the old plants were eventually included, i also agree with the compromise.
- the minutes of yesterday's meeting have been distributed. are there any observations ?
- mr. santini, that will be corrected. (the minutes were approved)
- mr de rossa, we are taking note. the agenda for the next part-session shall be adopted by the conference of presidents. we'll pass along your suggestion.
- the next item is the report (a5-0274/2991) by mr marinho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the initiative of the governments of the french republic, the kingdom of sweden and the kingdom of belgium to have the council adopt a framework decision [5126/2001 - c5-0055/2001 - 2001/0803 (cns)) on the enforcement in the european union of decisions freezing assets or evidence.
the commission is aware of the fact that the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the member states. this is the first substantive proposal following the adoption by the council and the commission of the programme of measures to implement the principle of mutual recognition of criminal decisions. i am also very grateful to the rapporteur, mr marinho. the report is excellent and, as it points out, mutual recognition will be a decisive step in judicial cooperation in criminal matters. as you all know, traditional judicial cooperation is slow and bureaucratic, which is absolutely contrary to the interests of citizens, and the news highlights the need for swift and effective judicial cooperation. i can also support the approach taken by the rapporteur in his amendments, in particular that this initiative is not ambitious enough. it applies only to a very limited list of offences which are already harmonised at union level and does not cover certain traditional offences such as murder, armed robbery or rape. it also does not deal with terrorist acts. the rapporteur therefore proposes that the scope of the proposal be extended to all offences punishable by a custodial sentence of at least six months, and the commission fully agrees. the commission is already pleading with the council for this extension and negotiations are under way. parliament therefore has a good chance of achieving a more ambitious initiative, which will be in line with the objectives of the heads of state and government who established the principle of mutual recognition in criminal matters at the tampere european council. mr president, it is in this spirit that i welcome the adoption of this positive and ambitious report.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0233/2001) by mr coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the crossing of external borders and the development of cooperation within the framework of schengen [10846/1999 - c5-0042/2000 + (11329/3/1999 - c5-0043/2000) + (schac 2533/1/2000 - c5-0729/2000) + (sek2000) 1439 - c5-0730/2000 - 2000/2015/cos) ].
the commission is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this report on the crossing of borders and the development of schengen cooperation touches on a subject which is central to the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice. schengen has a special characteristic. on the one hand it ensures freedom of movement, which is a key element of the treaty, and on the other hand it makes effective the need to surround this freedom with a sound policy of coherent external border control and other compensatory measures. but the integration of schengen into the union has, in fact, signed the death of this agreement, but it still remains alive by the symbolism surrounding the term. schengen was conceived as a laboratory to ensure the implementation of a result obligation under the single european act. and then schengen was split up and integrated into the union, and little by little community and union legislation replaces and develops the schengen convention and the other decisions relating to it. for example, the common consular instruction and the common manual have become regulations, and new proposals based on the third pillar supplement or replace equivalent provisions of the convention that have been broken down towards this pillar. in july last year the commission submitted to the council and parliament a proposal to bring together in a single legal instrument five categories of persons who may move freely within an area without control, thus fulfilling the wish expressed by the european parliament to bring together all the fragmented elements governing the movement of persons. the commission also intends to present a proposal on article 2 of schengen, in order to better encompass the safeguard clause on the reintroduction of internal border controls. the work is not finished, but the aim is to arrive at 'amsterdamiser' schengen in the near future. that is why i think it would be problematic and difficult, mr president, to start an exercise which would consist in making a regular report on schengen, because it would end up being a report on the various instruments which have replaced or are in the process of replacing schengen. but i can engage the commission to continue to inform parliament regularly of developments in this area, which for the sake of simplicity of the term we shall call the schengen area. parliament is also kept informed of all legislative and practical activities by the scoreboard which was set up following the tampere council and is regularly updated. the commission has considered that conversion of the acquis should be done on the basis of priority needs which depend on developments and the political situation and indications of the council and parliament. these priorities naturally include the development of the schengen information system and of course - and you are very interested in this - questions relating to the applicant countries. the rapporteur has made these concerns his own, and the commission can only share them. as regards the schengen information system, sis ii, i would like to give some information on the latest developments. as you know, the justice and home affairs council of 28 and 29 may did not reach a unanimous decision in favour of intergovernmental funding. the decision was therefore taken to finance the project from the community budget. in addition, the belgian and swedish presidencies presented two initiatives, one on the first pillar and the other on the third pillar, aimed at giving the commission, assisted by a committee, the responsibility for the development of sis ii, between 2002 and 2006 therefore, to be launched. the main objective of these two proposals, which are currently being analysed by the council, is first of all to provide a legal basis for the financing of this development phase. but secondly, legislative proposals will have to be made on the various essential aspects of sis ii, in particular the question of management and functionalities. as part of its responsibilities for financing, the commission will also present a communication which will cover various aspects of sis ii: legal, technical and financial issues, but also the various preparatory steps to be considered, as well as the general method to be established until sis ii is finally established. in conclusion, mr president, mr rapporteur, i can assure you that your resolution will be taken into account by the commission in assessing the efforts made and those still to be made, and in defining its priorities for action in the schengen area.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0291/2001) by mr watson, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council directive on minimum standards on the procedure for granting and withdrawing refugee status in the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i think the committee which adopted this report by a majority is sadly on the wrong track. i would like to explain why i am doing this. we have tried to find a compromise on this very sensitive and difficult subject when the commission's working document on this subject was presented about a year ago. we have agreed to divide asylum seekers into three groups: first, those who seek asylum, secondly those who come to us temporarily from crisis regions and thirdly those who want to immigrate to the member states with the intention of establishing their future livelihood here. we were also clear that we could only manage the last pillar of immigration sensibly if we also made sure that the number of - i will not deliberately use harsh words - unjustified asylum applications could be reduced, or at least that we could deal with them consistently. we know that at most 10% or 15% of the applications submitted are genuinely eligible applications under the geneva convention and are recognised as such. i therefore believe that the committee, with its majority, has made two mistakes: firstly, because it has abandoned this consensus which we have tried so hard to find, and secondly, because it has not done a good service to those who are really entitled, to those who are really politically persecuted, by treating those who have entered germany or other member states unlawfully in the same way, so to speak, and thereby damaging the reputation of those who are really entitled. the way in which the reasons for flight are extended to non-state persecution, the way in which the possibilities of member states, at any rate those member states which have to cope with large flows, to have effective recourse to the safe country of origin institution are restricted, but also the question of how to deal with manifestly unfounded requests, all that is now in this report, means that there is no longer any really effective means of acting, even in the area where unjustified requests are made in large numbers. i must appeal to them again and again. i know how difficult this subject is. i also know how sensitive this issue is. but let us try to maintain in detail these common pillars which we discussed with great consensus a year ago. i hope that the german social democrats, who talk very differently to their minister of the interior in germany, will perhaps change their voting behaviour today. i also hope that we will find a way back to consensus and that we will give the people who are really affected, the politically persecuted, the respect they deserve in our member states.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is very necessary, but precisely because it is so necessary, it is so difficult. unfortunately, we have to start anew today, to break down prejudices against people seeking asylum. these prejudices are fraught with fears, mostly unfounded, but nevertheless to be taken seriously. right now, i think it's very important that we stop talking for a long time and start acting. i think that those who have been shouting for the military after the recent terrible events must admit that it is precisely today that we as politicians must take responsibility and show that we are not in a panic situation but are able to act responsibly precisely because of the difficulties we are facing. that is why - and i have to explain this to my colleagues on the conservative side of this house - we do not behave as if, because we like mr schmitt or mr pirker, we were in principle in agreement with them. that is why we shall vote differently from our group on some of the amendments. the background to our behavior is as follows: although we are very pleased that the socialist group in this house is trying everything and doing everything possible to ensure that refugees enjoy more protection and have more rights, which we welcome, there is a problem for us german social democrats. we cannot accept an agreement or a decision if it is not constitutional in our country. the german constitution does not allow us to accept some 17 of the amendments tabled at the moment. that is why we must vote differently from our group on some of the motions i have just mentioned. but that doesn't mean we have any other goals. we have the same goals. but we shall be different in today's vote, because we are also thinking about the credibility of our policy in germany. we cannot disappoint our citizens and accept a decision which would then be unworkable in germany. that is why we are voting differently.
the commission has already done so. in a situation where the terrible events in the united states are also used by some as a pretext to create anti-asylum sentiment, it is all the more important that the european union formulate minimum standards for the granting or withdrawal of refugee status, which are oriented towards the respect of human rights. the commission proposal fulfils this condition. i expressly welcome two regulations proposed by her. article 3 (3) refers to the possibility for member states to extend the protection granted to persons other than those who can rely on the geneva convention relating to the status of refugees. it would also enable people seeking refuge from violent fundamentalists - in algeria, for example - or victims of rape to find refuge, a demand which the united nations high commissioner for refugees has long made and which, unfortunately, is not currently being put into practice in my country. annex 1 lists the three conditions which must be met for a country to be a so-called safe third country. if this condition is applied in the future, some deportations from eu countries may no longer be possible. i am glad that the acceptable commission proposal has been improved in the committee responsible and not deteriorated, as the original rapporteur, mr schmitt, intended. the proposed directive is therefore an important step towards a more humane asylum policy in the european union.
commission. - mr president, mr barnier contacted the president of cocobu yesterday to explain the commission's position on this matter. i can therefore assure you that, without adopting the proposed amendments, the commission will take the necessary steps to achieve the result desired by parliament, and the commission will make a statement when the council adopts the amendment to the regulation in which it will confirm the strengthening of the conditions for combating irregularities and fraud, already provided for in the financing agreements concluded between the commission and the beneficiary countries, and will commit itself to improving the information of parliament.
president of the committee on budgetary control mr president! i thank you very much, commissioner reding, for that explanation. we do not want to delay the flow of funds to the candidate countries, and that is why i would like to announce, in consultation with my colleagues from the various political groups, that we can proceed to the final vote under the conditions just set out.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make the following statement on behalf of my 34 colleagues in the social democratic party of germany and also on my own behalf on the vote on the watson report, formerly the schmitt report: we have a situation in the federal republic of germany at the moment where the question of immigration legislation, asylum legislation and questions of the right of residence in the federal republic of germany is the subject of a global debate. the federal government, the german bundestag, the länder, the committees of the parties and the inter-party committees have dealt very intensively with the questions which partly concern the watson report, and we are now in germany at a stage of legislative negotiations in parliament and between parliament, the government and the federal council. it is precisely in this situation that we, as the spd delegation, are confronted here in parliament with proposals from the commission, with the opinions of the rapporteur, mr schmitt - now mr watson - with proposals from the various groups, which are partly contrary and partly in agreement with the things we, as german social democrats, are discussing in the internal political debate. we therefore abstained on some points, in contrast to our own group, or rejected the proposals, and our closeness to the ppe-de group will be only in the minutes and in the typography, and we generally disagree on the substance. but in the final vote we also supported this watson report with our group out of loyalty to our social democratic family, even though we had serious reservations on certain points, particularly concerning german constitutional law, and had to make use of them. i would like to explain this because we have not yet completed our internal policy formulation at the time when we had to vote in parliament, so that one or other of the decisions we take here is not necessarily what is currently being discussed in our own house.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to repeat on behalf of our group what i said on 12 september - and i believe with the agreement of everyone in the european parliament - that man-made terrorism must not be confused with the peace-loving islamic faith! i remember the great speech of anwar el sadat on 10 february 1981 in the european parliament - then in luxembourg - where he said: 'islam is a religion of love and not of hatred'. i would like to reiterate on behalf of our group that we reject all rhetoric of a clash of civilizations and that we want partnership and friendship with all peace-loving arab and islamic countries. that is why i have proposed that we convene the mediterranean forum. i understand that you, madam president, also intend to make a proposal on thursday. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but that it should be involved in the matter of the common agricultural policy. we agreed in the conference of presidents - my colleague barón crespo was not present last thursday - that we would not discuss this in plenary but would discuss with the member of the commission what had been said on thursday in the conference of presidents. i repeat here on behalf of our group: we are reaching out to every peace-loving muslim wherever he is at home in the world, whether outside the european union, in the arab and islamic states or in a country of the european union. we want peace, partnership and friendship with all muslims of good will! (applause from the centre)
madam president, i would like to say a few words on this subject. it's normal for one to win and the other to lose. but with a matter of such seriousness, we need reasonable preparation. mr barón crespo, on thursday last week - you were not there, i do not blame you, it happens to everyone - there would have been an opportunity to speak calmly about this at the conference of presidents. it would be good if the house voted together on such important matters. i would ask you to make it so that in future we can discuss this first in the conference of presidents. (applause from the group of the european people's party)
i have to say, madam president, i am one of those members of this house who does not necessarily come from a christian background. there was a statement recently by a statesman who should have been speaking as a statesman, but in the moment he made a statement about muslims and christians, i think he was actually quite wrong. i am deeply sorry that we were unable to agree on a common answer and that we had to discuss it. i am very sorry about this, because we are supposed to be countering the escalation. the dialogue between muslims and christians is particularly urgent. the italian president's speech was not enriching, but very counterproductive. i therefore regret that we have not been able to find a common response from this house.
madam president, mr poettering's very credible statements have shown that he represents only part of his group. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be a matter for the council and the commission. it would therefore be consistent if mr poettering were to ask his colleagues in the forza italia group to support the group's view, because what mr fiori said afterwards shows that it is not the christian-democratic group's view that mr poettering is expressing here, but only a partial view. madam president, i did not hear you myself, but several colleagues who were able to hear your statement on the radio and television said that you had taken an excellent position as the european parliament in relation to mr berlusconi's remarks and told me emphatically that nicole fontaine's position was exactly the position that the european parliament should take. i would like to congratulate you on this. but i would also ask you to do the following: since your position is clearly the majority opinion of this house, you should expressly re-convey that position to mr berlusconi and at the same time ask him - in order to remove any doubt - to comment on it. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which i think is a very useful one.
i have to say, madam president, i do not wish to reply to mr tajani, but i would like to make two points. i had not interrupted him but had listened attentively and, for once, allowed myself to laugh at his particularly clever remarks. if that's forbidden in this house! maybe in the italian situation, you can't laugh at the government anymore... i did not interrupt him, and i must say that it would not have been worthwhile to interrupt him in his explanations! * *
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the noise policy is not a mere political one, but that it is a policy which is a new one in an industrialized society which is moving forward with a lot of technology and a lot of noise, and the question whether noise policy is a question of subsidiarity can be answered with two hearts in one chest. mr davies or mr blokland, if i were from the countries they come from, i would certainly have the subsidiarity argument, but, mr blokland, i know of only two airports in the netherlands whose runways are above my constituency. so this is all relative, and so i think we need to talk about whether we can find a corridor where the basic criteria are put together, and i think we're not that far apart in terms of noise maps. i am in favour of having comparable measurement rules within the european union, and i am also in favour of having action plans based on these measurement results, which are of course drawn up by the member states and which must also be implemented and controlled by the member states. i am very interested in the question of when such a regulatory framework actually takes effect, and there is no doubt that the environment committee has gone too far. the commission's proposal is that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the noise levels are not exceeded. if you're going to do a noise map like this for six million cars a year, then i suggest you abandon this whole operation. so a good mean would be a good solution in my opinion. as far as the measurement of railway lines is concerned, it would have been nice if we had a different parameter here, because noise from railways is perceived differently from noise from motorways or airports. unfortunately, that was not accepted by the committee, which i regret very much. i would like to say, in contrast to my other highly esteemed colleague ria oomen, that i think it is a very bold statement to believe that we environmental politicians can decide in an environmental directive whether military aircraft are to fly or not. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that military aviation is not included in this directive and will not be included either; i think that this debate was necessary in principle. i would like to see this paper taken to the conciliation committee, because then, mr de roo, we will move from your somewhat exaggerated demands to realistic ones which will take us forward in the whole of the matter.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think we must, in our guidelines, consider whether we want to continue to exclude many public authorities, because of course it is irrelevant to the individual citizen whether the noise is coming from a civil or a military aircraft. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the noise pollution caused by the aircraft is not reduced to a level that is not acceptable to the individual. i think we should direct our collective efforts towards determining what is acceptable to people and what is not, and from that, what action should be taken. that's gonna take some research. for example, it has not yet been said whether an average load is particularly dangerous for someone or individual, very high loads. we need to know more about causes, effects and relationships. that is why we are asking for the directive not to be amended immediately, saying that we have the framework directive and we are attaching certain noise indices with certain limit values, but to be amended to say that we want to have the cadastre first and then in three years' time adopt subsidiary directives with quality standards for noise policy. secondly, i think it is at least as important to look at the individual noise sources again to see how we can implement them at european level, perhaps more quickly and effectively than with action plans on the ground. so we also need to reduce noise at the source.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this very long title covers essentially machines as we all know them: machines such as lawn mowers, chainsaws, hedge shears, drills - all these mobile machines which have perhaps been a little too little the focus of environmental legislation in recent years. we know, for example, that today a four-stroke mower emits about as much in one hour as a euro 4 car traveling at 150 km/h. or we know that on some days in june of this year, 40 percent of the hydrocarbon emissions come from these mobile machines, 40 percent of the ozone precursors. we must do something about it! the proposal for a directive is therefore also acceptable. the commission has already made a number of critical comments in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the first is that we wanted to bring the timetable forward somewhat, in line with what is happening in the united states in the legislative field. we wanted to see if the averaging and banking model might not be justified for europe, because it is a rather bureaucratic monster that is poorly controlled in europe and that therefore says little about whether the reduction targets we want are actually being achieved. we have taken a very ambitious approach in this respect in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the fact that the decision was taken in july, and therefore a little back, has given us the opportunity to negotiate this legislation with the council. i can now put forward a compromise package which the council is prepared to accept by a large majority, if not unanimously. i think we should go that route in this case and end the whole legislation in one reading. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. what is this compromise about? firstly, we want to bring forward the date of application for certain categories. that is about halfway between the decision of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and what the commission has proposed. secondly, we want to do away with the averaging and banking system because of the bureaucratic difficulties it entails. but we want to avoid creating distortions of competition for the time being because of environmental legislation which is not justified by environmental policy, we want to give exemptions to small manufacturers with 25,000 units a year and we want to give transitional rules for five years for certain products, for example, for certain chainsaws used high up in the trees or certain two-stroke engines used to drive drills. this is contained in amendment no 30, which allows additional time for these machines, which is also in line with what the industry is proposing. i cannot therefore support a way of taking certain equipment out of the directive altogether, but i say that if it is technically justified, we will give more time to these equipment. i would remind you that we took a very ambitious approach to the euro 3 and euro 4 car legislation and that we finally reached a reasonable compromise with the council in the conciliation committee, which of course did not necessarily meet with the approval of the industry at the beginning, but which is now being welcomed by everyone because it improves the air quality in europe. i believe that the compromise package i can present to you here is going in the same direction, except that it is already on the table and not after a conciliation procedure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of air in europe.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not mr turchi agrees with me. it's a powerful piece of equipment the council has to offer. the basic democratic values are being invoked in nice and in the same breath the ecsc treaty is being dissolved and a research fund set up, without parliament having any say in the matter. that, i must say, is a powerful piece! let's get back to the point. we are actually giving a funeral speech here, because we are burying a treaty which the european union initiated almost 50 years ago, but it is a strange death. it is a death with a rebirth, because from this treaty other treaties have emerged, and it is on its spirit that the european union is ultimately based. in this context, i would like to point out that robert schuman, at the paris conference on 9 may 1950 - 9 may is our european holiday - pointed out that this was the first stage of european federation. he did not speak of a federation of nation states, but of a european federation, and he has thus proved to be a man with far greater foresight than many of our statesmen and stateswomen and even some of my colleagues who still do not think of the word federation. i point out, or i assume, that this is also mentioned in the history books. secondly, this treaty is now to give rise to a research fund. mr turchi has pointed out that it is not just a matter of returning the money to the member states, but of putting it into a fund which will finance future coal and steel research. now, that creates problems. firstly, this fund is not controlled by parliament. this is the contradiction i mentioned earlier. secondly, it creates problems with the research framework programme. what is the difference between the research framework programme, which we are democratically deciding here, and the research fund? thirdly, what happens to the candidate countries? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this also creates several classes of research within the european union. i propose - and the research committee has also taken this up - that we resolve this conflict, and resolve it positively, by making this research fund, in the coming years, a research foundation, which will be created alongside the research framework programme, a research foundation, in which the member states, but also private individuals - and i am thinking above all of private individuals - can contribute funds to finance research projects other than coal and steel. fortunately, we now have many wealthy people who don't know what to do with their money when they reach a certain age, and they donate. and from those donations, that foundation can be built up, and it can work on issues that go far beyond coal and steel. i hope that parliament will accept this recommendation. the result would be that the commission would then think about it and perhaps present a report on how this could be implemented. we have experience of this in germany. in addition to the state funding for research, we have a research foundation which has been functioning well since the 1920s and, with little bureaucracy, gives a strong impetus to research in germany. if you could do this on a european scale, it would not be a bad idea. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i recommend we don't vote on this. they are in any case included in the turchi report and the amendments, so they are covered. so i recommend that we not vote on it. the commission has not yet taken a decision on this. there is a mistake here. i hope that this research fund will indeed become a second research arm of the european union in the next five or ten years. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. a treaty is expiring, but the foundation remains, because the foundation, the treaty of union of montan, has long since been incorporated into the fabric of the european union. we also remember the day of 9 may 1950, the day on which robert schuman presented the brilliant plan of jean monnet, from the south of france, and thus laid the foundations for what we now call the european peace project. the montanino treaty has two successors: firstly, what we are discussing today, and secondly, as regards future coal production, the aid issues which we shall deal with later. i would like to make four brief remarks on the two reports. first remark: the procedure proposed here is characterized by a pre-democratic understanding. in 1952 this was acceptable, but it is of course no longer acceptable to leave the council alone to decide when, for the fifth time, the citizens of the union have elected a democratic parliament, namely us. i want that clear. secondly, it is right to support research in the coal and steel sector with the annual revenue of eur 45 million. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but it is also right to consider how the committee, on the basis of mr linkohr's proposal, recommends that this fund be gradually transformed into a foundation, because then the problem of new member states would also be easier to solve than if they had to share the funds of the old contributors. third remark: the commission has rightly placed the research fund under the heading of fundamental rights, since the charter of fundamental rights is a summary of the law in force. this means that everything that is to be organised at european level must be in accordance with and linked to fundamental rights. i think it is a great achievement that the council, in its deliberations, has deleted these three commission proposals and wants to remove the reference to the charter of fundamental rights from the text. this is an incredible legal scandal that needs to be exposed here, and that's why i'm bringing it up. i am now on the fourth point, and i am particularly anxious to hear your answer, commissioner: you, as commissioner, had a different legal basis originally. now you refer to the protocol to the nice treaty and that is quite exciting because that nice treaty is not expected to come into force until 23 july 2002. but on that day the ecsc treaty will expire, and we cannot possibly allow a state of lawlessness to exist. i would therefore like to hear your answer, how you intend to proceed, what you propose to do so that on 23 july 2002, at midnight, at 24 o'clock, there will be no legal vacuum, which will then raise the interesting question of who actually owns the money that no longer has a right holder.
president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 4 september i presented to this house the white paper on european governance. i have already had some of the reactions of members of parliament. the committee on constitutional affairs and the committee on legal affairs have also begun to examine our proposals. today's debate is therefore taking place in the context of a debate which has already begun. i shall therefore make a few preliminary remarks to clear up some of the misunderstandings which have emerged in this debate, while remaining unwaveringly ready to respond to further remarks which will emerge in the course of this morning's debate. as is well known, the main purpose of the white paper on governance is to renew and reinvigorate the functioning of the institutional triangle, which operates according to the community method under the treaty currently in force. this complements and reinforces the constant policy pursued by the commission and its presidency in favour of institutional changes aimed at consolidating the role of the european parliament. the commission has always maintained that, in the institutional triangle, the body which is the expression of the people must play a central role, in balance with the representative body of the states, the council, and the body which represents the european public interest, the commission. the commission also supports the role of the court of justice in the european union based on the rule of law and human rights. this is a commitment we are pursuing consistently and steadily. our aim is to consolidate the legitimacy of this assembly and, with it, representative democracy. the white paper is inspired by this choice to strengthen representative democracy and to ensure that it functions properly and swiftly. the criticisms which have been voiced in recent weeks against that part of our proposals which seeks to clarify the distinction between legislative and executive functions are, in my view, based on a misunderstanding. i have heard, for example, that the commission would ask for a blank cheque in respect of the executive function, outside the legitimate control of parliament. that is not true, and the reading of the white paper clearly shows that. the commission suggests that parliament, the council and the commission all take a step back and return to their institutional tasks. the commission must therefore present fewer proposals, more targeted proposals, focusing on the executive function. the council must play its role as legislator and not as executor. finally, parliament has primary responsibilities in monitoring the implementation of policies and in the budgetary field. it therefore goes far beyond its simple role as a co-legislator. the white paper's proposals are therefore ambitious: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the callback option is in fact flawed in that it merely partially modifies the system currently in force, which we all know is seriously flawed, without, however, addressing its fundamental shortcomings. as the white paper shows, what is needed is structural change that clarifies who is responsible for implementing policies. this is essential to know who will be held accountable, in accordance with the principle of accountability which is a fundamental part of the functioning of democratic institutions. the white paper calls for the commission to play a policy-implementing role and questions the need for the current system of regulatory and management committees. the prospect of enlargement also makes it urgent to review comitology. but the white paper also makes it very clear that the new legislation which you will be discussing on the basis of the commission's final proposal will have to define the conditions and limits of this executive role. it also added that a simple legal arrangement was needed to enable the council and parliament placed on an equal footing to monitor and control the actions of the executive. we are already considering the various possible ways in which this mechanism could work, but at this stage it seems more appropriate to precede this proposal by a hearing phase. we therefore expect to receive an important contribution in this respect from the consultative committees of the member states, as well as from the work of this house. in the white paper, the commission also committed itself to improving its consultation methods in the preparation of its policy proposals. it has been suggested by some that these proposals would jeopardise the role of parliament. i sincerely believe that this does not correspond to reality and, in any case, does not correspond to our intentions. it is clear that we have never proposed and will never propose replacing the role of parliament or other democratically elected institutions with forms of spontaneous aggregation of organised civil society, which we call 'non-governmental organisations'. these associations play an important role in raising awareness and integrating our society and we therefore want to benefit from a relationship with them. this relationship, which - i repeat - has nothing to do with the role of democratically elected institutions, is now being carried out in an opaque and confused way. we must therefore put our present practices in order. we need guidelines in particular to make this process more transparent and structured than it is at present. and we need guidance on how we use experts in policy-making. all these elements will improve the way in which the commission exercises its right of initiative. having a targeted and comprehensible system for interacting with both democratically elected structures at local level and, albeit in a markedly different form, with civil society, will ensure greater transparency and efficiency than current consultation practices. in any event, the treaty remains unchanged and all decisions will continue to be taken by the appropriate institutions, in accordance with the democratic rules in force. the white paper thus opens the way to an interinstitutional debate on how to improve consultation of all the institutions. we do not consider these proposals to be definitive, however, and are therefore open to suggestions and alternative proposals, provided they are aimed at achieving the same results. i also understand that there are some concerns about the new forms of regulation that the white paper proposes. some fear that they could weaken the role of parliament. a closer examination of the white paper should, however, convince you that the commission is, like you, determined not to diminish but to increase the role of parliament. the white paper therefore proposes to place new forms of regulation, such as self-regulation, within the framework of principles and practices which ensure democratic control. as for the creation of regulatory agencies which will only be able to take technical and case-by-case decisions such a creation will obviously require a legislative act. parliament will therefore be fully involved in the elaboration of the rules and the necessary guarantees accompanying the adoption of this act. we must therefore strike the right balance between the need to set the objectives and the essential elements of european legislation and the need to remain flexible and able to react to rapid social and economic changes. in this spirit, the white paper therefore proposes, for the first time, to involve parliament in the complex process of implementing the open method of coordination. these forms of intergovernmental cooperation in the frontier areas of community law must necessarily be based on a logic compatible with the functioning of the institutional triangle. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the main challenge facing europe today is a political one. the laeken summit is just around the corner, and it should set the stage for the next intergovernmental conference. governance is already part of that debate. changing the way the institutions operate - the purpose of the white paper - and changing the institutions themselves - the purpose of future treaty amendments - are obviously two different but closely linked issues. that is why i said that the debate on the options presented in the white paper on governance is a first step in the debate on the future of the union. this phase, although it operates as a permanent right and therefore with the limitations that this entails, cannot be reduced to a mere academic debate but must be concretized in precise operational proposals. this will increase the trust of european citizens in the way the union works. this is essential. we must immediately win back the confidence of our fellow citizens by using the existing rules correctly and efficiently. this will then give us greater legitimacy to call for the necessary amendments to the treaty. however, acting quickly must not mean acting without waiting for the necessary maturation of the options and reflections, especially those taking place within this house. it is therefore clear that i do not intend to make any proposals until you have worked out your views on the matter. the commission is aware that the renewal process set out in the white paper can only be successful if the european parliament and the council have the political will to make a joint effort and begin to change the way we operate within the framework of the existing treaty. i am therefore in favour of forms of dialogue between the union institutions - if necessary also through a joint working group of the commission, parliament and council - to examine in depth our proposals on governance. i thank you sincerely in advance for your commitment and your help. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has had a great success story in the 51 years of its existence, since the beginning of the european unification process, since the declaration of robert schuman. the common market, the common currency, the approaches of european foreign and security policy have made us a zone of peace, law and security, and we are here to set an example for many regions of the world. but why is it that the action of the various institutions of the european union is not perceived by our citizens as it should be, as it should be expected? why is there so little positive response? the question then immediately arises: what is wrong with the european union in its external appearance, but also in the way we design and implement our policies? this question is of course the basis for the commission's paper, the commission's white paper of 25 july this year, and we are very pleased that president prodi is discussing this issue with us today for the second time and is also offering us - as has just happened - to cooperate in a joint working group. i think that is an excellent proposal and one which we should adopt constructively and quickly. the question therefore arises: why is this image in the public mind of the member states of the european union - i do not want to say so gloomy, but so tainted - so that we cannot say that the european union is going from failure to failure? i think it is crucial that the commission states at the beginning of the white paper that it must refocus on its core area of activity. the european commission must not become entangled in a multitude of individual proposals and decisions, where it is not always possible to see the common policies strategy in practice. i think that there are still some questions which we should examine before we can find the answers we need. we are pleased to note that the commission has taken a critical look at its previous actions - i believe this is necessary for every institution - and will accordingly, after discussion with us, adopt the necessary changes. we also support the commission's intention to concentrate on certain areas, although we must say that the commission will then have to do the corresponding press work. it must explain to the citizens clearly and unambiguously what european legislation is and how it is to be implemented. a second important point is involved. it is not worth while for the commission - and i think it has largely abandoned this notion - to create its own sub-structures and sub-structures in the regions. it should be based on the existing public authorities at national, regional and even local level in the implementation of community law. the commission should not be organising direct cooperation down to the last district and the last medium-sized town. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided to citizens is not distorted. the commission's framework legislation should reflect the possibility of implementation at regional and national level, and here the commission's first proposal of 25 july seems to me to be blurring the various levels too much. so, what is co-regulation? open coordination between the two sides? how european agencies or not? all these questions will have to be discussed in our joint working group.
- madam president, mr president of the commission! i am very pleased that we have the opportunity today to discuss the white paper again together, because european governance is indeed a central issue and, in my view - and i want to make this very clear - the future viability of the european union depends to a large extent on this issue. i can only agree with my colleague voggenhuber: i believe that the central issue in the whole governance debate is democracy, the strengthening of democracy and above all the strengthening of citizens' rights, particularly in the sense of the charter of fundamental rights. because one thing is clear: the best policy is useless if it does not reach the citizens or if we have a situation such as the present one, where they say that what they are doing in brussels is far from me and the worries of the day that i have! i think, mr president of the commission, that the citizens rightly expect two things: firstly, transparency of decisions and, secondly, clarity as regards political responsibility for decisions. i think that this must be the central starting point for joint reflection, both for the commission and, of course, for the other institutions. let me take the example of transparency. the white paper mentions a cumbersome system of almost 700 advisory bodies on which the commission relies. if i remember correctly, you yourself have already raised this very point in the white paper on the reform of the commission, and there too, in june of this year, you announced that you would publish these advisory bodies. in the present white paper you envisage these bodies being published by the end of the year. i am in favour of it - yes, absolutely! this is a matter of transparency, which may also help to reduce prejudice against the work of the commission or the other institutions. but publishing advisory bodies is one thing, taking political responsibility for decisions - in my view - is another. the second point i would like to raise in the white paper is the keyword 'culture of consultation and dialogue'. yes, i think that's a very good suggestion. i think that the commission, the council and parliament would do well to think together about how to create a new culture of consultation and dialogue in the sense of involving civil society more. i thought it would be better if the commission did not propose a code of conduct for minimum standards of consultation for itself, but if we could think together about whether there might not be possibilities in an interinstitutional agreement for all three institutions to be jointly bound. you have spoken of such a dialogue, of the possible setting up of a working group, and i would like to take up that suggestion.
- madam president! - what is it? i had to applaud mr beazley for his excellent speech. mr prodi, i thank you for making it clear here today that you will not put forward any proposals to change the institutional situation without a clear vote of the european parliament as a directly elected body and without its approval. that's more than we've heard before, and i'm glad of it. at the same time, i thank you for trying to clear up any misunderstandings. but some of them stayed with me. i hope you can also remove these in your reply. you said there would be fewer proposals from the commission. there's no objection to that if you explain to us how the new vacuum is being filled. because you know and i know and my colleagues know: the maastricht, amsterdam and nice treaties have very clearly defined the role of the european parliament in the legislative field, the role of the commission and the council. if you say that there will be fewer commission proposals, that means that you want to put forward framework proposals, for example. mr prodi, if you want this, you must ensure that there is a callback mechanism, a callback mechanism and a reform of the comitology. this is not, as you said, a disadvantage of the present system, but an essential requirement for any ideas or proposals you may have for the future. no one in parliament wants framework proposals, but if you want them, you must accompany them with decent democratic measures which do not infringe on parliament's rights. you say you want more modern measures like voluntary commitment; no one in this parliament wants that. but if you want to do so, you must protect democratic rights within the european union and ensure that there is an interinstitutional agreement which leaves the rights of parliament, the council and the commission intact. you said that the white paper opens up the way for an interinstitutional debate. yes, it opens one. but i ask you, mr prodi, to make it clear that you do not want to go back beyond the maastricht, nice and amsterdam treaties and that you share the view of the majority of our colleagues on what i have said here. no piece of legislation can be passed without the support of this european parliament. there can be no voluntary self-agreements and no framework agreement without democracy being protected. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, mr president of the commission! the white paper calls on parliament to take the concerns of its electorate more seriously into the political debate. but, mr president of the commission, that means that i insist that in the 21st century democracy should continue to be associated with the word 'parliamentary' and not with the word 'consultative'. (applause from the centre) we do not want to go back to a history of pre-parliamentary democracy, and that should not be linked to this white paper. the framework legislation and the use of other regulatory mechanisms can only be a good way if it is accompanied by guarantees. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. it is not only a privilege of this parliament to insist on it, it is an obligation of this parliament to insist on it. you want more transparency and participation through consultation, but who are you excluding, who are you including? those associations and ngos that can pay for expertise with money will have more opportunities than those that cannot. will it not also be the case that the views of some can be made clearer than those of others? is this not exacerbating the arms gap between different sections of civil society in the european union? i am in favour of equality of the actors and also of the institutions. i think that the white paper does not provide sufficient clarity here. i ask you to clarify this, because i have to say that in the context of financial market legislation, the implementation of the financial action plan, the commission is happy to give one co-legislator a better position than the other co-legislator, the european parliament. i don't think that's a very promising path. this imbalance must be overcome. the next intergovernmental conference will of course also have to amend article 202 by creating a right of withdrawal. but even now the commission could show good will and make it clear that it does not want to change the balance of the institutions by sneaky means. we have a duty to society as a parliament, because parliamentary activity is not only control but also design. i do not want to leave this to committees whose chairmen are not democratically elected, nor are they elected by parliament, as is the case in the united states. (applause from the centre)
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased with today's debate, which has shown a convergence of views, a majority of points of agreement and, above all, a common working methodology. i would say that we have laid the foundations for closing this phase of reform together, and that we can operate with unchanged legislation. a common concern has also emerged which, although not part of today's debate, is closely linked to it: the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to bring about a change in the political situation in the community. i would like to say that many criticisms have been made of the pluralism of european voices, the pluralism with which europe would have been present in washington after the tragedy. let us not confuse this with pluralism of attitudes. the content was absolutely unique: we have spoken with one voice in washington and, at the end of the debate, we have presented to president bush the european position, which has been a very operative one, with specific cooperation on justice and home affairs, on the financial problem of money laundering, areas in which we have proposed lines of action on which europe must converge. as regards the concerns of the citizens, i believe that part of them stem from the complexity of our working procedures, their lack of comprehensibility, problems which the white paper is attempting - albeit partially - to address by deepening the democratic system and transparency and by making its decisions more efficient and faster, while fully respecting, or rather increasing, the prerogatives of parliament. i therefore reiterate at the end of this short debate that we intend to arrive at a clarification of our respective roles, in which, however, no one questions the role of political control of the european parliament and the council over the executive work of the commission. we not only recognize this control but we absolutely need it - and i repeat what mr corbett said in his last speech. i also want to stress - and here i must confess that the misunderstanding was due to a failure on the part of the commission, to a bad wording on the part of the commission - that the commission does not intend to take any decision, before laeken or at any other time, without consulting parliament. we have stressed the need for speed in decision-making, but in any case we will have to consult parliament thoroughly first. today, however, we also made some progress. some suggestions have been made by mr kauffmann and others which are extremely useful. the idea of organising a joint parliament-council-commission group to establish an institutional code of conduct within the framework of existing rules is a way that i think we need to explore. we must be clear about this objective, namely to define a practice which will make the decisionmaking process easier, because - i repeat - it is slow and not understood. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is prepared to consider this option. i ask myself, in all honesty and without any ill will, whether the council will be prepared to: we are ready, anyway. i would ask that parliament be politically determined to do so. this debate also prepares the debate on the future of europe which the convention will have to organise. i believe that starting now in the directions outlined here will help to find the most appropriate institutional solutions later. there was a point of formal disagreement today, which we shall have to discuss in the context we have outlined, namely what is called the call-back. i believe that the present system of comitology is a distortion of democracy, and that is why we have criticized it. this mixes legislative and executive functions, but without any real political control. the callback proposal ostensibly improves the situation, but in fact it makes the system more confusing because it makes our functions less distinct, the diversity of our functions. i think that is what we must focus our discussion on in the future in these bodies that we have proposed, so as to clarify this point: we must work together for a system where the commission implements, the european parliament and the council politically scrutinise before measures are adopted. if there is always this possibility of going backwards, then parliament will of course end up with a narrow executive function. i repeat: i am absolutely not only in good faith but with an absolutely clear mind that this is an extremely sensitive point of democratic control. the same methodology must be used for the problem of agencies. the commission believes that they are necessary in certain cases, but we must not multiply them indefinitely, but only use them when there are very complex technical roles and they have their own autonomy. we agree with you, however, that democratic control of these agencies is needed, and that control is carried out in three ways: the european parliament is a key part of this decision, together with the council. when its budget is audited, and the european parliament audits it; the commission's role is to monitor the way in which the commission, which is the body responsible for these agencies, operates. that is the commission's approach. two other points have emerged here, which are contained in or linked to the white paper but not contained in it: the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european environment agency. i believe that an active role for regions and local authorities is absolutely necessary, also in the future convention. if we really define europe as the europe of subsidiarity, we must be at least somewhat consistent, and i have no reservations about that. on the question of consulting civil society, if we read the white paper carefully, there is no expropriation of parliamentary bodies, democratically elected bodies. in fact, there's another saying: while civil society is now consulted in a hidden, indirect way, we propose that this consultation be made transparent and be held in the light of day, so that it is known where certain ideas and positions come from, where certain suggestions come from. and that, in my view, is a step forward. i understand that this may have caused concern because, in the face of such a clear demonstration of a process, parliament can also say: "but this replaces our role!" i can assure you that this is done with the opposite objective in mind: i mean, we have to consult civil society because it's good for us and it's good for you, but consulting is consulting. it is absolutely unacceptable that this should have a decision-making aspect in a field which can be confused with or compared with that of parliament. i say this clearly because you have never heard from the commission, for example, a proposal to include civil society in the convention with a role in which there are decision-making aspects. but i think that consultation, with transparency and clarity, is a step forward that we absolutely must take. i repeat: it was never our intention to give an institutional or constitutional role to consultation with civil society, although it is our concern to understand what is happening in the context of this society, and therefore to keep our eyes and ears open and a strong sensitivity to what is happening. it is also in a sense the suggestion that was made by mr perry to participate in the committee on petitions, so that we too have our eyes open. the commission's proposals have two objectives: first, a more parliamentary democracy; second, a more efficient democracy. in the report to parliament, therefore, the problem of call-backs must be brought into this context. we want a more parliamentary democracy, where the role of parliament is clear and precise, but also more efficient, where the executive role is not constantly called into question by procedures. i believe that this can be clarified by the proposal to work together on these issues in the coming months and thus create an advantage, a future progress in our way of working, for now with unchanged legislation, therefore pending the great institutional reform process, which will have to start from the laeken summit. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you very much, mr prodi! i would like to add a comment: at the convention on the charter of fundamental rights, we had a positive experience in listening to representatives of civil society, but they were not members of the convention.
president of the commission. - mr president, there was probably a translation problem. i repeat the key phrase of the last part of my speech: we have never said - and we say it again today - that civil society can play a decisive role. this is reserved for parliament, the council and our institutions. we simply want the consultation to be more transparent, clearer and more comprehensible.
- thank you very much, mr prodi! i think that now things are indeed clearer. actually, some of my colleagues were a little surprised, but i think we all know what you meant by that now. mr. minister, you have the floor. you know very well that if the president of the commission has anything else to say, we are always happy to give him the opportunity to do so.
- the agenda calls for a joint discussion on asylum and immigration policy.
- draftsman of the opinion of the committee on petitions. - mr president, i have to go. the millions of immigrants who have arrived in recent decades have been mainly against the will of the state. the national policy on foreigners is in most cases short-sighted, lacks the capacity to shape it and is characterized by fear of alienation. but now it is undeniable that there has been and will be, and must be, a significant amount of immigration. the reasons for this are detailed on 28 pages of the commission's communication. the commission's change of policy towards an active immigration policy is very welcome. the commission recognises that migratory pressures will continue and that there are benefits that regular immigration can bring to europe, to the migrants themselves but also to their countries of origin. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a long-term immigration policy can reduce the overall pressure that results from illegal entry, trafficking in human beings, illegal work and economic exploitation of migrants. the commission's communication also states that third country nationals must be granted the same rights as eu citizens and that their work must contribute to the development of the local economy. this is the only way to achieve the integration we want. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission's communication on a common asylum procedure, a uniform standard and a uniform status for recognised asylum seekers has stimulated the necessary debate and has been deliberately opened up by you, commissioner vitorino, at first. possible scenarios are presented and the possibilities of a common procedure and uniform principles are examined. i deeply regret that - unlike the pirker report - no broad compromise could be found in the committee. the evans report, unfortunately, does not have the rationality of consensus, but the ideology. both the grounds for granting asylum and the procedure are now to be extended to cover europe as a whole, and this - mr president-in-office of the council, you have mentioned this - despite the fact that at present some 90% of asylum seekers seek asylum solely on economic grounds and are therefore rejected, and despite the fact that the current review procedures take up to eight years. such expansions can only be decided upon when one has really lost contact with the home base altogether. what will happen to us if these regulations, as mr evans proposes them today, become a reality, if non-state persecution and persecution on grounds of sex are also recognised as grounds for asylum in the future? this is in practice the issuing of an indefinite residence permit for the eu to most families in the islamic world. why would you do that? i want to explain. no one will deny that in every country of islam there are fundamentalist groups that use islam to discriminate against women's rights as we know them from our values. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of women are respected. if this were recognised in the eu, she could then also catch up with her family. the question that arises is: are we willing and able to solve the problems of the muslim world, are we willing and able to solve the problems of the image of islamic women in europe? my answer is no. it is all the more obvious now that we are all aware of the problems and risks of the past few weeks. at the same time, contrary to his initial announcement, mr evans wants to abolish the safe third country status and thus burden the already too long procedure with additional checks. i therefore conclude that the evans report is irresponsible in its present form. it provides the member states with sufficient arguments to prevent us from being given a right to co-decision on this subject in the context of further eu reforms. it is clear that a majority in this house is not yet mature enough to take on such a responsibility. and, mr evans, if you are in favour of extending the right of asylum, i wonder what your own party, the labour party in britain, has done in this direction in recent years. i'm telling you, she didn't decide these things exactly the way she did. that's because they don't have a majority in the population and labour would have to face a by-election. mr president-in-office of the council, i want to say quite explicitly, and it is obvious: if we want to regulate every detail of the right of asylum in europe in the future, we will not be able to reach an agreement in the council of ministers. i would therefore ask you to limit your efforts to harmonizing the minimum standards necessary.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to start with the reports by mr evans and mr pirker, who are very sympathetic, and then turn to the underlying communication by mr vitorino, a colleague whom we greatly appreciate from our joint work in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and whose opinion i share very little. we are having a fundamental debate on asylum and immigration in europe. that is what the guidelines on asylum and immigration in europe are about. we must be clear about two things: firstly, the quotas to be applied and secondly, the content. as far as methodology is concerned, european directives on asylum and immigration can only be minimum standards. the european union as a whole can only be bound by minimum standards. anything beyond that will not be accepted. the commission's proposal on family reunification, for example, may please some people, but it cannot be a binding response for the whole of the union. corrections must be made here. the substance of the matter is that we need to limit and control immigration. mr president-in-office, you mentioned the concept of 'fortress europe'. the fact that we do not want to build a fortress europe, and cannot build one, is precisely why we must control and limit immigration. the commissioner's course is not sufficient to meet these requirements. just to give you a few examples: the concept of a safe third country has enabled us to reduce the number of asylum seekers in germany from about 450 000 to well below 100 000. mr vitorino is practically abandoning this concept by attaching conditions to its application which render it practically inapplicable. secondly, the substantive grounds for asylum are defined in the geneva convention on refugees. it will be an incentive for asylum seekers if we go beyond the binding framework of the refugee convention, such as non-state persecution. there are honourable arguments for this in the individual case, but we cannot allow more asylum than is currently the case. the problem of asylum is a procedural one. we are still faced with 90 per cent of all asylum seekers who are not politically persecuted. that is why we must get the process under control. if we can get the process over quickly, we can be more generous with the asylum grounds. but the three-stage asylum procedure proposed by commissioner vitorino is not. mr vitorino, if mr schily, the german minister of the interior, who is not a member of my party, acts in the council as he speaks in germany, then your proposals have no chance! (applause from the centre)
- mr wiebenga, we also wish you good luck, and i am convinced that the state will be in good hands if you are in this council of state! my dear colleagues, i must beg you to adhere strictly to the time of speech, for we have already far exceeded the time.
- mr president, i have to go. first of all, i would like to thank commissioner vitorino. commissioner, you have taken seriously the call of many migration experts and ngos and in two communications you have made it clear how policy should deal with refugees and traditional migrants. with your communication on a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for the whole of the union, you have succeeded in putting forward good proposals for the harmonization of asylum policy. now we can use your suggestions to find concrete solutions. the rapporteur, mr evans, has also made this point very well. i regard his additions as a good addition to the current debate on specific directives. the commission has also succeeded in making clear, in its communication on a community migration policy, the importance of jointly managing and regulating future migration in the european union. however, we will probably have to continue to debate the wishes of the nation states, which i take very seriously. they want to shape the fine-tuning of migration themselves, even though their strategies have failed for decades at the national level. i expect that we will soon be able to convince our colleagues at national level that there is no alternative to eu-wide management of migration.
- mr president, this was not on the agenda. and i will not allow another debate to be opened. we now move to the vote.
- my dear colleague, i suggest you sit in another seat, perhaps the device works there. and i'm going to ask our services again to send a technician to you. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
- in accordance with rule 69 (2) of the rules of procedure, we have a request for a postponement of the vote which i put to the vote in the house. (parliament decided to postpone the vote) - the matter is therefore referred to the committee responsible. before the final vote on the second proposal:
- in accordance with rule 69 (2) of the rules of procedure, we have a request for a postponement of the vote which i put to the vote in the house. (parliament decided to postpone the vote) - the matter is therefore referred to the committee responsible. (parliament adopted the resolution)
- mr linkohr, rapporteur. - (de) mr president, i should like to thank you for your reply.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. as a reporter, i can only agree with that. i am not a lawyer myself, so i would like to know what the commission's position would be if nice were not ratified before the expiry of the treaty, because in my view this creates a legal vacuum, and that should be examined. i would therefore like to support what mrs ahern has asked for. but now that i have the floor, i would like to point out that amendments nos 1 to 5 are based on a misunderstanding. we didn't vote for it in committee. the content of these amendments is contained in the turchi report - and no one should be worried about that - but i recommend that we do not vote on them today, and as far as i have the right to ask for it, i am asking for it.
- i would be happy to put this request to the house. we shall now vote on the request of our colleague mr linkohr, but not on amendments nos 1 to 5. (parliament adopted the proposal) before the final vote:
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it is enough to examine the turchi report, but because of paragraphs 8 and 9 i really want to stress that we should actually vote on the resolution now. i ask you to vote in favour.
- mr president, i have to go. the report is more critical of arms exports than any report by mr titley has ever been. we must nevertheless note that neither in the area of parliamentary control nor in the area of transparency are the demands really achieving their objectives. in the field of parliamentary control there is no need for a formal provision for the european parliament to give an opinion, and that is the minimum to give us a certain degree of influence. i am even more critical of transparency. mr titley is talking about transparency in the form of a framework agreement. but we know that the framework agreement between six eu countries to promote the defence industry and a global defence market is precisely the most opaque procedure that has ever existed, that it lays down what has existed so far, namely no parliamentary control and no debate, even for the conclusion and ratification of this agreement. that has to change. (applause from the centre)
madam president, the terrible images of new york today, exactly three weeks ago, are deeply ingrained in us. the rapid expressions of solidarity from europe and its nato partners have not been forgotten. the united states has now proved that it is not pursuing a cowboy policy but is weighing every step in the fight against terrorism, and at the latest now should be the time for thanks and appreciation to be transported across the atlantic. but what happens to it? we in germany, for example, are playing the united states and even dare to set up rules of conduct. the european parliament has already taken a step back from the united states, and in some cases there is even a distasteful anti-americanism. i am ashamed of this as a german european, especially in view of the fact that some 100 germans were murdered in new york on 11 september. i understand that the united states, despite the declaration of a ceasefire today, does not want to involve its 19 nato partners, with the possible exception of the united kingdom, in the military response to the terrorists and their supporters. with a little bit of suspicion, and i say this as a reserve paratrooper, you can't fight a battle and win. this is a poor testament to europe, especially since the destroyed twin towers in new york have their symbolic counterparts all over the eu! the possible target for the us counter-strike is likely to be afghanistan. the inhabitants of this country, which has been polluted for decades, are leaving their homes en masse. they vegetate in refugee camps in pakistan. these people deserve the full solidarity of the eu and of our parliament. eu aid should be unbureaucratic and fast. it should be borne in mind that the winters are very harsh there. if we do not help now, it is to be feared that the many young refugees will run after some fundamentalist rat catchers. the european parliament should consider whether it would not be advisable to send a parliamentary delegation of members of the parliament's committee on development assistance to pakistan as soon as possible. direct impressions are always better than thick paper reports!
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the subject, and i am sure that the council will be able to take them into account in its decision on the transeuropean transport networks. the transeuropean transport network has been the backbone of our internal market since its conception in the maastricht treaty and, thanks to the guidelines we adopted jointly in 1996, the european union has a network of european interest that allows the interconnection of all our regions and facilitates the mobility of people and goods. these transeuropean networks are the first attempt since roman times to really look at europe's infrastructures in a global and integrated way. the revision we are proposing today is intended to bring the development of this system up to date and to add new priority projects which respond to the problems of the challenges which our common transport policy has posed in recent years. the liberalisation of transport systems and the increase in demand for mobility have led to an imbalance between the different modes of transport and have contributed to the creation of bottlenecks in some areas of our infrastructure. both the gothenburg summit and the white paper on transport adopted on 12 september have identified these pathologies and have called on the commission to take urgent measures to alleviate them. in today's proposal the commission recommends that eight new rail, combined transport, inland waterway and intelligent transport networks, namely the galileo project, be included among the priority projects in addition to the so-called essen projects, and that three of the initial projects already completed be withdrawn. the new projects would be: first, a railway crossing of the pyrenees which will allow the natural barrier separating the iberian peninsula from the rest of the continent to be overcome. the second is the high-speed train, combined east-west transport, from paris to vienna, which will later be extended to budapest and which will complete our network, opening the door to enlargement. the third is the navigability of the danube between straubing and vilshofen, which will connect the north sea with the black sea, thus improving the interconnection between the danube and the rhine. the fourth is the galileo satellite positioning system, whose priority has been recognized by successive european councils and by this house. the fifth is the firm connection between germany and denmark via fehmarn on the orensund model, which will improve the interconnection of the nordic countries with the rest of the continent. the sixth is the interoperability of the high-speed rail network in the iberian peninsula, adapting it to the track gauge of the rest of the european continent, which will reduce congestion both on land and in the air. the seventh is the extension of the brenner project from munich to verona, up to naples, by adding the bologna-milan section. and the eighth is the extension of the southern high speed train to nîmes, which will enable the connection between the south and the north of europe. the overall investment required for these projects, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, will amount to more than 66 billion euros, which should obviously be financed mainly through national, regional, private, public and also, possibly, community funds. its geographical scope covers the whole of our territory and will have a decisive impact on the competitiveness of our economy. we also took advantage of this review to include in the transeuropean networks some minor technical adaptations of existing projects which were left outstanding after the conciliation on the 1996 package of guidelines. we have committed ourselves in the transport white paper to this most urgent and priority review being followed in 2004 by another which will include in greater detail the projects of the new countries of the union. it would be premature, ladies and gentlemen, to do so now, because, despite the preparatory work, which is well advanced, important information is still missing which we can only obtain in the last phase of enlargement. the next revision will therefore be examined by this parliament, and that is a political commitment which i confirm again to this house. mr president, it is a source of great satisfaction for me to be able to fulfil the council's mandates and the new imperatives of our common transport policy in this way. now that the white paper and the review of the transeuropean networks have been presented, i hope and hope that parliament will make its contributions, which have obvious added value, in the context of codecision. i know, ladies and gentlemen, that if this is what the commission has approved today, there are other facts in the current affairs, namely the consequences for the air transport sector of the events of 11 september, which will eventually require the attention of the honourable members. i will of course answer any questions you may have on this subject.
- mr president, i have to go. i am very grateful to you, madam vice-president, for giving us this interim report. we are dissatisfied with the member states, because they have basically let you down over the last year and a half. the interim report on the transeuropean networks has been due since 1999. we thank you for presenting it now. our first question is: you have stated in your report that you want to add, but you also want to insist that projects which have not yet been implemented by the member states - such as the brenner base tunnel - should now finally be implemented. so my question to you is: how are we going to get together, perhaps by changing the financing, to build such important projects as the brenner base tunnel from the old project, but also new projects such as the link between france and spain through the pyrenees or the fixed fehmarn belt crossing between denmark and germany? my second question - madam vice-president, you have indicated this - is: when will you tell us in committee or in the house what your policy will be to combat new competition in the field of subsidies to air transport? on the other hand, the question arises as to how airlines can be helped after the tragic events of september 11.
- mr president, i have to go. i think we can agree with the commissioner's statement of principle. i can agree with what mr jarzembowski said. i would like to ask the commissioner if she agrees with us that we can learn from the experience we have had with the tens so far. experience has shown, for example, that when heads of state or government adopt a list, it does not necessarily have to be of a higher quality than what parliament has decided to prioritise. for example, can we use this experience to our advantage? the commission's approach in the white paper, namely a high concentration on rail and waterways, i think is very, very supportive. the question is whether we should not review all the financial instruments, not just the money we have for the tens, in this respect. if the tens are the only priority for rail and waterways, then we must also look at the other funds, for example the cohesion fund and others, and see whether these should not also consistently take account of these new priorities. these are the two questions.
- mr president, i have to go. the terrible experiences in america have given galileo, the european satellite navigation system, a new political and economic perspective, as i understand it. in the past, member states have often been reluctant to support their good initiative. do you think there is now a new willingness among the member states to implement galileo rapidly?
- mr president, madam commissioner, mr minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. the durban world conference on racism was, from the outset, overshadowed by a political strategy of discrimination. arab states have tried to accuse israel of racism. they wanted to make the arab world the victim of israeli racism, which would then be condemned at the conference. that was a low-level strategy. they tried to exploit this important conference. but a thorough discussion of this strategy and of the conference as a whole failed after the terrible events of september 11. we now have a situation in which the entire arab world is in danger of being called a racist prank. there is a danger that all people of arab origin or from islamic cultural circles will be blamed for the actions of a small terrorist group. it can be done openly and violently. unfortunately, there are examples of this. but it can also be done in secret through a basic distrust. in any case, it is a creeping poison that is seeping into our open society and is burdening it. it would be a victory for the terrorists. that's why we won't let it happen! let us not follow the bad example that overshadowed the durban conference. we in the european parliament in particular must be careful not to put people into a box too quickly on the basis of nationality and religion. let us be an example! let us continue to be open and tolerant. but let the terrorists be right: they are persecuted with all the severity, regardless of race or religion. we can do something about racism here. this is worth more than all the conferences in the world! the fact that we are now debating this in durban should be noted.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we're late for the meeting. we are running out of time, and galileo in particular. the longer the european union hesitates to launch the european satellite navigation system, the less interested the industry and the public will be in reacting. the last danger is that galileo will be buried one day. i am particularly concerned about the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the opinion of the european parliament on the commission's communication is not a legislative one, but it is an important guideline. the european parliament will adopt my report tomorrow - and i hope by a large majority - and thereby support the position that a european satellite navigation system of its own is urgently needed, not least in view of the particular situation in which the world and europe have found themselves since 11 september. this is the basic view of the council, as was reaffirmed in the stockholm conclusions. but how can we dispel the doubts which arise again and again, even in the amendments before us? the basic question remains: why do we need a european satellite navigation system of our own when the americans have already supplied a working model with gps? let me give you some of the main arguments. firstly, the american system is military in design, with its corresponding disadvantages in terms of continuous availability, accuracy and also legal certainty. we are talking about reliability, and that must be guaranteed even in times of crisis. we must all be clear that the sovereignty and security of europe would be seriously threatened if the navigation systems were to escape european control. we need a civil system of our own, but one which is open to all - and i stress all - potential users. i am sorry, therefore, that i cannot support the amendments tabled by the gue/ngl group, which call for a purely civilian application. secondly, we are in favour of free competition within the union, but also in the world. it is therefore not surprising that we should be willing to accept a monopoly of a foreign state and expose our users to what may not be optimal services. we must be involved here in the interests of our citizens and users. thirdly, the european union would be falling far behind in the high-tech sector if it did not have its own system. this can't be intentional. no, we want europe to be at the forefront, and that is what galileo is for. fourthly, galileo is creating jobs in europe. these jobs are highly skilled and are being created in a field with a future - high technology. the development of the infrastructure and the various applications can create up to 100 000 jobs in the coming years and generate a high return on the market. so why is galileo important for europe? in my report i have detailed the advantages and positive aspects of the different fields of application. these benefits become even more convincing when other countries are involved. for example, china has recently expressed itself positively at the brussels meeting. europe is capable of creating its own system. we will not hold back the galileo praline, but we will offer it to the partners if they so wish, and we will share the great benefits with the partners. from the beginning, we have placed a great deal of emphasis on compatibility with other systems, because we want to offer the best possible benefits. the industry is showing interest. this is not only evident from the letters of intent for eur 200 million which the commission has received, but we must not overtax our industry. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the preparatory work carried out by the commission and the european space agency deserves the highest praise. i am, however, looking forward to the commission's approach to financing and administration, as called for in the report. this concept will be another building block and a solid pillar for the construction of the satellite navigation system. galileo is a community project. the first community project in this field! so a vision for the future! let us get started here, instead of waiting for st. nicholas day, because galileo will revolutionize transport and mobility - as the internet has done. success stories - and we already have some in europe - require thought, courage and decisiveness. let us seize this historic moment in the vote tomorrow.
- madam president, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs mcnally, on behalf of my group, for having solved this technically difficult problem and for having negotiated very hard with the council because it was a question of parliament's rights. it was a precedent, so to speak, that she had to negotiate, and she did so with great commitment and with great success for parliament. i would also like to thank the vice-president of the commission, who is very energetic in her overall efforts to ensure that europe contributes to solving our energy problems. i think we can all agree that more efficient use of energy is a very important contribution to solving our energy problems. modern technology provides us with tools to conserve energy and use it more efficiently. if you do it right, it's actually for the benefit of everyone. the costs associated with these technical innovations are so low that they pay for themselves in a matter of months, a few years at most, so that it is beneficial for the consumer as a whole, and it is also a way for industry to bring their innovations to the market. this is about one way, and that is the label. this is an important step because we are also influencing the global standards here, because the energy star is not only used in the united states and europe, but in countries beyond. when i took on the task of being the shadow rapporteur for the epp group, i asked the companies in my constituency dealing with this subject, those who sell computers or manufacture them, for example, what they thought of it. they said that the label alone is unlikely to do much, because unfortunately consumers do not pay so much attention to energy consumption when buying computers and similar items, but to many other features. so it might be useful to talk about how we can find other ways to promote energy-efficient appliances and phase out the big energy-wasting ones. the amendment we have before us says that such a way could be, for example, a voluntary agreement with industry. only if that doesn't work, you should think about legislation. i think this is very, very important because, as the rapporteur has said, we are discussing an agreement with the united states and a label, but the solution to the problem is not to be found in that label alone. i therefore ask the commissioner to make it quite clear in her speech that the commission intends to go beyond this and also to say when we can expect other proposals. i think it would not be in the interests of all of us if we had to go through a long conciliation procedure over an amendment. if we have a good result tonight, we can avoid the mediation process. otherwise, mediation would be necessary, which is something we all want to avoid.
- madam the president! at the lisbon summit last spring, the heads of state or government set themselves a high target. the european union should become the most dynamic and competitive economic area in the world. innovation is a key part of this. it is the content of an excellent report by paul rübig, to whom i would like to express my sincere congratulations on behalf of the group of the european people's party. only an innovation offensive can create the conditions necessary to catch up with the usa and japan, to stop the massive emigration of researchers and finally to achieve international competitiveness. it is about changing education systems. young people must be involved at an early age, through science education in schools and the targeted promotion of their talents. the curricula are designed to implement projects in the style of professional management, for example by setting up youth enterprises. the need for new information systems and technological upgrading of skills in the training and further education of workers and students. the commission has always been concerned with the revitalisation of small and mediumsized enterprises. this particular concern is important for the 18 million smes we have. employees are strongly in favour of support programmes for smes in the european union, as over 70 to 80% of them are involved in this sector. smes need something: simplified tax procedures, reduction of bureaucratic hurdles, active promotion of innovative products and productions. what is important is the integration of research into company structures. access to start-up capital is essential, because young people should start or run businesses. they should be able to take account of all the current problems of the new economy. i hope we learned from this together. on this basis, madam president, the european union can make a lasting contribution to the high-performance economic area based on knowledge. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president! - what is it? i should like to briefly describe the underlying problems and the main points of my report. the key message is that the commission is invited to prepare a detailed study on the possible effects of the transition to the principle of international exhaustion by 31 december 2002. the nera study presented by the commission in 1999 does not sufficiently address this issue. the right to a trade mark shall have effect only in the territory for which it has been granted. the community-wide exhaustion of the community trade mark and national trade marks shall apply when the proprietor of the trade mark has first put his product on the market within the community. if the proprietor of a trade mark places his product on the market outside the community, the effects of the trade marks in the community are not yet exhausted. it may therefore prohibit parallel importers from importing the product into the community. the commission has therefore decided to make a proposal to the council for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security. this split pricing policy is not the aim of trademark law. the main objective of the trademark is to make the product distinctive and well known and to signal a certain product quality. it could also be called the advertising effect. the division of markets to the detriment of consumers in the community cannot be the aim of the grant of a community trade mark. there is also nothing against parallel imports from a competition point of view. why should they be prevented by the bypass of trademark law? it's not okay. we must do something to bring back more competition and lower prices in the branded goods sector. a study by the swedish competition authority agrees. a discussion paper by the irish competition authority is of the same opinion. a hearing before the house of commons select committee also found arguments in favour of international exhaustion to be overwhelming. a major new factor is the growth of internet commerce. the current exhaustion regime could hamper the development of e-commerce. it is not clear whether the sale of branded products via the internet and their subsequent dispatch is permissible from the point of view of trade mark law. however, legal certainty and consumer protection are essential conditions for the development of commerce via the internet. in addition, the following is added: (a) there are brands which have virtually no product associated with them. for example, you order a siemens. a siemens can be a lamp, a washing machine or a nuclear power plant. (b) there are also brands which designate group products, for example adidas shoes, whether sandals or high-heeled shoes. (c) there are brands which require absolute identity, for example in medicine. there must not be a milligram of anything other than what it is called. all these points are sufficient grounds for calling on the commission to draw up its own comprehensive study. the eu's labour market is also a major source of employment, and the eu's labour market is a major source of employment.
- madam president! - what is it? the question of group formation has been very clearly expressed by our group when it was constituting the parliament. we are grateful that our legal position has been upheld here. i would like to make it quite clear, following on from some of the comments made by my colleagues, that our rules of procedure, which have been adopted by this parliament, make a clear distinction between members who belong to political groups and pool their rights there and those who do not belong to political groups. it is quite clear that non-attached members must not be discriminated against, but this does not mean that they as individual members enjoy full equality with the political groups. the rules of procedure expressly state in article 30 that a secretariat is available to members who do not belong to a political group, but the details are determined by the bureau. this is the legal situation now, following the judgment of the court of first instance, and it should be followed up in the coming months. * *
commission - madam president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the commission and its president, mr romano prodi, who is currently in brussels for the european union-russia summit, i would like to refer to the recent extraordinary summit in brussels and the prospects opened up by the preparations for the summit in ghent. before i refer to the three issues which mr michel himself mentioned and which will be on the agenda of the ghent council, may i say a few words about the extraordinary european council which took place on 24 september, the day after the tragic attacks in new york city and washington. as you know, this council was first and foremost an opportunity to express unanimously our shared emotion and solidarity with the american people. but beyond that, and alongside this emotion and solidarity, i want to reiterate our conviction, that of the entire college, that the fight against terrorism is not and cannot be a clash between civilizations. it is, on the contrary, the struggle that all the nations of the world wage together, as equal partners, against forces that want to destroy them, with no regard for human life, with no respect for the values that unite all men across borders, across cultures. and it is around this conception of man and things that the european union's action is organized. that is how our collective and global struggle will achieve its goal. at this extraordinary meeting, the european union set out the broad lines of a common response to the terrorist threat, a threat which is unfortunately not unknown to some of our member states and which the heads of state and government now want to counter together and by all means. at the informal meeting in ghent, the commission will report on developments in the economic situation and, more generally, on the various measures planned by the european council on 21 september. the laeken european council will provide an opportunity for a more complete operational review. in the coming months the european union will have to prove that it is able to organise, act, react quickly and naturally respect fundamental freedoms, because such a situation places us under a renewed obligation to reconcile freedom and security. among the most urgent actions, on which my colleague mr vitorino is working, i would mention the introduction of the european arrest warrant to replace the current extradition procedures and the adoption of a common definition of terrorism. i would point out that the extraordinary european council wanted all the measures decided by the european council at its meeting in tampere in october 1999 to be implemented. it is in the same spirit that the commission yesterday referred to you, madam president, a draft community regulation allowing the freezing of the assets of persons or bodies likely to have links with terrorism. the european council in laeken will therefore have to assess very precisely the state of completion of the area of freedom, security and justice envisaged in tampere. in the meantime, several steps will allow the european parliament and the council to make initial progress. the commission will present in october the half-yearly scoreboard with which it is monitoring tampere. ladies and gentlemen, let no one be mistaken: on these and other measures announced in brussels on 21 september, on the financing of terrorism, as i have just said, on the situation of air transport and on the aid we must give to afghan refugees, the european union has an obligation to deliver results, first of all to the peoples of europe who are waiting for such progress. i would like to reiterate my conviction that the most effective way of filling the so-called democratic deficit is to meet the expectations of the citizens and to put our words into action. i come now, if you will, to the next informal council in ghent and to the first item on the agenda, which concerns the great challenge of the euro and the arrival of the euro in cash. in just three months, the euro will be a reality. it is very important to remind everyone, everywhere, now, of the reasons why a majority of the member states of the european union have decided to share a common currency. the economic and monetary union, a political and economic project, has been ensuring control of inflation and sustained growth for almost three years. the euro provides the european union with better protection against external economic shocks and international financial crises. it is also an opportunity to remind him of that. it's a given, and anyone can measure it. with the euro in everyday use, people, individuals and businesses will benefit from greater price transparency, easier trade and better investment opportunities. they will better appreciate the potential of an internal market of almost 400 million inhabitants and consumers, 300 million of whom will use the single currency. from 1 january next year, the euro will inevitably make europe more tangible, more visible than ever, and i believe that the introduction of euro coins and notes will show in a very concrete way that europeans are succeeding in achieving their common ambitions. the euro will thus become a symbol of stability, peace and a shared identity. but in the face of such challenges, we must also want to make the changeover to the euro as easy as possible for 300 million people in 12 countries, with the arrival of a considerable number of new means of payment: 15 billion banknotes and 50 billion coins. in other words, we must make sure that we meet this unprecedented logistical and strategic challenge. the commission has shown itself, ladies and gentlemen, to be active and willing to prepare for the arrival of the euro, with the concern that consumers and businesses, both large and small, receive the necessary information. with the support of the european union, member states have put in place national plans for the changeover to the euro. my colleague, pedro solbes, will be presenting a communication next week on the arrival of the coins and banknotes so that the heads of state and government in ghent can take stock of the preparations under way. the european union must collectively ensure that information is disseminated as widely as possible to address existing concerns, particularly those concerning price stability, and we must work together to resolve all technical issues precisely and concretely.
- madam president, mr michel, president of the council, mr barnier, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the terrorist attacks of 11 september on new york and washington changed the world, and yesterday's declaration of article 5 for the first time in the history of the north atlantic alliance, the assistance clause and thus the defence case for all nato countries, shows how dramatic the development is. but it is important to point out that this is not just a challenge to the united states and the western community, but to the entire international community. i was told yesterday by a chinese interlocutor from the people's republic of china - not taiwan - that 50 chinese people were also killed in new york. that is, those terrorist attacks on the world trade center were an attack on almost every nation in the world. solidarity is needed. the fight against terrorism is a spiritual, a political, an economic and a military task, and it is only to be sustained in the long term. we say again that terrorism, if it has its roots in islamic countries, because that is where the terrorists are, is not to be confused with the peaceful arab and islamic world. we have to keep saying that! i thank you, mr president-in-office, for your visit to several countries with mr solana and mr patten. we will also be convening the mediterranean forum soon - madam president, i thank you for your initiatives - to discuss with our colleagues from the mediterranean. i warn you against any inappropriate rhetoric! i do not agree with what mr nielson said, nor with what mr bolkestein said. we must be able to expect a commissioner to use appropriate, cautious language. we shall discuss this at the conference of presidents on thursday and, depending on the progress of the discussions, our group reserves the right to ask the president of the commission and, if necessary, the two commissioners to speak again here in the european parliament. (applause from the centre) we need more europe now! we will only be a partner of the united states if we are able to act ourselves in foreign, security and defence policy, but also in matters of internal security. we need to work with russia. president putin is speaking today with president verhofstadt of the council and with president prodi of the commission. we welcome that. we want partnership with russia. but the events of 11 september must not mean that we close our eyes to human rights violations if they continue to occur in chechnya, but we must say yes to fighting violence and terrorism if it originates in chechnya, but no to fighting the chechen people. we must also be the advocates of the rights of the chechen people, of course within the russian federation. the european union must therefore also recognise the identity of its peoples, which is a value of the european union. we must of course implement the world trade agreements as planned, because there is nothing worse than not doing our normal work now. mr president, you spoke of ghent. we support what they said. we ask you to send a signal that we are once again working closely together in the fight against terrorism. europol and eurojust should also - and i am saying this for my own personal benefit - not only work closely together, but this close cooperation is best guaranteed when it is also carried out in one place. we ask you to send a signal to the candidate countries that they are welcome in the european union if they meet the conditions. i say this as a german, who 11 years ago, on 3 october 1990, was able to celebrate the unification of germany, which was only possible because the europeans who now want to join the european union had paved the way for it. we support what you have said on the preparations for the laeken convention. i want to thank you very much for the fact that your idea is different from ours. the european council in madrid has already made a number of recommendations on the subject. i must tell you that i feel safer here in strasbourg - this has nothing to do with the seat - because we know that there are french police officers here. if the president of the european parliament receives a reply from the belgian authorities that greater protection of parliament in brussels is not necessary because there is no evidence of attacks or whatever, then i do not think that is in any way sufficient in the explanatory statement. i would ask you, mr president-in-office, to ensure that the european parliament in brussels is also protected by belgian security forces. i am not a fan of panic, and certainly not of overreaction, but we also need protection and safety wherever possible. i ask you, as the president-in-office of the council, to exert your influence on the belgian government so that the security of the european parliament in brussels is also guaranteed by belgium, as far as possible! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, mr president of the council! what are europe's tasks at this time? firstly, europe must stand with the victims against the aggressor. we stand by our obligations to the alliance. we welcome the firm and prudent attitude of the united states government. we also welcome what the european council has said on solidarity with the united states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, the european union must help to forge a global political alliance against terrorism. we welcome your actions, mr president-in-office, as well as those of mr solana and mr patten, in the arab countries and in russia. we ask you to continue the efforts to bring about a settlement in the middle east, especially between the palestinians and israel. they're in the best interest of all of us. thirdly, we must work together to strengthen internal security. it is regrettable, mr president-in-office, that the european council, like the council of ministers of the interior and justice, has only now begun to implement halfway through the plans which were presented and worked out. we expect action against terrorism, not reactions to terrorist attacks. the european union must remain an example of balancing the rights of the individual and the security of all. fourthly, we want europeans to work together in a determined way for a more just world order, in which justice for all replaces violence by the few. we do not take this action for a more just world order because we believe that it would deprive terrorism of its breeding ground. no, we want a fairer world order because that is in line with our values and our dignity as europeans - a dignity we share with all the people of the world! fifthly, if the world has not been the same since 11 september, the european union cannot remain the same! we welcome your intention, mr president-in-office, for ghent and laeken. we hope that not only will the intentions be maintained, but that what you have said here will actually become the opinion of the fifteen and that we can then continue to work on that basis. europe can be shattered by this crisis in which the world finds itself. but europe can also emerge stronger from this crisis. this is the crossroads that you and all of us in ghent and laeken are facing. in this crisis, europe can and must show its citizens what the european union is really worth. that is what you will be, that is what we will all be measured by! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i think we europeans should be aware that we are going to be taken to task in the near future. the united states of america, but also the world public, will be watching us to see whether we are able to show our capacity for action and solidarity in the face of the new challenges of international terrorism that have now become apparent. the european capacity to act has often been thwarted by national sovereignty. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. but national sovereignty is not an end in itself, and certainly not when it is more likely to hinder than to promote the preservation of national independence against terrorists and the effective protection of citizens from terrorist attacks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. solidarity with the united states of america is a commandment that is invoked on all sides. this is also true because not only the united states but also our fundamental values have been and should be hit by this attack. that is why it is so disastrous for a member of the commission, mr nielson, to abandon this common solidarity of europeans. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why these statements must be withdrawn. it is to be expected that mr nielson will apologise for this. (applause from the centre)
chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. - mr president, i have to go. i think that after this terrorist proposal it becomes clear that we need a much more integrated policy, both from the european point of view and from the point of view of the content. we must combine foreign policy and domestic policy in a way that takes into account that the enemy is global and at the same time in our cities! mr carlsson is quite right, we cannot do this at the cost of abandoning the liberal rule of law. added to this is the question of combating the causes in this world. in all three respects we know very well that the nation state can no longer do this, but that we can only do it as a community, as a european community, and partly only in the context of the atlantic alliance, with our friends in north america. i believe that we must not leave this to mere rhetoric, but, madam president-in-office, in ghent and laeken, by pushing forward enlargement and thus the expansion of the zone of stability and by the post-nice process, we must create the facts, create the instruments, create the conditions so that this does not remain rhetoric but is cast in a lasting way in such solid forms that we can meet these conditions. that is why it is so crucial to prepare laeken with a sensible conception of a convention. we must be clear that technology is also extremely important in these areas. we must ensure - and it is your task as the belgian presidency of the council, and i am sure you will take this direction - that we have a convention that is workable, that is the appropriate legitimacy to present to the heads of state and government on this basis a document that makes possible the really great reform of the european union, even beyond the agenda set in nice. let me say a final word to the chairman of the spe group. it is a difference whether someone is a prime minister or a commissioner like mr nielson and therefore falls under the direct control of the european parliament. if someone is subject to the direct control of the european parliament, then it must also be possible to criticise him here and hold him accountable if he talks nonsense as he has done. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. we can't listen to the original audio from this facility all week. the acoustics in the plenary are very, very bad. but that's not new. in addition, since today we have heard a terrible noise from the loudspeaker, which disturbs everyone. we can't hear anything because the sound is coming from the speaker. somebody's got to take care of this plant.
counsel. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me also express my emotion at being able to welcome a delegation from the moroccan parliament to the podium. the accident of my duties meant that on that tragic day of 11 september i was in casablanca, head of a belgian economic mission to morocco. i was attending a lunch with ten members of the moroccan government, including the prime minister of morocco, when we heard the tragic news. it was also together that we shared the consternation of these horrible events and the reactions that you have since experienced. so i, in turn, would like to welcome the delegation here. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is aware of the fact that the council has not yet adopted the budget for the financial year, and that the council has not yet adopted the budget for the financial year. the council meeting in liège on 22 and 23 september 2001 focused its discussion on the economic impact of terrorist attacks in the united states. i would like to point out three aspects of this impact which were discussed at ecofin: firstly, the economic situation, and the opportunity was also taken to discuss the stability and growth pact. secondly, the financing of terrorism. and thirdly, the airline's insurance problems. i would also like to make a few comments on two other important issues that were discussed at liège: preparations for the changeover to the euro and issues related to globalisation. on the first point, i would like to point out that the terrorist attacks in the united states have reinforced our conviction that international cooperation in economic and financial matters is indispensable and that there is a need to strengthen the coordination of economic policies in the european union. the european union has been affected, already since last year, more than we originally anticipated, by the slowdown in economic activity in the united states and the rest of the world. the tragic events in the united states have increased uncertainty and also negative risks to overall growth expectations. we cannot pretend that nothing has happened, but at the same time it is very difficult to estimate precisely the potential impact of these acts. growth in the european union this year will be clearly below 2%, but we still expect a gradual recovery in domestic demand in the coming quarters as a result of a number of factors: lower inflation, recent tax cuts and more favourable monetary conditions. the risks, therefore, should be manageable. of course, we must monitor economic developments very closely in order to be able to adjust economic policies as necessary, both in the union and in each of the member states. after the events of 11 september, policy makers have shown their determination to act quickly and appropriately in order to eliminate the risks of a longer-term slowdown, for which it is also necessary to maintain our medium-term objectives, to accelerate our agenda and, in particular, i am thinking of the lisbon agenda, to rapidly modernise our economies to get out of the slowdown as soon as possible and to increase our capacity for growth. as i noted above, the informal ecofin declaration confirmed the commitment of the member states to the framework, rules and implementation of the stability and growth pact. it is true that the lower growth will affect, as the presidency has pointed out, the nominal value of budgetary positions, but the deviation from the objectives must be measured. the stability and growth pact is an appropriate framework for budgetary policy both in good economic times and in less good times. in this sense it allows the right budgetary policy to be implemented at any given time. the covenant offers every possibility. the automatic stabilisers will have a greater effect if the deceleration is more significant than expected. the way and extent to which these stabilizers can be used depends on the situation in each member state, and those closer to budgetary equilibrium will naturally have more room for manoeuvre. the current budgetary positions, which result from respect for the existing budgetary rules, have enabled the european central bank to pursue an accommodative monetary policy and, in particular, have enabled the bank to take the appropriate and rapid decision to reduce interest rates by 50 basis points on 17 september. a rise in deficits beyond what can justify the use of stabilizers would reduce the margin of the central bank for possible rate cuts in the future. the european council asked the commission to present to the next european council in ghent on 19 october an analysis of possible developments in the economic situation and possible recommendations. the report should be regarded as a continuous and systematic exercise which allows the assessment of the evolution of risks and their possible consequences to be adjusted. a second comment on the measures to combat the financing of terrorism. the ecofin declaration underlines a number of specific actions. firstly, the revision of the money laundering directive which is - as you know very well - under way. i would like to stress again, on behalf of the commission and in line with the ecofin declaration of liège, the political importance we attach to its being able to be concluded quickly. it will be an unmistakable sign of the union's commitment to eradicating criminal activities that find their instrument of support in money laundering activities. i would also like to highlight the commission's approval of the proposal for a regulation on specific measures to freeze the assets of persons and entities linked to the financing of terrorist activities, which we hope the council and parliament will be able to deal with urgently with a view to its immediate entry into force. it is a clear demonstration of our political determination not to give breathing space to those who attack political coexistence and the freedoms of all citizens. the ecofin council also agreed on general guidelines to guide the action of governments on insurance problems faced by airlines. the ecofin declaration calls on the commission to extend the scope of the ad hoc group set up within the transport council to include insurance issues. the declaration also states that any measures taken by governments, including financial amounts, must be notified to the commission. this allows the commission to exercise its responsibility for ensuring the compatibility of these measures with community legislation and for organising consistency in the member states' response. the commission is preparing a report on the impact of the 11 september attacks on the air transport industry. the informal ecofin also had the opportunity to discuss, as has been done regularly, the preparations for the introduction of the euro. the commission is preparing a report on this for the european council in ghent on 19 october. in liege i asked the member states to pay particular attention to three aspects which i believe are crucial at the moment. firstly, the problem of pre-feeding the small traders. it is important that they are informed and convinced of the commercial advantages of pre-feeding, but it is also important to find ways of helping them to work together with the banks and that they offer fair debit conditions for the amounts of euro that small traders receive before 31 december 2001. it is also essential to provide specific training for small traders and for all those responsible for cash handling in any business. finally, the third problem of concern is the monitoring of the prices of goods and services around the euro changeover period. we cannot, and it is not sensible, reproduce the calculation of the harmonised consumer price index every week, but we can provide citizens with information on the evolution of some key prices in a transparent manner. the fact that this exercise is carried out by government agencies will ensure transparency and objectivity, and that the sample chosen is appropriate. the informal ecofin also agreed with the commission's proposal to set up a common european network to organise the exchange of information during the introduction period of coins and banknotes. this network will start operating at the beginning of december in close coordination with the european central bank's cash changeover committee. the last point i would like to make is the debate on globalisation. the commission has followed closely the public debate on globalisation, including the debate on the so-called tobin tax. we have noted the interest of ecofin in having a report on these issues. this discussion reflects two objectives which are clearly relevant and about which we share the concern of many of the participants in the debate on globalisation. firstly, to avoid excessive exchange rate volatility which can block the desired economic development of developing countries and, secondly, to find sources of additional financing to combat poverty. we cannot respond to these objectives with a single instrument. the union, together with other countries, international institutions and other groups, has developed a number of instruments and policies to try to meet these objectives. of course, more and better can and should be done, and the commission is ready to explore new possibilities. the idea of professor tobin of a tax on foreign currency transactions was, by his definition, to put a grain of sand on the international money markets. it was proposed as a second best solution to curb short-term speculative movements. the commission has already expressed its views on several occasions. a tax on monetary transactions cannot effectively address the problems caused by excessive volatility of financial flows or inequality between countries. a wide range of instruments must be mobilised: the tobin tax is not the miracle instrument to meet all these challenges. we must consider a set of instruments to achieve financial and monetary stability. a comprehensive approach to the financial architecture is needed, both at the internal level of the european union and at the international level, including regulatory frameworks, institutions and the problem of money laundering. a broad approach is also needed to development finance. poverty, debt management, provision of international public goods and environmental protection can be addressed through different instruments. the commission - and i am sure that parliament and the council can be counted on to do so - is ready to contribute actively to the debate on the instruments which will ensure coherence between globalisation, sustainable development and global governance. of course, these issues go beyond the strict sphere of the union and we have to address them with the other countries and institutions. the commission is ready to respond to the council's invitation to continue working on how to respond to the key objectives i have mentioned. in any case, some of the work is already under way in the commission, as we are preparing a report by january next year on the external dimension of sustainable development for the rio+10 conference to be held in johannesburg next year. these are the fundamental elements that i wanted to share with you. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. why has my group called for this debate on the stability and growth pact to take place this afternoon? the reason was that we were concerned about some of the statements we have heard from the ranks of socialist governments in recent weeks and months. the comments made by mr eichel, mr jospin, mr fabius and others all went in the same direction. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting was adopted by the council on 14 december. that was the one request. the second was to give the heads of state or government the right to set the european central bank's stability objectives each year. we believe that these two proposals are extremely dangerous. the independence of the european central bank and the stability and growth pact are the two pillars on which the monetary system of the european union rests. these two pillars must not be shaken. my group will always be committed to maintaining both the independence of the european central bank and the stability and growth pact as they are. i am not going to go into the details of the proposals. we have tabled a motion for a resolution with the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party. we have had negotiations with the group of the party of european socialists, who have said that they cannot agree with our resolution. but what is so bad about our resolution? it says that the stability and growth pact should be 'maintained' - literally. why can't you agree to that? then: we want to apply its principles fully. why can't you agree to that? we need to take action against money laundering. commissioner, you have raised this. we need measures to destroy the financial background of the terrorist acts. why can't you agree to that? and we must continue to dismantle monopolies in a consistent manner in order to strengthen the competitiveness of our european economy. why can't you agree to that? now the second question: what is the counter-proposal being made by the other side? it is always the same proposals. the european central bank is supposed to lower interest rates. the second is to relax the stability and growth pact and the budgetary policies of the member states. this is the socialist policy mix. this is this druidic potion that is brewed and then it's there to cure all the ills of this economy all of a sudden and effortlessly. it would be nice if it were so, dear christa! but it doesn't really work. look at japan, where it has been applied and where it has not worked! look at the stock markets in the united states today, and you can see that this is not working! look at economic history, where we find that in the past, this has never worked! i therefore call on you to reject these demands and to vote in favour of our resolution. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. all measures must be taken to ensure that europe has a real response to the consequences of the terrible terrorist acts in new york and washington, and that includes what has actually been achieved, madam president-in-office, namely a joint response by the eu finance ministers. i think it symbolizes that europe can stand together when it really matters. i believe that this policy must be continued in the field of aid policy. but it must also give us the flexibility to see that europe really wants to avoid a further economic downturn. we have a stability and growth pact, and it gives us a lot of opportunities, because on the one hand we want europe to be a community of stability, but on the other hand we also want to promote growth and employment. it is no coincidence that, in the examination of the convergence criteria, the examination and approval of exceptional circumstances which permit a departure from the definition of excessive deficit has already played a role. i do not want to use that word to describe a community which is not stable. on the contrary, i would like to ask the belgian presidency and the commission to contribute to further coordination in this area, taking advantage of the fact that stability programmes can be updated. i would like to see updated stability programmes of the euro area member states, which make it clear that the data have changed significantly. what is needed in this context - madam president-in-office, you have rightly said it - is that we must avoid procyclical policies in europe, both in the expansionary and in the restrictive sense; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that this would be helpful in taking the excitement out of this debate in this parliament and, above all, in making further progress, both in growth policy and in stability policy. the european union needs both monetary stability and employment and social stability.
- mr president, i have to go. the objective of the stability and growth pact is to achieve lasting stability in financial markets, which has remained a national responsibility since the start of monetary union. the stability pact is thus a necessary fiscal complement to a single monetary policy and a fiscal substitute for the political union which did not come into being at the same time as monetary union. the aim is to provide sufficient budgetary leeway in good times and to prepare for bad times. this has been neglected by some member states recently, including germany. but as soon as the first difficulties arise, the interpretation of the criteria is considered aloud. the criticism is that while the pact promotes stability, it acts as a fiscal straitjacket and therefore reinforces weak monetary growth. this criticism ignores the facts. the commitment is to balance the budget in the medium term and to limit the deficit, and it cannot therefore become a toy once the forces of growth have been weakened. the council of ministers has already made a number of recommendations to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to take them into account. we need a signal of stability three months before the euro is introduced, as mr karas has already said. the problem is that we have missed the lisbon target of becoming the fastest growing and best region in the world. but we can only achieve this if the member states do their homework. you cannot download this from the european central bank. i would also like to disagree somewhat with mr tannock, who has taken the view that the ecb has not achieved its objectives during this crisis. the ecb in particular has responded very well since 11 september, and the euro has done well. but by discussing the stability and growth pact before 11 september, we have 'sparked' - as mr karas said - and 'uncertain'. if we had not done so, we would now be able to discuss the future of the euro with much more ease.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the aim of the television without frontiers directive is to ensure a legal framework for the free movement of audiovisual services in the european union and to safeguard special interests, pluralism, cultural diversity, youth and consumer protection. today's agenda includes the commission's report on the application of the directive for the period 1997-2000. in essence, the following result can be noted. the objectives of the directive have been substantially achieved. the directive needs to be revised in depth for the future. the five main points of the balance sheet in a nutshell: firstly, implementation has been achieved in 12 member states, three of which are still lagging behind. secondly, the television sector experienced a period of overall continuous growth between 1997 and 2000. this applies to the number of television channels, the total turnover of radio and television stations and the advertising turnover of public and private providers. nevertheless, it should be noted that the trade deficit in television rights with the united states alone is around usd 2,9 billion; the total deficit of the audiovisual sector is about 6.6 billion dollars. thirdly, the 50% quota for european values has been significantly exceeded, with the exception of portugal, where it ranges from 53% to 81%. fourthly, the rules on youth protection have been generally respected, but should be coordinated more in the future. fifthly, the new possibilities under article 3a for the broadcasting of events of major importance have so far been used by four countries, and four more are planning to introduce events of particular importance, particularly for sporting events. the committee noted shortcomings in the reporting on implementation in the candidate countries and in the analysis of media concentration trends. the digital age is upon us and the convergence of television, pc and internet requires a fundamental revision of the television directive with the aim of a european legal framework for the distribution of audiovisual content with a gradual increase in regulatory density. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. secondly, to examine whether quotation can continue to be an appropriate instrument for promoting european works. thirdly, the safeguarding of open and compatible standards for different access authorisation schemes; fourthly, the strengthening of effective self-regulation, particularly in the field of youth protection. fifthly, analysis of the development of vertical and horizontal media interconnection; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i therefore fully support amendments nos 2, 3 and 4, which have been tabled for the plenary. the preparation of the revision must take into account the outstanding importance of television and new services for democracy and society, also in the digital age. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the audiovisual sector. i therefore very much welcome the fact that the commission has provided for a broad communication process here and, commissioner, we hope that, given the speed of digital development, your proposal for revision can be tabled as soon as possible. i would like to make an appeal to all of us to take advantage of the opportunities for dialogue in the next year and a half to show how this parliament is working closely with the citizens, especially when it comes to cultural content.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in the european union in 2000, there were 152 million television households with a total of over 580 different channels. that's about 180% growth in just four years. these few figures may be sufficient to show that the conventional television market, which comprises only a small part of the total audiovisual sector, is a growth industry of considerable size. the commission's report shows that the 'television without frontiers' directive, which was initially highly controversial in my country, has proved its worth. it ensures cross-border distribution under understandable conditions. in the period under review, at least 50 channels already broadcast mainly to markets outside their territory. the television directive closed regional loopholes and set binding standards for advertising and youth protection, for example, which created a level playing field in terms of equal opportunities and competitiveness. the hieronymi report makes a very good point about this. it also makes clear that we need to enter a new debate on the re-examination of the television directive as soon as possible in order to respond to the rapid changes in the audiovisual sector in the age of increasing digitalisation. this is not only true of the distribution of multimedia offerings of all kinds, but also of the proper handling of media concentration processes, which also develop in a way that is almost unmanageable. this is countered by the need to safeguard freedom of information, diversity of opinion and pluralism, and is an indispensable basis for the flourishing of europe's cultural diversity in multimedia.
- mr president, you were also a high-ranking deputy mayor of madrid in your previous life. it will be of interest to you and the house that we have a high-level delegation from german cities in the guest gallery. we should give them a warm welcome. (applause from the centre)
the council has repeatedly and consistently stressed the great importance which the european union attaches to the respect by the countries participating in the stabilisation and association process of their international obligations towards the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia and to the lasting settlement of the refugee and displaced persons question. these elements are part of the conditionality sought by the european union in the context of the stabilisation and association process, to which the countries of the region subscribed at the zagreb summit. at its meeting on 11 june the council approved a report assessing the progress made by the countries of the region in meeting these conditions for european integration and formulating concrete recommendations to enable them to move forward along this path. the council considered that bosnia and herzegovina's cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia was insufficient, particularly as regards the republika srpska. none of the accused of war crimes had been arrested on the initiative of the authorities of that republic. the council therefore called on bosnia and herzegovina to make further efforts to fully comply with the dayton-paris agreement and to cooperate fully with the international tribunal. the european union also expressed the view that the process of returning refugees and displaced persons throughout the territory of bosnia and herzegovina should be accelerated and that measures to meet conditions for their safe return should be strengthened. the union also expressed to the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina and the republika srpska its wish that bosnia and herzegovina implement all the recommendations addressed to it. the council will certainly follow up these neighbourhood issues. the review mechanism will also enable the european union to assess periodically compliance with the criteria established in the framework of the stabilisation and association process in order to verify that the level of relations established and the level of technical and economic assistance remain effectively justified. this is certainly a possible means of putting pressure on the authorities of bosnia-herzegovina and republika srpska, a means which could be used if the situation changed.
- madam president of the council! i just have two quick follow-up questions: firstly, i would like to know whether the council has asked the republika srpska how many displaced persons and refugees have since returned to the republika srpska. do you have any figures on this? secondly, i would like to ask whether cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia has repercussions on the financing of republika srpska.
counsel. - mr president, i can only answer the honourable member that, of course, we are aware of all the aspects, both human and security, of the seriousness of the situation. as i said earlier, i myself was in morocco, in tangier, very recently, and i saw clearly the problem with the strait, which at times bears its name admirably well, since it is only 12 or 14 kilometres at its narrowest point. we are aware of this, of course, and that is why all these initiatives are being implemented. i also know from contacts i had when i was myself, not on behalf of the european union, but as belgian minister on mission to morocco, that the moroccan authorities are also very aware of the problem. nor do they see any joy in their people's willingness to take such risky action. what, on the other hand, sometimes saddens the moroccan authorities, and i can understand that, is that we sometimes tend to make a connection a little too easily between people from that country and security risks.
- madam president! - what is it? in 1998 this house proposed a common european border police or a border guard, as i proposed; at the beginning of this year the old italian and german governments took up this matter. i would like to ask you whether the council has made any progress on the question of a european border police or a european border guard or whether there are plans to do something about this under the belgian presidency.
- the joint debate on the following reports is requested: - a5-0307/2001 by mrs berès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the communication from the commission (com (2001) 82 - c5-0173/2001 - 2001/ 2083 (cos)) on strengthening the coordination of economic policies in the euro area; - a5-0306/2001 by mrs peijs, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the commission communication (com (2000) 846 - c5-0172/2001 - 2001/ 2082 (cos)) on the contribution of public finances to growth and employment: improving quality and sustainability.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my dear colleague, the rapporteur! i cannot resist a remark to mr karas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the public budgets in the union as a whole have shown a surplus for the first time in decades last year, and this is true, mrs peijs, even if we do not take into account the special revenue from the sale of mobile telephony licences in this account. i do not want to minimize this in this debate today. the successes this year may not be as great. this is due to the slowdown in growth in the european union, but this is no reason to stir the drum of inflation. this is no reason to panic. no one can reassure the members of the group of the european people's party and the european democrats. no one - at least in this house - wants to print black money. nobody wants to print money to solve fiscal problems. we want to print money to provide our citizens with our new currency - the euro - in time, but no one here is talking about a weak budgetary policy. you know that, too. that's not the point! the essence of the matter is quite different. you know very well that the consolidation successes i am talking about have not been achieved in the past by increasing revenue but by cutting expenditure. these expenditure cuts have led to this positive result, but also to negative results. public infrastructure is broken in many areas. social networks are tense in many places, and we have critical strategic gaps in our investment behaviour in both the private and public sectors compared to our competitors on the global stage. we now have a situation where public revenue will decline for economic reasons. the crucial question now is: what do we do in such a situation? i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. do you want to use budgetary restrictions to prevent the necessary investment in our common future? do you want to enter into another procyclical decline in the european union, which will disconnect us from the growth trend in the long term? i can't imagine you want that. mr von wogau asked this afternoon: what do the socialists want? i will give you the answer: we want to prevent such a policy of fear-mongering! we want to put an end to the fact that the recovery in europe is always short-lived because the scare tactics of central banks or the scare tactics of governments are playing off the long-term opportunity. we have tabled amendments which are sensible. if you can find a compromise with us, we'll walk a common path. if this is not possible, we will not go together!
- mr president, i have to go. the challenges of globalisation are precisely what make it clear to us how important it is for europe to coordinate economic policies and to integrate financial, employment and social policies, because the small europe is showing the world that it is possible to make progress in a region if regional cooperation is understood not only as intergovernmental cooperation and not only as a free trade area. i think that the cohesion between the internal market on the one hand and certain political controls on the other hand also determines the quality of the european union. in this respect, i can only welcome the commission's communication and mrs berès' report, which make it very clear that we need further progress in the coordination process. we all know that the challenges and the demands have now even grown. the eu council of finance ministers has rightly ensured that there are now more integrated approaches, particularly in the area of capital movements. it is certainly important that we not only act together and improve the quality of coordination, but also that we agree on specifications. the lisbon process, which was continued in stockholm, fortunately provided us with concrete objectives in terms of both quantity and quality. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national coordinators. if we do not have this, who will be able to tell whether all the countries are actually meeting the requirements to which they have committed themselves? the commission has also made a number of commitments to the member states, including the consolidation of their budgets. mr bullmann rightly pointed out the progress made in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is the doctrine of the convergence criteria, and this deficit is supposed to help us to arrive at a favourable monetary policy that supports development. i think that coordination can really be strengthened and that the policies which can be mutually supportive or mutually reinforcing must all be included in this process of coordination. i also think it is particularly good that we as a parliament are calling on the national parliaments to participate in the coordination process, and i really want to insist on that! we in the committee have always tried to highlight this cooperation with the national parliaments. mr president, let me make one final remark: we do not want policy coordination to be an end in itself. we have lost growth in europe because we have not had the coordination in the past decades. we lost because we did not coordinate the umts auction in europe. we could have had a different result! we have not reacted together to the opec price increases. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
commission. - mr president, thank you very much to the two rapporteurs. the interventions that have taken place tonight will undoubtedly help us in our further work. i will begin my remarks with the bères report and i would like to express my satisfaction with parliament's motion for a resolution in which it supports the strengthening of economic policy coordination in the euro area. we cannot forget that economic policy coordination is an obligation imposed by the treaty. the treaty makes it very clear that our model is based on a single monetary policy and national economic policies, but coordinated. this is a key element of our model. it is true that coordination is still in a learning phase. it is also true that we have an increasing interdependence - especially in the euro area but also in the union in general - and this requires a permanent review of the content, systems and instruments we are using. i should therefore like to welcome in particular the report drawn up by parliament, mrs bères and all those who have taken part in the committee on economic and monetary affairs in drawing up its excellent work. i believe that this work goes even further in many respects than the commission's proposal, especially in one fundamental respect, namely the increase in national participation in the coordination of economic policy. i would like to highlight two fundamental elements of the report - and i will make a few comments on the various speeches in reference to them. the first is the need to strengthen coordination, the second the need to increase democratic debate and national participation. as regards the content of coordination, i think it is worthwhile to comment more extensively on some points. the report supports the commission's proposals on the preparation of periodic reports on the euro area economy. i can tell you today that our idea - we have continued to work on this - is that we must have detailed economic analyses but also proposals which are relevant to economic policy. we must go beyond the specific analysis. in her speech mrs bères raised the need for improvements in statistics and policy evaluation. it is true that we have made progress with the statistical plans for the monetary area of the union, but we cannot be satisfied. it is partly a problem of adapting national statistics to the new reality, it is partly a problem of money, but in some cases it is neither of these difficulties but the difficulty of having the data needed for a good definition of economic policy in a shorter time. this means that we may have to consider in the future the need for statistical information of our own, other than the aggregate of national statistics. it is certainly a key element in being able to act with a time limit similar to that of other economic authorities. in his report he makes a reference - which i think is fundamental - to trying to reach a common view on the impact of economic cycles on public finances. we have already had part of that debate this afternoon - i will make some comments later on when i also discuss mrs peijs' report - but we believe it is essential that a methodology be found as soon as possible in the ecofin council which will enable us to examine the concept of structural deficit in the same way. we are working towards this, which we consider to be fundamental, precisely to allow these automatic stabilizers to play their part as far as the budgetary situations of the member states allow, but applying the same criteria in all cases. the first element i have mentioned, the content of coordination, is the question of prior information. this is a point which always gives rise to a certain debate and discussion. we're talking about two different things when we talk about advance information. we are talking, first of all, about the other members of the eurogroup being aware of the broad outlines of those essential elements of a national economic policy which may end up having an impact on others. let us take the example of the tax cut measures adopted last year in the wake of the oil crisis. i am sure that if we had acted as we have done this year on the issue of insurance cover for airlines, we would have had a better result and a better approach from the point of view of the union's position. the same could be said of umts. if we had discussed, before the decision was taken, how to deal with the possibilities and difficulties that could be posed by one or another option in third generation mobile phone licences, we would certainly have avoided some of the problems that followed. we are not talking about everyone doing the same thing, we are talking about discussing amongst ourselves to try to decide on a framework, in which the different national decisions fit, which allows us to have a more coherent position. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i link this with the reference made by mrs bères to increasing national participation in the broad economic policy guidelines. until now, it was considered that we had two processes that did not necessarily converge. on the one hand, we must reach agreement on the broad guidelines of economic policy in brussels, in luxembourg; on the other hand, we must define our national budgetary and economic policies. and both processes took different paths. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is becoming increasingly clear that the two instruments we have, the stability pact and the broad economic policy guidelines, are key elements. and the broad economic policy guidelines, if they are really approved by the ministers as a real commitment to be implemented in each of the member states, must be the reflection of the budgetary policy which each minister wants and must put forward in his national parliament. i think this would greatly help us to establish a better link between decisions taken at community level and those taken by national parliaments. the commission therefore considers this idea of debate to be fundamental and we will support it fully. it is true, however - and this is another point i would like to make - that it is not appropriate to burden procedures excessively. that is why we are more cautious than some of the ideas reflected on the subject of macroeconomic dialogue. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the use of asbestos. i would therefore like to conclude my comments on this first report by pointing out that the commission services are currently reflecting on the implementation of some of the proposals contained in the resolution, i have taken note of a number of suggestions made this afternoon here and, of course, we will pay particular attention to them in the preparation of our final proposal. i would like to thank mrs peijs for her report and her comments, but i would like to focus on three or four points which i think are particularly important. firstly, i fully share your view that, in the context of the introduction of the euro, the credibility of a sound public finance policy compatible with the euro is essential. it is true that, in our view, public finances - as we have clearly stated this afternoon - must serve both situations of crisis and situations of good economic behaviour. in your report you refer to automatic stabilisers - and i think we do not have a great deal of difference of opinion on this point. we think, like you, that they must play a fundamental role, both in times of growth and in times of economic slowdown. we appreciate your reference to tax cuts. the commission has been advocating that any tax reduction must meet certain criteria, which are set out in its report, and which we consider to be fundamental to maintaining the logic of the quality of public finances. if we were to discuss tax cuts now, things like consumer promotion would undoubtedly be more important than they were a few months ago, since this is one of the issues we are concerned about. but there is no doubt that the logic of the tax cuts can be applied in virtually all cases in accordance with the criteria contained in the document and which you support. a final comment on the long-term sustainability of public finances. there have been other comments on the labour market, on how we should move forward, on consistency in work, pensions, etc. in my view, all these elements will be raised in a more general view of the labour market, while the finance ministers should pay particular attention to public finances and, in that sense, to the difficulties that may arise in the financing of social security within the overall budget deficits of all public administrations. the idea we are working on at the moment - and from your report, as the honourable member knows, some progress has already been made - is not that reference should be made by a short paragraph in the stability programmes, but that the stability programmes should annually collect the data necessary to make a proper assessment of the development of public finances in relation to the problems of ageing. however, in our view, the idea of including this information in the stability programmes is not because we believe that these are problems which should be solved by annual decisions - they require longer-term solutions - but because we did not think it appropriate to introduce new processes of planning or analysis or monitoring of public finance developments. our idea is that every four or five years, in each of the countries, there should be a more in-depth analysis - it could be an annex to the documents of the stability programmes - of the long-term public finances with the logically fundamental problem of the ageing of the population, and that, however, in the updating of the annual programmes we should only collect the basic information needed. i would like to conclude by thanking again all of you for your cooperation, for the useful ideas you have given us and which we will take into account to the greatest possible extent.
- here 's a personal statement that helps the reconciliation ! i also thank you, commissioner solbes! the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0299/2001) by mr agag longo, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the xxxth report of the commission (sec2001) 0694 - c5-0312/2001 - 2001/ 2130 (cos)) on competition policy (2000).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. recently, especially after the stockholm european council, there has been a change in competition policy in the european union. this can be seen in the increasing conservation of structures. the agag longo report rightly addresses this. after the success of liberalisation in the 1990s, the postal, electricity and gas sectors are now trying to escape from the sticky competition. first liberalization, then regulation, and the headline for this scenario is: welfare. the agenda of the heads of government for laeken expressly provides for a discussion of the tension between competition and welfare. it is a question of whether the competition can hold its own there. if you ask what the difference is between our modern open society and another society, which is characterized by classes and castes, the answer is clear: in our open society, competition has become the culture-bearing order, the culture-bearing principle. the breakthrough in the competition principle is therefore a great cultural achievement. the state has never been able to meet this principle. it has always protected its education system, its banks, its railways, its airlines, its mail, its telephone networks and its housing associations from the fierce winds of competition. some industries also argue that competition cannot work in their case or that they have to pursue objectives that could harm competition. there are plenty of examples. coal is valued for its security of supply. in health care, it is claimed that the market is harmful because patients are unable to judge the services. in agriculture, the market is said to be unsuitable because farmers are said to produce more at lower prices. the postal services cannot be excluded from competition - at least not completely - because they have social responsibilities. that's the way to go. but all these lazy excuses have one thing in common: they all recognise competition as a principle; it is merely claimed that the principle is not applicable in this particular case. the european environment has certainly become more difficult for competition policy again. it is therefore important - and the committee on economic and monetary affairs calls for this - that the eu's competition policy should finally be extended to the energy, transport and pharmaceutical sectors. let us therefore continue to plan, promote and advocate freedom together in the future.
- mr president, commissioner, dear colleague, the chicken! i too would like to join in the congratulations of my predecessor, malcolm harbour. this is an excellent report and it has been a pleasure to work with. i can already announce that tomorrow we will fully support the line of this report. we have two parallel developments at the moment which are very important for this area. the internet is becoming more and more important. the trade via the internet is increasing. and on the other hand, we are in the process of completing the single market for financial services in europe. the target is 2005. in particular, financial services which are not tangible are particularly suited to be offered across borders via the internet. i think we will have a situation in the foreseeable future where insurance or banking services are bought by the customer via the internet not at the local bank but across the border in the neighbouring countries and that you can compare very well via the internet in this area as well. it is also important that we win the consumer for this trade. i am speaking here of consumer protection, since competition has already been mentioned. but the consumer will only help e-commerce in financial services to succeed if he has confidence, if there are the contractual or non-contractual provisions to help him in his right, to help him in cross-border complaints. i support the commission's initiative to set up extrajudicial conciliation procedures such as fin-net. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind. the third point was raised by my predecessor: the field of technical systems. many people are still afraid and hesitant to use the internet. i'm still feeling the same way. i'm not just gonna put my visa card on the internet. there are still concerns and bottlenecks among consumers. the convergence of online and offline trade is increasing, and it is therefore important to harmonise the legal provisions here too. i can only support the previous speakers in saying that we must remain firm on the principle of the country of origin, that the commission must remain firm. parliament will be giving its opinion on this tomorrow. but progress is also needed in smaller areas, such as the removal of national marketing and advertising regulations which are hindering the development of the internet - fortunately this has been included in the report - if we are not to inhibit development. in conclusion, i would like to say that e-commerce in this area will develop positively, although we may have had a different impression on the stock exchanges in recent months, but it will be on the rise, it will continue to develop positively. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the services it provides. i therefore believe that this report is a landmark and a good step forward, also in terms of support from the commission.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have now reached the last item on the agenda, and i assume that the demands of the members are now within the bounds. what's the report about? it is about the issue of pre-contractual information on mortgage loans. we are in the process of creating an eu single market by 2005, and there is also a target that in the future mortgage loans will be issued and accepted by customers across borders. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is not excluded from the market. we need to implement it relatively quickly. if it were to be completed in less than 12 months, that would be a good thing. i would like to emphasize here the positive role played by the commission, which has succeeded in bringing the two sides together again and again in this difficult process of moderation and finally in bringing it to a conclusion. this can be a first positive example of self-regulation in the european union. but there is still work to be done. first, we need to look at the moderation process itself. it lasted about four years and, according to some participants, was not always very transparent. we ask the commission to report to the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the experience gained in this moderation process and on the conclusions to be drawn from it for future self-regulation processes. as i have already said, it can be a positive example, but if it is not a positive example of self-regulation, then the commission will certainly have to come up with its own proposal for a directive. there are still some open points. first of all, it is not only the banking associations that must commit themselves, but we need a commitment from the banks themselves throughout europe. the extent to which the banks will participate is open. secondly, this register, which is being kept there, should of course also be made available on the internet. we also need similar forms in europe. it is already foreseeable that some member states, which were particularly keen to have a uniform form at the beginning, will want to go their own way and may deviate in the future. in any case, comparability must be maintained, especially in the interests of the customer. we should try to extend this agreement to the applicant countries. the conciliation body you mentioned, commissioner, should be extended to this area. we should not retain the internal conciliation body provided for in the agreements, but take up the initiative of the european commission in this area. we need comparability of data as well. the annual percentage rate of charge is of particular importance to the consumer. it is not just the number at the end that is important, but also the basis on which it is calculated. there are also different bases for calculating the annual effective interest rate in europe: we should work towards a uniform method of calculation. i would be very happy if this were not to be the commission's approach but if the banks themselves were able to adopt a method within a very short time. we should then apply all this to services offered via the internet. we have just had the chicken report, which also said that we wanted to push this forward. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, i would like to say that i very much welcome the fact that this self-agreement has been reached. it is now necessary to examine and follow up these cases critically. we hope that the commission will soon report to the committee on the success of this code and whether we can continue with it or whether we have to legislate.
mr president, there is strong international competition in manufacturing, and there is increasing concentration and globalisation. the consumer has great advantages, but also disadvantages. although many institutions in the european member states are involved in the quality and control of consumer goods, the recall is no longer an isolated case. the report calls for the precautionary principle to be applied to the whole range of products. the right approaches to solving problems are referred to. as a producer of consumer products myself, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the solutions she has proposed, because the protection of producers is also at stake, not just consumers. one solution is to harmonize the rules of the authorities responsible for production safety. the network of information that will be needed to do this will be vast. it is therefore appropriate to extend the existing directive and revise it after a thorough assessment. the market cannot be controlled. preventive measures are therefore particularly important for safety and health. the report contains many indications that in the member states the rights of operators and producers take precedence over the rights of consumers. the report calls for this to be changed. i agree with you. the diversity of products on offer and the resulting risks to the safety and health of the consumer market make it necessary to reorient the legislative framework. the report makes no secret of this. the report also makes it clear that an export ban should be imposed on dangerous products. the subject has not yet been fully considered, and i assume that the period up to 2003 is not too long either.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. hiv and aids are not just a health policy problem - as was made clear in the debate - but a social problem. a holistic strategy is therefore needed to combat it. the fight against poverty is one way to do that, but i want to talk about other priorities that i think are equally important: there's education and sex education, there's prevention, and of course there's therapy. these are the three areas that need to be addressed if we are to make progress in africa, where the problem is most acute. this means that we have to start sex education and sex education with adolescents and children, because without a change in sexual behavior, the problem will not be tackled. we must also use some of the funds for this. the sexually active population must be able to exercise prevention. i would like to highlight senegal as a particularly positive example, where religious and political leaders have worked together to prevent the spread of aids. similarly, in uganda, the number of people who are unemployed is increasing. if the political and even the spiritual leaders of a country are involved, then a great deal can be achieved. that is why, for example, in côte d'ivoire, a minister for aids and hiv has been appointed. i think these are examples that we need to encourage as well. there is another important problem, namely, to avoid ostracising the sick. this is a big problem. we must also break down social taboos, and we must not only treat those who are infected with medication, but we must also promote their positive integration into society. only then will it be possible to create a climate which is ultimately holistically directed against the progression of the disease. (applause from the centre)
that would be in my interest as well. (cheers and applause)
in writing. - (de) the freezing of the bank accounts of organisations or individuals committing or supporting terrorist attacks such as the one of 11.09.2001 seems to me to be a good measure. we have here a list of individuals and organizations who are simply assumed to have been involved in some way in the terrorist attacks in new york and washington. it is possible, however, to take action against them - even without any procedure under national law and without any evidence. this measure would be comparable to a preventive detention where suspects are not yet sentenced definitively. in the event of possible but unproven complicity in the crimes, persons in pre-trial detention are released and compensated. such regulations are lacking here. the provisions of article 2 (2) also make it possible to add other unpopular persons and organisations to the list, which is open to challenge under national law. since the council of ministers for home affairs and justice has already discussed urban violence in connection with terrorism, i fear that the bank accounts of people or organisations who, for example, protest against eu policy at european summits, will be blocked. by voting for this resolution, i would have approved a reckless and arbitrary act. therefore, although i strongly condemn terrorism, i voted against it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the guns are assembled, so they say. the kla has disbanded, she says. and we all know that there are still many, many weapons in macedonia, and the question of a criminal organization is not off the table. it's for those who want it. i always assume that most albanians want it. i also assume that most macedonians want it. but the problem in the minds of many slav macedonians has not been solved yet, otherwise we would never have had the problem. in recent years, nothing has been done to really equitably involve the 28% albanian minority as equal citizens. if this had been tackled not two years ago, but seven or eight years ago, and if all citizens had been made equal citizens continuously, then i think the rebels would not have had the opportunity to have such an easy game. it is a pity, and a pity for the macedonian public, that it now looks as if they will only react when criminal elements are, so to speak, invading the country. it is a pity, but this is the fault of all the political parties in the country. finally, we have achieved what we have always asked for as a parliament. i would also like to remind you, as mr swoboda said, that we do not want a divided country. macedonia is a state. it should remain a state, and it should not be divided along ethnic or national lines. anyone who thinks that is wrong is hurting the whole region. this is really something that is dangerous. i very much hope that this new parliament will now also try to implement the laws quickly. the problem is that we are now hearing again that what they have agreed to is now being called into question once again and that parliament is being interrupted constantly. there are occasions, of course. then, at tetovo, the macedonian police are attacked by someone again. you wonder who did it, why. we must therefore ask all our colleagues down there, very carefully but firmly, to make real progress on the road to the ohrid agreement. we cannot allow them to fall into this terrible idea of holding a referendum and then postponing this constitutional amendment until st nimmerlein's day. this can't be. we, hannes swoboda, joost lagendijk and myself, will try to influence our colleagues down there tomorrow and the day after. i also think it is very important that an amnesty be granted - by whoever it is, it is in the laws of the country - but an amnesty that does not grant amnesty to what should actually be investigated in the hague. i think we need to make a fine distinction. i would, of course, like parliament to adopt as soon as possible all the laws which strengthen local autonomy and which also give minorities, who are the majority in some regions, the opportunity to take real responsibility for their fellow citizens. i believe that if they go on this way, we can have, as john said, peaceful situations at the end of this year.
mr president, if now - and we hope this will happen soon - the constitutional amendments and reform laws come into force in macedonia, then this country will have a minority right that goes far beyond the standards in most european countries and most eu member states. we always talk very grandly about european standards which in reality do not exist in this form, and we often ask other countries to respect criteria which many of our own eu countries are not prepared to respect. however, i am glad that this positive development has taken place in macedonia, not only because of the recent violence, but also since two years ago, when the georgivski government began to initiate a process of reform here. the violence has again put this at risk. i am glad that the european union and other international organisations, including nato, have managed to ensure that this reform process has not just been halted, but has been not only continued, but even improved and accelerated. but this should not be a reason to eat up the macedonians with a mere thank you, so to speak. i also agree with what mr haarder said, that we owe them a debt of gratitude. but this thank you must be concrete. we must finally move on this endlessly bullying treatment of the name issue. we must finally move on the financial resources for this country, which must benefit the whole country, including the east and the south, which are particularly underdeveloped, and not just some regions particularly affected by the crisis or the capital. the most important thing is that we must finally accept this country as a partner, as it is under the association and stabilisation agreements. we do not need special instruments, we do not need some sort of pseudo-protectorate or protectorate status, as is still apparently thought in some quarters, including in connection with the idea of special agencies and so on. i consider this country a partner. the association agreement is the instrument for cooperation with that country. we must continue to accompany it in partnership on its way to the european union. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. twelve years ago, a czech civil rights activist in prague wanted to ask a western head of government for help against the threat of imprisonment. this western head of government didn't receive him. a few months later, the civil rights leader, václav havel, was president. the western head of government made every effort to have a conversation with the czech president. the commission has not received it because it wanted to make it clear that this recognition of inhuman realities, which is contrary to human rights, is not acceptable. the european union countries are pursuing a similar policy towards vietnam today. this is a policy of autosuggestion. it is said that vietnam is on the road to reform. it is said that vietnam today has no more oppressive regime than in previous years. but reality clearly speaks a different language. the persecution of civil rights activists there has increased. the injustice, the suppression of press freedom have increased; the repression of religious freedom has increased. if we look at the situation as it really is, we must realize that this regime cannot be brought onto a path of reform without massive external pressure. economic interests and geostrategic interests will not last in the long run unless the rule of law is restored throughout south-east asia and especially in this country, vietnam. it is therefore in the interest of the european union to finally stop the policy of autosuggestion and to speak out clearly about the human rights violations there. the european parliament did this before 1989 with regard to central and eastern europe. it was relatively lonely at the time and has been vindicated by development. the european parliament is doing this again today with regard to vietnam, and i call on the commission and, of course, on the council and the member states to adopt a more aggressive human rights policy towards vietnam and to speak clearly, because in this region of the world we are dependent on this important country with its great culture to return to a more democratic, reformist development based on the rule of law. only then can it be a meaningful partner in the long term.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the people of east timor on the peaceful and democratic elections to the constituent assembly on 30 august. it is a particular honour for me to be able to speak to east timor today, as i was there from 23 august to 11 september as head of the eu election observation mission and i was able to see firsthand the importance of the elections for the people of east timor. before i get to the substance, however, i should like to congratulate untaet and in particular sergio vieira de mello on the work they have done, often in the most difficult conditions. i would also like to highlight the work of the independent electoral commission, the european commission, here and on the ground, and the smooth cooperation with the undp, the portuguese embassy and the belgian presidency. east timor has taken the first step towards independence and the establishment of its own state. the country is facing enormous challenges and the continued support of the international community and the european union is all the more necessary. it is therefore essential that un peacekeeping forces and civilian police forces remain in the country until east timor is able to assume these security responsibilities itself. the eu member states must do their bit at the un to achieve this. it is important that the european union and the un, as well as other donor countries such as portugal and germany, maintain their technical and financial assistance, that the commission and the council welcome an application by east timor to join the acp the everything but arms programme, for example, could be implemented immediately and that the eu supports the east timorese government in developing a master plan for the country's development. in this context, the eu should pay particular attention to rural development and health. the administrative sector as a whole also needs to be further strengthened and, in some cases, even rebuilt. the basis and central element of all development projects will be education. because one thing is clear, these democratic elections are a very important step for the future of the country. but we must not forget that they are only the first step of many that must be taken on the road to a functioning democracy and civil society. it is also important for further institutional development that the eu is involved again in the conduct of the presidential elections and the necessary voter education. there are many other things to say, but above all, we must not allow ourselves to be dragged out of our responsibilities, now that the foundations of an independent state have been laid, and leave the people who are only beginning to overcome the trauma of the terrible events of 1999 alone. we must be prepared to accept that our support will be needed for many years to come. the key to this will be the efficient coordination of aid measures to achieve their objectives. i am sure from the many conversations i have had on the ground that the east timorese are aware of the problems facing the country and they know only too well how difficult the road ahead will be. let us now work with them as equal partners. we are also sending a positive signal to the international community that it is possible to solve problems peacefully and to initiate developments, especially at this time. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the tragic events of recent months have put foreign and security policy in the spotlight of public opinion. the events in the middle east and america are not to be overlooked, but the problems in the caucasus are just as explosive. the situation in georgia, armenia and azerbaijan continues to give cause for concern, including the relations between these three states. political instability has repeatedly threatened the still unfinished independence process. as a result, violent conflicts within these countries often receive public attention. the history of europe, and especially of the european union, shows that it is possible to form alliances and alliances, and thus to cross borders, despite differences and differences of interests between states. where wars once dominated the scene, today there is a coexistence based on democracy and peace. the basis for this was the development of democratic structures and the emphasis on commonalities, which helped the countries of western europe to overcome differences. in view of the global anti-terrorist coalition that has emerged since the terrible attacks in the united states on 11 september, it is therefore necessary to support the countries of the south caucasus in their fight against terrorism and violence, which unfortunately still exist in these countries and threaten the lives of many people every day. the democratic structures there are still relatively young and unstable. to make matters worse, there is a danger that outside parties will foment discord and that neighbouring states in the region may try to obstruct or stop this democratic process for selfish reasons. for these reasons, it must be a key task of the european union to strengthen its support for the democratization process in georgia, armenia and azerbaijan. democracy is the only basis for lasting internal stability, which will in future also be manifested across borders. the european union and the current belgian presidency should, however, be concerned solely with helping and supporting the democratic process, and not with interfering in internal affairs. in concrete terms, this means that the cooperation and cohesion of these countries must be strengthened, including with regard to a possible free trade area, which should be set up free of external influences. initial approaches to trilateral cooperation are available, but they need to be further developed and promoted in order to successfully counter existing external influences. if the common rich cultural heritage of these countries is included in this process, i am confident that important results and successes can be achieved in the medium and long term. as chairman of the european parliament's delegation to the south caucasus, i regard the visit of the union troika to sweden in february as a basis for the necessary initiatives. the joint motion for a resolution by seven political groups expresses the broad agreement of the members of the european parliament on this point. i hope the commission will take up our request.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have already pointed out here years ago that the caucasus and central asia are in danger of becoming the balkans of the future. almost no one has taken care of this region, and among the heads of government it seems almost only the pope has taken care of the caucasus region, and what is the pope among the heads of state is ursula schleicher here in the european parliament, who is taking care of this region, which has been forgotten by many, in an exemplary way. i am afraid that the events of 11 september will be used to create new zones of influence, behind which entire peoples and nationalities will forget their problems or will sacrifice their energy interests. and mr putin's appearance in the reichstag makes many people forget that it was he who reignited the war in chechnya, that he was the one who, as head of intelligence under mr yeltsin, fomented and exploited the conflicts in mingrelia or nagorno-karabakh. that is why this european region deserves our solidarity and we must make sure that we are present. i would therefore ask you, commissioner, to take a close look at mr putin's words. and if it is true that he is interested in improving the situation there, then tell him that you are going to chechnya, that you want to take the test there for more openness, for more presence of the european union. as regards the three south caucasian countries, we need commission representatives not only in georgia but also in the other two countries. this is a region where europe's survival is at stake, not only strategically and in terms of energy supply, but also in terms of human rights and our cultural ties to this region.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is not just a large number of women who will be shocked to see an american company, by way of patenting, quasi-appropriate so-called breast cancer genes. it must make everyone's blood run cold when the pursuit of money and profit puts the health of many people at risk. and that's exactly what's threatened by the patent division of the brca1 and brca2 genes. the bad consequence of these patents is that many patients risk delaying early detection of breast cancer. but in this particular cancer, early detection is critical to the chances of a cure. in addition, the quasi-monopolisation of testing procedures is driving up costs so much that for many women early detection of breast cancer is out of reach. finally, it should not be overlooked that the brca patents are hampering research in europe. one of the leading institutions in the field of cancer research - the curie institute in paris - has made a powerful point and has proved it beyond doubt. it is very welcome that this respected research institution is taking a stand and, with the support of the french ministry of health, is appealing against the granting of the patent. the european parliament is certainly not wrong to adopt this position. it is good that we ask the competent services to immediately object to the brca patents granted by the european patent office in munich. at the same time, it is important that we call on the institutions and governments of the member states of the european union to also object with the necessary urgency. we owe it to the women who were affected. it's the least we can do for her at this point.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european court of justice will decide next tuesday, on the basis of the application lodged by the netherlands, supported by italy and norway, on the compatibility of the patents directive with the treaty. today, with its vote, the european parliament will make a choice between reality and the directive. because brca patents are the very thing that makes it clear that this is where drugs are being overpriced, this is where monopolies are being created that are preventing effective diagnosis and treatment and blocking the search for new and useful drugs. it is therefore high time that the commission - and i ask the commissioner present to give his opinion - finally put an end to the contradictions in the interpretation of this directive, and that it does so either by amending the directive or by means of guidelines. i think the commission should not bury its head in the sand and say, well, we know that many member states have problems with this directive because they do not know how to apply it; we know that the european patent office interprets it in a certain way. i would therefore urge you very strongly to comment on this matter at a later stage. the human body must not be degraded into biological material. human genes or living organisms or their components shall not be subject to patent protection. a discovery must not be interpreted as an invention. we must prevent the monopoly of human genes from hindering the search for new and useful medicines. we cannot allow early detection of breast cancer to be put on the back burner because it is a matter of creating a patent protection for something that is not an invention, but at most a discovery. so not only has the european parliament been called upon - and i think we have made it quite clear with this resolution that we do not want to see this happen - but also the commission and the member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not talking about the cause, but about the institutional issues. parliament has already refused - or at least refrained - from lodging an objection with the european patent office. that's right. parliament is the legislator and a legislator cannot interfere in a process that is in progress. you can't do that! this is, so to speak, the basic principle of a democracy based on the rule of law! the legislator adopts a law - in this case, the directive - which will be confirmed by the european court of justice next week. it is then the authorities who apply the directive and grant or refuse to grant a patent, and then it is the courts who decide whether or not that grant or refusal was justified. that is the procedure, and otherwise there is no procedure in a democracy governed by the rule of law! the legislator - in this case the european parliament - cannot therefore interfere in an ongoing procedure. the european parliament has no more competence in this matter than, for example, the commission or a green party congress or a greenpeace assembly. the commission does not decide how a directive is to be applied, nor does the european parliament, nor the greens, nor greenpeace, but the authorities who are responsible. they decide that, the courts decide that, and no one else! and that's a good thing! i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my predecessor made a remark. i think mr rothley has attacked me personally. i would like to point out once again that there is no court at the european patent office. there's a board of appeals. there's a big difference. i say this so that the honourable member is also informed accordingly. it is very clear that the patent relates to genes, even mutated genes, and to the method of analysis, for the sake of accuracy. i would advise those of you who are interested to consult the website of the curie institute in france, which, as a renowned research institute, has objected to this, and which lists the details. in fact, it is only an invention that needs to be patented, not a discovery. the first is that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we cannot therefore wait for the fiori report, which will not be considered until october ii. it is also wrong to say that mr rothley: we are legislators, but his own minister of justice in germany, mrs däubler-gmelin, once used this procedure. even the federal government has filed an objection to a patent granted by the patent office in 1999.
mr president, i will not go into the content again, i just want to correct something that was accidentally put in the room. i spoke for the group of the party of european socialists and what i said applies to our group. i just wanted to make that right.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to support very strongly what mrs oomen-ruijten said! commissioner, you can't leave until the last minute. i too expect the commission to take a position on this by 9 october. you said there were no objections to the ethical side, but you are looking at the protection of the invention. but you have not answered the question put by myself, mr blokland and others, whether article 5 (1) now applies or whether article 5 (2) has a higher priority. i think that is what many of the members here are also expecting, namely that the commission should clarify this very important and crucial question.
mr president, i am speaking of course of procedure. i thank the commission for its explanation. i would like to expressly encourage them in their position. it can be sure that it has the support of the vast majority of parliament.
mr president, this is a very serious matter. i would ask the commission to examine very seriously whether these patents granted are really in accordance with the patents directive and not to pretend that parliament has no say in this matter and cannot take decisions! i would also like you to follow up seriously what the european parliament decides afterwards.
- madam president! - what is it? since mr cohn-bendit has asked me to speak, i should like to answer him here in the house. the conference of presidents confirmed the majority vote of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy and also proposed the runner-up, who also received a high number of votes, so that three personalities are proposed. i would also like to say to you, mr cohn-bendit, that whenever you wish, i am at your disposal not only by telephone but also for private personal talks.
- mr president, i have to go. there is no doubt that nuclear facilities are not completely safe from terrorist attacks. no reactor could withstand the impact of a boeing 747. any other claim would simply be false. but what is true of nuclear plants is also true of other technical systems. mr vitorino rightly pointed out that a dam can be destroyed and the consequences can be devastating, as a look back at the second world war shows. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in addition, for safety reasons, some gas pressure vessels are already operated at lower gas pressure. if methane, which escapes from a high-pressure container - a heavy machine gun, for example, is enough - were to be released and spread over the city, the city would simply burn up if it mixed with the surrounding air. we've had accidents like this in the past. thank god we've avoided them for the last ten years. the same is true of the water supply. poisoning water is relatively easy. the consequences, as we can all imagine, would be unpredictable. i accept that in our countries there are some who are against nuclear energy, in some countries it may even be the majority. i respect that, even though i don't share that opinion. but with the argument of terrorist attacks, we could also say goodbye to the gas industry or stop drinking water, and i think that is absurd. my conclusion simply follows the line laid down by the commission. it is admittedly not very effective, but it has the advantage of being reasonable. we should identify the hazardous installations, improve the security of the object, perhaps take further safety measures. these safety measures should also be taken without delay. we don't need studies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is only at the cost of total surveillance, which is incompatible with a free state based on the rule of law.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i have a small dream which is coming true today: i have ten minutes to speak, which is the usual time for a group chairman. but that's because two reports were merged that don't belong together. i would therefore like to separate them in my speech. first, the area of civil law. with the entry into force of the maastricht treaty in 1993, judicial cooperation in civil matters became a matter for the member states. the treaty of amsterdam then transferred this cooperation from the third pillar to the first pillar by means of article 65 of the treaty. since its entry into force, there has been a flurry of european legislation on this subject. the council adopted a regulation on the insolvency procedure and on the service of documents in civil and commercial matters, and proposals for regulations on the taking of evidence and on the rights of access were submitted to the council. finally, with the entry into force of the current treaty of nice, future decisions in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters will be taken by the council by qualified majority under the codecision procedure. you see, there's really a rapid development in this area. however, the content and design of vocational training in civil justice remain the sole responsibility of the member states. the community's role is to assist the member states, whether in removing obstacles to the application of community law or in cooperation between judicial authorities. in no area of european law is the continuing training of the professions so essential as in the already well-advanced field of harmonized civil law. criminal and administrative law, on the other hand, are still at the beginning of european development. in the past, the union has supported this training with two programmes. grotius, the joint support and exchange programme for the legal professions, ended in 2000. the support was maintained only by a temporary one-year successor programme, grotius-civil law. the three-year action programme robert schuman, which was designed to increase the awareness of lawyers of community law, also came to an end in the same year. the commission proposal before us today now provides the legal basis for further funding of activities in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters. this will promote judicial cooperation and mutual knowledge of the legal order, as well as measures to implement and apply community legislation in this field and to improve public information. in addition to financing specific projects, financial support for the running costs of non-governmental european bodies is also envisaged for the first time. i can only support this very strongly. the fact that the accession countries are also allowed to participate is also particularly welcome. in addition to the general satisfaction with the direction of this proposal, which is also enhanced by a generous financial framework of eur 14.5 million until 2006, some critical points remain. the requirement that non-governmental organisations only apply for funding if two thirds of the member states participate is already almost unenforceable. in view of the forthcoming enlargement, it therefore seems urgently appropriate to reduce this threshold to one third. otherwise the good approach of the regulation on this point would be immediately stifled. i also wonder why the commission, contrary to its usual practice, fails to define precisely the applicants - in this case the legal professions - as was the case in the grotius programmes. the debate on the money laundering directive has shown us how necessary definitions are in this area. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. i therefore proposed adopting the old definition from the grotius programme on civil law. i would like to make one further comment on this matter: i would have liked the union to continue to finance projects up to 80% of the cost and not reduce this to 50%. unfortunately, that was not the wish of the committee responsible. i think, however, that the european union still has a great responsibility for the further development of judicial cooperation. this responsibility will be greater in the future than it will be smaller. we must continue to be the engine here. that was the first part of the explanation, the civil law area. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe. the schengen information system was established in 1995 on the basis of the 1990 schengen implementing convention. as a transnational computerised police tracing system, it now provides online access to more than 8 million tracing data, making it the most comprehensive database in europe. in addition to 13 member states of the european union, it is also used by iceland and norway. the sis is thus a successful component of a new european internal security policy, the need for which arises from the dismantling of internal borders and the consequent loss of control. two problems are on our minds today. first, the technical development. the schengen information system as we know it today was originally designed for 18 member states. since all the current applicant countries will also participate in sis upon accession, it is urgent to start thinking about a successor system today. the technological development has also made progress. the initiative of the kingdoms of belgium and sweden to develop sis ii is therefore very welcome. as the preparatory work for the development of sis ii will take more than three years, these initiatives will provide the necessary budgetary legal basis. however, the initiators also went a little over the top. in order to ensure the greatest possible influence on technical developments, the participation of the member states in the comitology procedure should be carried out by a combination of management and regulatory committees. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. i do not see why, at a stage of development when only technical aspects are to be discussed, the member states should be consulted and involved in every detail. the proposal to set up a regulatory committee for all matters relating to the architecture of the system and the technical aspects of data protection is also contrary to council decision 468/99. the regulatory procedure is therefore to be used only for measures of general scope intended to implement essential provisions of basic acts. but this is clearly not the case here. i would also like to draw the attention of the council representatives to the fact that, for example, the establishment of eurodac has deliberately avoided a formal participation procedure and that the member states ensure their influence only through an informal network of technicians. this has saved us all a lot of time and money, and yet it has led to an efficient outcome. at the same time, i am confident in the commission's expertise in this area, which is the lead agency for development. my proposal to the member states is therefore: replace the unnecessary bureaucratic combination of administrative and regulatory procedures with a combination of administrative and consultative procedures. less is sometimes more! the second problem is the legal development. although the member states decided at the intergovernmental conference in amsterdam to integrate the schengen acquis into the eu legal area, the schengen information system was assigned to the third pillar due to a lack of agreement. the collection of data on persons who have been issued an alert for refusal of entry is, however, clearly covered by the first pillar. this is why we have two initiatives today from the belgian and swedish presidencies. as the european parliament, we are trying to integrate schengen and the schengen information system as a whole into the first pillar as far as possible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. as a step in this direction, i therefore expressly welcome the fact that the development of schengen ii will be financed from 2002 onwards from community funds. unfortunately, the initiative forgets to submit the commission's semiannual progress reports to parliament. it is hardly conceivable to apply the budgetary procedure of the european community to the financing of schengen ii without wanting to inform the budgetary legislator, namely parliament, of developments. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i apologize if i have to leave in about 15 minutes - this also concerns other colleagues - but then the committee on the interior is meeting. we must also take part in votes there. in that sense, it's not disrespectful to the house! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. instead of talking about the approval of a new generation of the schengen information system sis ii, we should be talking about the fatal effects of the information system that already exists. i think it is a scandal that the vast majority of people registered in the sis are not charged with a crime. the names of only 11 000 people are stored in these computers because of a request for arrest for extradition. 780 000 alerts are for people who are refused entry to all eu member states. under article 99 of the schengen implementing convention, sis may also be used to obtain information to defend against a serious threat or other serious threat posed by data subjects. this provision allows the names of completely innocent citizens to be found in the sis computers. this data was used, for example, to impose unjustified entry bans on demonstrators at the genoa summit. as long as this is the case, we cannot in any way agree to the further development of this schengen information system.
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr von boetticher. i am speaking of the european area of civil justice. with the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam, judicial cooperation in civil matters was transferred from the third to the first pillar. since then, the european community has developed an ambitious work programme in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters. a detailed study of the grotius programme led to the conclusion that there is a need for a further, more general framework for activities in this area. the new framework will allow the continuation of the actions already financed under the grotius programme. i very much welcome this proposal for a regulation from the commission which is intended to create the legal basis for the financing of judicial cooperation in civil matters from the eu budget. for the first time, the framework also allows financial support to european non-governmental organisations, provided that they are non-profit-making and that their objective is to promote judicial cooperation. it is very welcome that all these activities are open to the participation of candidate countries as well as third countries. the limitation proposed by the rapporteur and accepted by the committee to one third of the member states concerned is realistic and far-sighted, especially in the light of the forthcoming enlargement to 2006. this regulation shall not apply to denmark, ireland and the united kingdom. however, legal professionals from these countries may participate in the projects alongside those from the candidate countries and other countries. the concept of legal advice in this regulation has a completely different background than in the money laundering directive. in this respect, a definition in the sense of a final listing, as proposed by the rapporteur, inhibits future flexibility in the handling of the scheme in the present case and limits its scope. this is particularly so because of the difficulty of correctly translating into all the community languages without changing the meaning of the terms used in each profession, especially since in future there could be variants of professions in individual member states to which participation would then be closed. i would therefore prefer that there were no list of these occupations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. what is the schengen information system supposed to achieve? the objectives are to improve police cooperation in criminal matters, to harmonise immigration and visa policies and to control the free movement of persons. this control is directed not least against migrants who have no or almost no possibility of travelling legally to the eu and who, moreover, are in the vast majority fleeing from situations which the eu has, if not alone, played a major role in creating. but the system is directed - and many people have already mentioned this today - against disgruntled eu citizens who, for example, want to express their displeasure at summits with eu policies that are characterized by lockdowns and the capitalisation of essential areas of life. this also illustrates the implications of this update of the schengen information system. on the one hand, it is a question of making efficient use of the monitoring scenarios that are technically and geographically possible. at the same time, the eu wants to ensure that these opportunities exist and can be used. the technical change in these proposals is also intended to improve the existing monitoring structure and therefore the financing of this improvement is also necessary. and here - i disagree with my colleague mr turco - i think that democratic control would not change anything about this project. i mean, from a leftist point of view, you can't agree to this proposal. fundamental freedoms have very different functions under capitalism. but, pragmatically, they guarantee a minimum of protection of citizens from the state. in the present situation, most restrictions on fundamental rights are ....
- thank you very much, mr bolkestein! the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0302/2001) by mr goebbels, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the international monetary system.
- mr president, i have to go. the report by mr goebbels is entitled: what lasts long, finally becomes good! this is an own-initiative report dating back to 1999. at that time, the starting point was the asian crisis, the crises in russia and brazil. in the meantime, there have been a number of other minor crises and we have made progress in our work. our group fully endorsed the basic line of the rapporteur in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. we have done this not least because you have taken a clear position on the tobin tax. the international monetary system is changing. that is what your report says. we want to make suggestions in this process of change. but we can also see that the euro has been firmly established since 1999 and has fully proven itself as an anchor of stability in the world economy. this is an important contribution that europe has made to the stabilization of the international monetary system. mr goebbels has done a good job, and i should like to emphasize that. we therefore largely agree with the points he proposes: improving banking supervision, monitoring international financial activities, increasing the capacity of international organizations such as the imf and the world bank to deal effectively with crisis situations. you just said the imf needs to become more democratic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the member states must of course cooperate, because financial matters alone cannot solve the crisis. we support closer cooperation at international level between national supervisory and control authorities, a stronger coordinating role for the european central bank - a subject which is still not fully resolved and which we urge - the establishment of a systemic risk observatory at the bis, the bank for international cooperation, and the continuation of the reform efforts of the ims. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax is not imposed on the consumption of agricultural products. i have seen through the motions and i have found that the pse group also wants this examination, in accordance with amendment no 10, even though it also refers to a decision of the ecofin council. we disagree on that. we agree with your basic line and we will ask for a separate vote on this subject. the transfer of capital and therefore the benefits of the global division of labour, investment and jobs would be jeopardized if such a tax were introduced, whose technical problems are already insurmountable. that is why we are against it, otherwise we will agree to your report without a tobin tax, but not with a tobin tax.
- mr president, i have to go. thank you for indulging in such late-night pleasures. on behalf of the socialist group i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report. we support this report because it gives the right answers both in terms of the new financial architecture to be designed, the reform as a whole and crisis management, and also in terms of the needs of crisis regions and the needs of international financial markets, as well as the very important need of all societies for financial market stability. i would like to emphasize once again that i consider the stability of financial markets to be a public good to which all citizens are entitled. i would like to make a few comments on the commission's proposal. the international financial activity on the foreign exchange markets has in fact been reduced to some 1,200 billion dollars a day, and this is due to the creation of monetary union, because this is of course one of the levers for the capital flows which are hardly controllable in quantity. but we must also note that in the course of the 1990s we were dealing with a twenty-fivefold increase in turnover in derivative transactions such as swaps, options, etc. we know that less than 3% of transactions are related to the real movement of goods and services. i think it is important that we look at capital flows in the context of globalisation, on the one hand from the point of view of the returns of institutional investors and the economic and social situation, but also from the point of view of the countries importing capital. we must bear in mind that 75% of the capital invested goes to only 12 countries, and only 1% goes to sub-saharan africa. the rapporteur is therefore right to demand that we achieve a consolidation of the situation here, and that can only be achieved if we also have a more comprehensive debt relief than we have had so far. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information available to the public. they contribute to growth and employment, provided that development is stable. however, economic and social policy, regulatory and supervisory deficits still exist. that is what the report indicates. the concern about speculative exposure to the detriment of the real economy, but also the excessive volatility of the markets due to the enormous increase in the volume of transactions in various financial products, make it more necessary than ever to reform the international financial architecture. we have had 120 currency crises, and you cannot abolish them. we have not yet succeeded in developing a working system of early warning indicators, in moving towards transparency of information and in developing a code of conduct that works for everyone, and we have not yet solved the moral hazard problem. i therefore consider it very important that the demands of this report should also be incorporated into the negotiations of the european union, which must also speak with one voice at international level. it is not just a question of having a monetary area, but also of speaking with one voice internationally on financial market policy and on the question of the world financial architecture. the introduction of the euro is a contribution to financial stability, and our financial system is better protected against external shocks, but we still have to go further, because monetary union is only a contribution to stability in europe and the world.
- thank you very much, commissioner solbes! the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the next item is the report (doc. (the sitting was closed at 8.47 p.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs ghilardotti. firstly, it has shown great flexibility in committee, including the adoption of a number of our epp proposals. secondly, your very good report on the common position on the framework directive on minimum standards for the national information and consultation of employees points in the right direction. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the introduction of a european works council directive, which is intended to ensure that the work of the european works council is coordinated and coordinated. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but they must no longer take the form of raids, as is so often the case - see the vilvoorde shock at renault - but only after prior information has been given to the workers concerned. the ecsc directive has many parallels. however, the provisions on the european works council apply only to transnational concentrations; however, restructuring often takes place at national level. the european people's party is in favour of flexibility. the social partners of the enterprise may, for example, by agreement, make a special tailor-made arrangement for information and consultation for the enterprise. that is subsidiarity. the common position is right: agreements should be able to be more favourable or less favourable than minimum standards. however, the rights of local works councils under national law must not be called into question. article 1 requires that the procedure be carried out in a spirit of cooperation. that means partnership. the partnership aims at a clear representation of interests on the one hand and at balancing interests in a joint dialogue through information and consultation on the other. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. timely information means transparency, which creates trust and avoids friction losses for businesses. the winners are employers and employees alike. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the right of workers to consultation and information has been enshrined in the charter of fundamental social rights for many years. but what is the use of a national or eu-wide legal framework if workers are too often confronted with facts, if they only learn about restructuring processes after the fact or from the media? i support amendment no 5 by mrs ghilardotti, which calls for consultation during the planning phase, so that qualified influence can be exercised. there was a long debate on amendment no 7, which sets out the content of the information to be given to employers. this includes the economic situation market developments, organisational structure, company strategy , but also the financial situation with sales and production figures. this is internal information and not an implied control of investment. in an age where more and more employees are financially involved in companies, they are equally capable of thinking entrepreneurially, locally and globally. they are willing to contribute to meaningful strategies that make their businesses more competitive. the dialogue between informed social partners is an essential requirement. we also need continuing training and further training for skilled workers. people who know the details are a productivity boost. these employees are also willing to contribute to critical decisions. this is another element of a modern organizational structure. the dialogue between the social partners is particularly important in small and medium-sized enterprises. mr president, you are right to be very active in supporting smes. this dialogue should be promoted in the member states in accordance with their national provisions. in the face of competitive pressures, in the face of the challenges of globalisation, there is no alternative to intra-company cooperation, if it is based on fairness, openness and timely information. (applause from the centre)
commission. – mr president, first i would like to apologise: in my introduction i did not mention mrs jensen, and i would really like to congratulate her on an excellent job. as far as mrs ghilardotti is concerned, we all know what a difficult job she had and she has. she had to strike a balance between completely different political, national, social and economic views, and i would like to congratulate her and to thank all the members of parliament who have participated in the debate and supported the commission's proposal through this process. this is an important proposal and, once adopted, it will add an indispensable element to workers' rights. recent events, with mass lay-offs across europe, have only underlined the urgent need for different kinds of instruments and this proposal – this directive – information and consultation is a very important instrument. once adopted, the directive will ensure better anticipation of crises and will contribute to developing a positive attitude towards change by both management and workers. let me tell you that i fully understand all your requests. most, if not all, of the issues they raise were the subject of intense debate within all the institutions. the text before us strikes a delicate balance between different points of view and divergent interests on the sensitive issues at stake. while i understand your desire to improve the text, it would be unwise, in my view, to depart now from that balance and jeopardise the actual adoption of the proposal. i refer in particular to amendments nos 1, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10, 11, 16, 18 and 19. therefore, the commission is not prepared to accept those amendments. however, a number of the proposed amendments are acceptable, in full or in part, to the commission, as they will improve the text. these are amendments nos 3, 6, 8, 13 and 14. the commission will, therefore, actively support these amendments and will do its utmost to facilitate consensus on them between parliament and the council. allow me, before moving to the two most important issues – sanctions and transitional periods – to respond to mrs sandbæk, as far as the danish model is concerned. i would like to underline the fact that the current text strikes a balance between the necessary protection of workers and the autonomy of the social partners, as contracting partners. they can freely conclude agreements which are not fully in line with the provisions of article 4, but they have to take into account the principles which are established in article 1 and in national law. now, we know that the most difficult and controversial issues are the two which i have already referred to: sanctions and transitional periods. with regard to the first of these issues, amendment no 2 and especially amendment no 12 propose reinforced sanctions, including judicial suspension procedures in cases of serious breach of information and consultation obligations. this amendment, while reinforcing the common position, offers a compromise with the commission's original proposal. it is, therefore, undeniable that parliament is making a step in the direction of the council, in a serious search for a final compromise. i would like to thank you for your support of the commission's stance on this very important element of the directive. nevertheless, taking into account the sensitivity of the issue in the council, the best basis for a final compromise on this issue would be to limit the request to the first sentence of the proposed amendment. under these circumstances, the commission can accept amendment no 2 and the first paragraph of amendment no 12. we can accept amendment no 2 with a minor change. finally amendment no 15 which seeks to delete article 10 – on transitional periods – is equally a major issue. in the past, the commission has always opposed this kind of provision which tends to grant different treatment to different member states. this time, we can see some justification in it. some member states will clearly have to introduce major changes to their industrial relations systems. therefore, the commission is of the opinion that article 10 of the common position constitutes a fair compromise and it cannot accept this amendment. to sum up, the commission can accept in full or in spirit amendments nos 3 and 8; it can accept in part amendments nos 2, 6, 12, 13 and 14. it rejects amendments nos 1, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, 18 and 19. i know that you fully appreciate the challenges ahead of us: we need to do everything possible to find an acceptable compromise between the co-legislators. i think that our big challenge is to strike the balance between what we think is desirable and what is achievable or possible.
- thank you very much, madam commissioner diamantopoulou! the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
- the report (a5-0360/2001) by mrs weiler, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a council decision (com (2001) 511 - c5-0498/2001 - 2001/0208 (cns)) on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states in 2002; the commission's communication (com (2001) 438 - c5-0423/2001 - 2001/2168) on the draft joint report on employment in 2001 is intended to provide a framework for the implementation of the european employment strategy.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. employment policy in the european union has been successful in the past year, although not all of our ambitious targets have been achieved. but the course is set. there are few areas where you have to think as long term as in employment policy. i have the impression that the member states have not only understood this, but are also acting on it. my report is in line with the line taken by the parliamentary committee in recent years. we have always been critical and constructive in our support of the employment process in the member states. this year, therefore, i have focused on some new priorities. it is the new issue of quality of work for the first time. on this point we in parliament agree with the initiative of the commission and the belgian presidency, which have also placed the quality of work as a very high priority on the agenda. we would like to see this issue mainstreamed into all policy areas. the second point is equality between women and men in the labour market. here too, according to the commission figures, we have made progress: women's employment rates have increased by at least 2%. it is not enough, of course, but it is the right way forward and it also shows that the member states are rethinking their approach. this change of thinking - which was not so easy - means that at least in some member states, such as germany, greece and ireland, there has also been a change of consciousness. the third point which is of great importance to me is the integration of disadvantaged groups into the labour market. this has been an important issue for parliament for many years. i have advocated in my report that immigrants should also be included in labour market policies. i think that is an important aspect for the future, particularly in view of the fact that we are creating new social focal points. the commission has already made a number of proposals. there has been some debate in our committee about whether it makes sense to demand a right to continuing training and to instruct national governments to implement it. i think that at a time when we are already facing bottlenecks in certain sectors, which are due to a lack of training and continuing training, such a national right to continuing training would be the need of the hour. i'm convinced, by the way, that we'll have that in four or five years. why should parliament not even be a pioneer? the implementation of these policy objectives requires national and european targets. in addition, i believe that more collaboration between business and academia is needed than has been the case so far to enable efficient knowledge transfer and to initiate entrepreneurial innovation at a faster rate than has been the case in the past. i also appeal to the member states, the council and the belgian presidency to have the courage to launch a public debate on employment policy in europe. we find that there is still little or no discussion of employment policy in europe in national parliaments - with the possible exception of denmark - and also in regional and national parliaments. the social partners at regional level also do not know what meaningful debates and decisions we take in the european parliament. the commission's proposals are not only a means of improving the quality of life of the citizens of the community but also a means of ensuring that the quality of life of the citizens of the community is not undermined. i would like to say that we in parliament are not yet satisfied with the objectives and the debates in the council on this point. i think that a little more courage will be needed here on the part of the finance ministers in the ecofin council to guarantee here too the appropriate balanced objective for a meaningful european employment policy, because only then can an offensive for growth and employment in europe be realised. (applause from the centre)
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. we believe that the national states have the primary responsibility for creating the appropriate framework for more employment. the european union can of course help. but i think that the dialogue between the ministers of the various member states is particularly important here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe it is extremely important that countries learn from each other and not make the same mistakes that others make. the best performing countries are those that have created jobs on the basis of sound fiscal policies and have taken the necessary structural reforms earlier than others. we must also ask ourselves: who is actually creating jobs? it is not the state, and often not the big companies, that are actually cutting jobs. it is small and mediumsized enterprises that create the most jobs. if we are to succeed, starting new businesses is particularly important. it is a question of creating the right framework for this. we must ensure that the european union is not the institution that makes life even more difficult for small and mediumsized enterprises or makes it more difficult for them to start up. the european union's action must focus on creating a framework that will give these companies better opportunities.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unemployment is the most serious problem facing our european economies. young people, women, the elderly, and the disabled are particularly affected. there is a lack of access to education, vocational training, retraining and, of course, to jobs. the weak must be strengthened in solidarity. mrs weil is right to highlight the luxembourg summit of 1997. since the guidelines for employment policy, member states have been recognizing colour. progress is being made in lifelong learning, the application of best practice, the involvement of the social partners and action plans for local and regional employment. what is still lacking, however, is mainly incentives to actively seek employment and to invest in research and development, the reduction of the tax burden on labour and structural reforms. i think that the report lacks long-term strategies, not hasty measures to deal with growth sluggishness. the tragic events of september 11 are not the cause of everything. growth forecasts had to be revised considerably, for example in germany from 3% in january to 0.75% this week. chancellor schröder will not reach his target of 3.5 million unemployed in an election year, as the figure is expected to accelerate to 3.8 million. the so-called steady hand is shaking. an additional 2.5 billion euros will be needed for unemployment benefits and the federal employment agency. if germany's growth engine stutters, the impact will be felt throughout the european union. it is high time for financial relief for smes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, including the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, and the introduction of a new system of taxation. i call on the social partners to make employment contracts more flexible and to continue to modernise the organisation of work. i am counting on the expertise and commitment of responsible managers and employees.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mrs weiler, i share many of your assessments and conclusions. i also think that much of what has been put forward by the commission is a clear step forward. i would also like to congratulate you, mrs weiler, on this work, but i would also like to point out three major problems that i see in reality, which is not quite as good as some of the commission's assessments or the report. the first is the strategy of basing full employment on 3% growth by 2010. i thought it was illusory from the beginning. the problem is that other forms of combating unemployment have been neglected. unfortunately, if you are now advocating shorter working hours, you are already isolated from the social democracy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. the second problem is - mr andersson has just pointed this out - the division of employment policy developments. of course, there are some positive trends. full-time employment has increased for technicians, engineers and managers. there are indeed winners of modernization. but the downside is a marked increase in parttime employment, particularly among women, which now stands at 45.7% in the european union. the third problem is that you have mentioned the quality of work, but i think the social content of work is largely ignored. employment law is 'flexibilised' but in reality relaxed. we have a promotion of the low-wage sector, and the right of the longterm unemployed to choose their own occupation is even restricted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
- thank you very much, madam commissioner diamantopoulou! the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0320/2001) by mrs thorning-schmidt, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the common position adopted by the council (c5-0293/2001 - 1992/0449 (cod)) with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the minimum health and safety requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (vibration) (sixteenth individual directive within the meaning of article 16 (1) of directive 89/391/eec).
- thank you very much, madam commissioner diamantopoulou! ladies and gentlemen, when i hear the noise in this chamber, i think we will soon need a directive on noise in the chamber during a debate! the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
the rapporteur. the commission is not i would like to make a few brief remarks on the procedure. in accordance with article 247 of the treaty, the council is to appoint nine members of the court of auditors after consulting parliament. four of the members to be appointed are in the process of being reappointed, namely france, luxembourg, the netherlands and austria. they shall be reappointed for a term of six years. three new members are appointed from germany, greece and the united kingdom. two are to take over from their predecessors who leave office early for the remaining four years. this concerns the countries of denmark and sweden. this is made possible by article 247 (6) of the treaty. the committee on budgetary control was entrusted by the president of parliament with the task of hearing the proposed members of the court of auditors, in accordance with rule 35 of the rules of procedure. we held these hearings in open session on 10 september and 8 and 9 october. afterwards, there was a brief in-camera discussion followed by a secret vote on each candidate. of course, the hearings were also conducted for each candidate individually. the hearing and the subsequent vote by secret ballot have resulted in a positive vote for all the nominated members and we recommend this to the plenary.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission is not i would like to make one point for my committee, namely the prince programme. it is very important for us that the euro information campaign continues for another six months. despite the large-scale campaigns, we have found a lack of information, especially among small and mediumsized enterprises, and this programme is intended to remedy this. as the permanent rapporteur for the agencies, i can say at this stage that the major acute problems have been solved with the help of my colleagues in the committee on budgets, but also with the help of the rapporteur-general. we have de facto taken the decision to look at the agencies individually. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to say a few things for the future: the agencies have been growing and growing for years. everyone who works there seems to have an interest in the growth of the agencies. for example, between 1995 and 2001, the number of staff in the agencies increased by 366%. this year alone, we're adding 99 new jobs. i have the impression that many of the european agencies have a kind of life of their own. the budget procedure is always about one demand: we need more money! the consequences of this development are clear. the agencies are taking up all the room for other programmes, and eventually the community will have to bear the pension costs for these too. we have to change some things. the budget will no longer be adjusted to the programmes decided by the administrative board, but the programmes will have to be adjusted to the budgetary appropriations. we need effective control of the agencies, with the participation of all the actors involved on a permanent basis, that is to say, the parliament's special committees must also carry out an evaluation. what we really need is to examine whether the services provided in the agencies are needed and then put to use. we must get the whole thing under control, involving the budgetary control, the court of auditors and all the other players. i shall try in the coming weeks to create a structure for this which can be used in the next budgetary procedure.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on agriculture and rural development. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the committee on agriculture, in its address to the council, is opposed in principle to these linear cuts, which the council is making again and again. we think that is a rather unimaginative way of dealing with budget lines. we believe that the letter of amendment will be the right basis for making the adjustments in each area, also with a view to the second reading. we are also continuing to call for greater flexibility in agricultural expenditure in future, in the transfer of funds from the compulsory to the non-compulsory sector. we know how complicated this is and what needs to be changed, but we will ask for this again in all the budgets before us until we have made this demand. we expressly support the commission's proposal to set up a reserve. it is necessary. we are sure that we do not need to justify the necessity. we also expect the commission to handle it responsibly when it is necessary to use it. tobacco has just been mentioned by the members of the committee on the environment. the committee on agriculture has also taken up tobacco. we are absolutely dissatisfied with the fact that the funds of the research fund for tobacco are not being used sufficiently. we in the committee on agriculture are also tired of having to keep rubbing our hands together over the issue of tobacco. on the one hand, there are the demands for health education and on the other hand, the need to promote tobacco cultivation. but you have to look at the reality, as long as we have farmers who grow tobacco - and they are not the richest of farmers - and as long as we cannot offer alternative crops, we cannot help them. the commission has therefore decided to extend the scope of the proposal to include the following areas: i would like to say something about sapard. we are pleased that the appropriations have been increased, but we are critical, as the commissioner is, that the council has cut the payment appropriations for sapard by 100 million. this is not right! this is not right! the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. you can't scare people. i should like to thank the rapporteur-general for the good cooperation he has had with his colleagues on the committee on agriculture.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs once again. i also thank the chairman of the committee. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it must be said that this year too the council is in fact failing to live up to its responsibilities. as part of the budgetary authority, it would be his task to defend a budget in a really coherent and politically comprehensible way. the council has not yet taken a decision on the budget, and i am not sure that it will be able to do so, but i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. at least we do not see this political concept, and it is questionable whether there ever was one. the way the council is acting is undoubtedly exacerbating the problems, because this year too, despite special tasks, preparations for enlargement and many other problems, the budget is below the margin, well below 1.27% of gross national product. the council has reduced the flat-rate payments by 10% this year. this is all the more incomprehensible because we are lagging behind in many areas in the implementation of programmes. parliament is now putting these amounts back into use. we cannot, on the one hand, create expectations in areas such as the structural funds or external aid and then follow them up with long delays. this undermines trust in the eu institutions. the council bears its share of the responsibility if it gets away with it. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. while foreign ministers and heads of government make big speeches on the common foreign policy, finance ministers are cutting the money in small increments, without bothering about the loss of prestige of the eu institutions. it is not clear why we should not have full access to the flexible reserve instrument for this sector this year. we still have major problems in the balkans, new tasks in afghanistan and the neighbouring countries, new tasks in the middle east. the eu is losing its ability to react flexibly, and we need a response from the council on this too. it must explain how the eu can continue to be politically active and flexible. we are more critical as a group of the procedure on the a30 roads. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the matter by the end of the year. but this has prevented our committee from being able to exercise a fine-tuning function in this area, and we are therefore not doing our job of monitoring it sufficiently. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the budget is properly implemented. i hope that we can work together to develop a sensible procedure which will also enable parliament to fulfil its role of monitoring the a30 lines. we cannot afford to be accused of being a client-economy. we really shouldn't do this in the household. no, i think there's a certain self-criticism that needs to be done. i am well aware that the time pressure is very high, but we must nevertheless be able to give political answers to every single item in this area in particular. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will only be able to make credible demands for reforms from the council and the commission if we are also credible in our reform efforts. the decisions taken by the bureau last night did not, in my view, take sufficient account of this.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has also taken many initiatives in this area. we want to put pressure on the council, which is urgently needed - as the previous speakers have already pointed out - but also on the commission, because many points have not yet been taken into account. i should like to continue on to the subject which mr ilgenfritz left out, namely the border regions. it is not that we have cut anything, but we are waiting for the commission to come forward with something more, madam commissioner, in addition to a poor communication on the border regions, because the commission already has a monopoly on initiative. they were quite capable of proposing legal bases very quickly on other matters. you're practicing modesty in the border regions. it is not enough to say that you are watching with great interest what parliament is doing. the commission is called upon to present an initiative. this is your honourable task, and you cannot shirk your responsibility. i therefore hope that we will be able to vote in parliament on thursday to allocate eur 10.8 million to the prince programme reserve. i think that will encourage the commission to come forward with a proposal on the border regions. the same applies to the question of the new 317 posts requested by the commission. i think it is time we synchronised the budgetary procedure with the commission's legislative procedure. it is not possible that we should be discussing the annual reports on the draft legislation in the near future when the budget has already been adopted in principle. the aim here too is to ensure that these two activities are properly synchronised. it is therefore right that these posts, or the means to do so, should remain in reserve. the same applies, mr president-in-office of the council, to the common foreign and security policy. i am moved to tears when i hear you say that we are saving money in an important area. i would like to ask you to take note of our interest in dealing with these matters in the community budget. that's where they belong, for the most part. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is not possible for the council to take this line and to develop activities independently of the commission and parliament. there are papers in the council. you can be sure that parliament will not allow this to pass. the same applies to europol and eurojust. i don't want to go into it. i should like to thank the rapporteurs, in particular carlos costa neves and of course mrs buitenweg, for their excellent cooperation. we have made some progress on the parliamentary budget in terms of truth and clarity. it makes little sense to put money into the reserve for a statute which is then spent on buildings. it is therefore more appropriate to put it directly in the budget line for buildings where it is used at the end of the year anyway. but we will have to ensure - and this is a lesson from this year's budgetary procedure - that we receive all the proposals for our parliament's budget from the bureau as early as may. we cannot accept the procedure as it has been this year, namely that many important decisions were taken only in september, just before the budget committee's deliberations. i am still very concerned about the health of our staff in the various institutions. we had requested a report on the state of health for this year. it is indeed very dangerous to work in certain institutions because there is a very high rate of sickness there. we will have to take this up in order to take measures to improve the health situation of our staff in the various institutions. finally, i would like to ask - and terry wynn has already said it very forcefully - that we now make progress in november on cooperation so that we can adopt a regular budget for 2002 in december.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. i should also like to begin by thanking the three rapporteurs, mrs buitenweg, mr costa neves and mr seppänen, for their work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank you very much on behalf of my whole group. i am glad that the president-in-office of the council is still here, because i think that the budgetary procedure must give us the opportunity every year to point out that this budgetary procedure is not a complete budgetary procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i've indicated that i'll say this again and again. i shall behave like cato the elder to the romans, who wanted to see carthage destroyed - although i shall not go that far. i only want to see an undemocratic process destroyed and i will remind you of that again and again. the budgetary procedure is not complete in the agricultural budget either until we are fully in the boat and have full responsibility for the revenue and expenditure side. i know that you do not oppose this very much, but we must of course develop it further in the discussion, in the debate. only then can the citizens of the european union vote on whether we have done well or not. (applause from the centre) the council and the commission will of course continue to be involved in this procedure. we'll honor that very much. but i think parliament as an elected body is the first point of contact. we will continue to point out that further developments are needed here. we are working within a very narrow budgetary framework. this narrow framework is dictated by the financial perspective we are adhering to. we are adhering to them, even though we realise that we are facing additional challenges that were not yet apparent at the time the financial perspective was adopted. we must be prepared to do so and make the necessary adjustments within our budgetary framework. it is certainly possible at the moment, because we see from the returns at the end of each year that there is still enough air. either the implementation is not being done properly - this is a mistake that must be corrected - or the rates were actually a little too high. there's still a chance of letting air out. but i say to you very clearly, mr president-in-office of the council and commissioner, we shall have to discuss further developments in the foreseeable future, at the latest when this financial perspective expires. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. because by then, we'll have let all the air out. then we'll be at the base. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we'll be prepared to argue with you vigorously as we develop our case. we will give the commission the support it needs to modernise its administrative procedures and we will be available to recruit the necessary staff. but we will also be making very substantial demands in return. we will be demanding very strongly that the implementation of our programmes, as we put it in the budget, actually take place during the year. we will not continue to see the backlog of payments accumulating. there's been progress. i want to admit this right now; i do not want to say that we are still at the point where we were two or three years ago. despite these advances, there is still a massive amount of work to be done. we will support them, as i said, but we will also demand! we shall also maintain the established practice in the area of the individual budget lines and the individual categories. the people who rely on us to provide the necessary assistance will continue to rely on us in the future. this is a matter of concern to the commission, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer. but these people also need to know that there is a change in this european union. we, as a parliament, will be shaping them. we're going to be looking at category i very closely in the future and introducing modern things. we will innovate. if we cannot see any progress in these areas, which are not in category i but in category vii, but which also concern agriculture, if we do not implement sapard, then we say: please take the innovative measures that have been successful in leader and transfer them so that help can be given in the short term, so that help can be given quickly. we will do this and we will also ensure that, while farmers are safe, consumers can also be confident that the result is good for them and not harmful to their health in terms of food safety. we shall vote in favour of the first reading of the appropriations in the reserve which so far have seemed necessary to deal properly with mcs and bse. we know that in recent days there have been developments in sheep, among other things. i do not know whether there will not be further developments in this area. we will proceed accordingly until we have the letter of amendment and the full picture. we will ensure that the two major challenges are met in the area of category ii. the restructuring of the fishing fleet in spain and portugal is crucial and important. here, people have relied on the fact that they can make a living under certain conditions. that will no longer be possible because the morocco agreement has not been concluded. i would say at this point to both the commission and the council that we did not think it serious that these 125 million were still earmarked, although it was clear at the beginning of the year that this money could not be used. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen are not caught by the fishermen themselves. we will ensure that the procedure is conducted accordingly. this applies also to the border regions, which are not always rich regions that can help themselves. i am thinking of bavaria, for example. these regions are a little bit better off. there are other regions that really need much more help, and we will be looking at that. in the category iii area, we will also develop things that are future-oriented. we know that developments are necessary, particularly in the context of the developments after 9/11. europol and eurojust need to be developed further. we must overcome national sensitivities. if you want to fight terrorism, you have to take away everything that makes it easy for it to play. you can't go around pushing old rights. we need to develop this. what we want is to continue what was started last year, namely the social integration of people by giving them the opportunity to enter the labour market. we cannot forget this after a year of this being a priority in mrs haug's report on the budget, now that new problems are emerging. people have a right to social inclusion, also through adaptation to modern information and communication technologies. this is true not only of highly developed, well-trained people but also of people who perform very simple jobs. i thank you very much for your attention. i would like to thank the rapporteurs again and hope that we can bring the procedure to a successful conclusion in cooperation with the other two institutions. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. at first glance, the 2002 eu budget of €51 billion seems to be balanced and straightforward. the increase of 5% compared with expenditure in 2001 is in line with the berlin agricultural guidelines. this is not only good, but it must be so, because no other policy is as fully communal as the agricultural policy. i am particularly concerned, however, that this large chunk of agricultural spending is becoming increasingly desirable and is seen by many politicians as a kind of disposal which can be postponed at will. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in cereals, which is the subject of a proposal from the commission, is a very good one. the situation in the animal sector is very unbalanced, particularly in the areas of food safety, animal welfare and the internal market, following the emergence of mcs eleven months ago. distortions of competition in sales markets lead to job and income losses. all the price lines are falling apart and no one can explain it. i therefore support the idea of temporarily increasing the financial resources of the livestock market. i am in favour of not postponing the so-called interim balance of agenda 2000 just to do a favour to one country here. i am also in favour of keeping the reserve until the contradiction is cleared up as to why it was 1 billion a year ago and now only 400 million.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. this is a budgetary procedure with some old problems and new challenges which we cannot really assess and deal with in the first reading. i would like to make a specific point here, because even in this house there are sometimes some vague ideas about this: since 1992 there has been a fundamental change in the system of the common agricultural policy. commissioner, you announced a letter of amendment. i am reminded of the saying 'the same procedure as every year', because first we have a budgetary crisis and then we find room for manoeuvre in the agricultural budget. i would also like to say that we are in favour of a reserve for contingencies, but if the crisis comes, we must really use this reserve, because it is the case that many sectors are currently in a real existential crisis. i would like to take up the debate on eastern enlargement to make one thing clear again: i have no problem at all with the full integration of the agricultural economy of the applicant countries into the common market by 2004, if at the same time the free movement of persons, capital, services and goods which is part of full membership is also achieved, so that there is at last a fair debate on this subject in its entirety! the nice conclusions stressed the need to start restructuring the spanish and portuguese fishing fleets. i support this, but at the same time i would point out that it is not possible, on the other hand, to allow the rest of the european fishing fleet to starve in the next two years, so to speak, with a very restrictive approach. we must discuss this with the commission. i would like to point out that the commission's communication of 25 july on border regions does not meet the requirements laid down by the european council, as parliament, which expressed this in its resolution of 5 september, considers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to make one further point. we have allocated 400 posts for the 2001 budget. now we're discussing 317 that are still in the reserve. commissioner, please also look at the vacancies that have not yet been filled in the commission. i would like to emphasize that, in addition to the other points we have raised in connection with the release of the reserve, we have repeatedly stressed over the past year that the reform also involves simplifying the acquis communautaire without touching on the substance of the community acquis. i think there is more to be done here. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the community's financial interests in the event of a serious breach of the treaty on european union is a good one.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the epp-ed group in the committee on legal affairs and internal market has paid great attention to the convergence of markets in the context of the enlargement to the east. the effects of this convergence will also have to be taken into account in budgetary planning. if we look at the four freedoms, we see that in some areas there will be no problems at all, but in others there will be adjustment difficulties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. however, we shall have problems in converging on the free movement of workers and the freedom to provide services, because there is no competition in these areas to date and these markets are - if they so wish - only regional in orientation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. this is why specific aid is needed. the committee on legal affairs and the internal market has explicitly recommended that the border regions programme you mentioned, madam commissioner, should be given additional funds. we are grateful to the committee on budgets and in particular to the rapporteur for having taken these suggestions on board and for having supplemented them in some cases. i am particularly concerned about the fact that the instruments proposed by the commission are not sufficient to strengthen the competitiveness of the border regions, because they only promote cooperation between east and west, but not the specific situation of the border regions themselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we are dealing with tobacco subsidies every year as part of the public health service. these are, in fact, nothing more than direct income aids to the people concerned. there's another way. we therefore call, as we do every year, for a gradual reduction in tobacco subsidies in favour of an increase in rural development aid with a view to income alternatives, which could then also benefit upstream and downstream workers in the regions. every year it's the same, and yet nothing has changed. but you can't give up hope. to ngos: we are always advocating for the support of ngos. but we also want to know what is being done with the funds allocated. this is a reasonable and reasonable request. we therefore call for such information to be made publicly available on a regular basis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the budget. but the commission's decision to withdraw funding from the environmental organisation globe is also not transparent. this is not in any way comprehensible and therefore seems to be completely arbitrary. in addition, globe has not been paid the appropriations allocated to it during the current financial year. but ngos also need planning certainty, so that they can continue to pay clerical staff, for example. what the commission is doing here is anti-social. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the agencies: it seems that some agencies have already developed a lively life of their own. they do exist. so they're funded. output or not, more money every year. that alone seems to matter. it cannot continue like this, because of course this money is missing elsewhere. our job is to make sure that those we promote work effectively. efficiency and effectiveness are not achieved by blindly increasing resources, but by regular observation and control as a basis for any necessary corrections.
- mr president, madam commissioner, and mr president of the council! i have the honour to speak on behalf of the epp group in the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism. i should like to begin by thanking my colleagues in the committee on budgets for the fact that almost all the amendments from that committee have been adopted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask the council not to be ambivalent and to be double-tongued. it is not acceptable that we should be shouting at the gothenburg summit that we want a sustainable transport policy, and then the council is cutting funding for sustainable mobility. this is not acceptable ambiguity, and we hope that the council will accept this. if we want to have a sensible, environmentally friendly european transport policy, we cannot abolish the funds for this purpose. but my main point is the question of tourism. we have to be very careful not to let the commission and the council get involved in this. i just want to ask you to reconsider. we have proposed that funds be allocated to promote tourism in europe. first of all, you all know the debate that has been going on for years about the philoxenia programme, namely the promotion of tourism abroad under the slogan 'tourists to europe'. this issue has taken on a whole new dimension since 9/11. it is not just the airlines that have 20 to 30% fewer passengers, but also the hotels in brussels, berlin and all the cities of europe. it's the restaurants, the shops, the souvenirs, the fashion. we have a massive drop in tourism, especially from the united states and canada. this situation is causing great difficulties in the economy, putting our jobs at risk. i ask the council and the commission: when we discuss the consequences of 11 september next month, let us take up again the question of what we are doing to promote tourism to europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i shall pass on your reply to the chairman of the committee on budgets. he asked me to wait. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. he brought all the budget consulting to us. we didn't always have that. so, without wanting to exaggerate myself, i would like to say a very warm thank you for not only showing us so much respect, but also for showing that you are interested in working with us. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make two points. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the chernobyl disaster has shown us that the use of nuclear energy carries an unmanageable risk. no national budget can cope with such a disaster. that's why, at the moment, we're only discussing the urgent need to secure the sarcophagus. this is only a fraction of the money needed to deal with the overall disaster. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to combat it. that means that the problems will remain unsolved for generations. and by the way, no household in western countries - even rich western countries - could cope with such a disaster without international support. that is why we greens and regionalists support this report without reservation. we do not believe that this will be the last contribution to overcoming the chernobyl consequences that will financially burden east and west for generations. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on it. the question arises whether the nuclear industry itself should not be required to contribute to a fund to help deal with the disaster, since it is still profiting from east european nuclear energy. secondly, the solution for implementation does not seem to us to be the european development bank, because it does not guarantee parliamentary control and it does not advocate cost-effective solutions, because ukrainian firms are not taken into account in the use of funds. we therefore call on the commission to use all sources of information, not just the development bank, to provide parliament with full and timely information.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you very much, mrs hautala, for the great work we have done together here. the proposal had become necessary after the european court of justice had been called upon in over 40 cases. the most prominent cases which have occupied us very much here in the european parliament - i repeat again - were kalanke and marshall. they have not only had a major impact in germany, but have also led to some legal uncertainty throughout the union. the amsterdam treaty, with its article 13 on non-discrimination and articles 141 and 3, has given us a clear legal basis, so that the directive can now be amended to improve the situation of women. we have found our extensive amendments in the common position on many points in the first reading. this is the first success of our work. direct/indirect discrimination, sexual harassment at work, positive action - all of these are now covered by the common position. but we're going to take it a step further. we want to protect not only the mothers but also the fathers, who were initially opposed in this house. but that's the rule, too. i think the point now is to find even clearer wording. we have found a broad base in parliament for 15 compromise proposals in long working sessions. i would therefore recommend to my group that we stick to this compromise. we continue to aim at rapidly improving the situation of women and men who feel a duty to the family and who are committed to reconciling work and family life. we want to create a clear legal framework. that is why we want to launch a conciliation procedure quickly if necessary. we hope that the compromise now being proposed here in parliament will be carried forward and will quickly lead to this willingness to agree in the commission and in the council, for the benefit of women.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. equal treatment for men and women in access to employment, vocational training and promotion is our declared objective. the only question is how to get there and, ultimately, how effective individual measures are, or whether they are simply a burden, an extra effort and bureaucracy, which is the last thing we need. the council has not incorporated all the parliament's demands in its common position. we can see that the text of the original proposal has been improved. the commission has therefore taken an important step towards updating community legislation. however, some questions and problems remain. the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities has examined all the open questions and in consultation between the groups it has been decided not to re-examine all the remaining demands, but the most important ones. the rapporteur, mrs hautala, has made a great effort to find workable compromises. the result is before us. that paternity protection cannot be maternal protection was already discussed at the first reading. the compromise now leaves the member states free to recognise their own right to paternity leave. both mothers and fathers must be able to devote themselves to family responsibilities. this is quite the opposite of the view expressed here, which is the declared aim of the epp/ed group. the wording used to indicate that women can return to their own work or to an equivalent job after maternity leave must also be taken into account. we have problems, however, with the definition of sexual harassment. we have found a rather vague formulation here, because i think that is not the way any judge or anyone who is supposed to decide this can handle it. i would like to make a brief comment on the need for employers to report annually on the progress of equality. it's just red tape, it doesn't help equal treatment. we must also think of small and mediumsized enterprises so that in future they will be able to accept women who are looking for work in society. (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. the commission is not i am proposing today that the commission give a discharge for the sixth, seventh and eighth development funds for the 1999 financial year. unfortunately, we had to postpone this discharge in the spring because, as rapporteur, i received insufficient information from the commission. the commission has already provided this information and i would like to thank the commission for its cooperation. i can recommend today, without reservation or reservation, the discharge. i hope and expect that the good cooperation we have had with the commission since spring will continue in future reporting within the development fund, because good cooperation is needed to solve the problems in this area together. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a full answer. it is 1999 and 1999 was the first financial year for which the new commission was fully responsible. but full responsibility does not mean that the commission can be blamed for past mistakes. we all know that reforms take time, and we see that the necessary steps have been taken. i would like to repeat the criticism briefly. the question of implementation is raised. for example, the gap between commitments and payments in 1999 was eur 2.69 billion compared to eur 1.27 billion. unfortunately, the same applies to the implementation of the debt relief initiative for the world's poorest countries. i am aware, of course, that this is also an expression of a general crisis in development aid, that this is not just about the development fund and not just about the work of the commission, but that all the member states and the commission and parliament must jointly think about new approaches to development policy. the problem is a lack of political will to give generous aid and at the same time a lack of instruments to implement the funds effectively. that's the problem in a nutshell. i do not want to get into details now, given the time that has elapsed, but i would like to stress that the commission's approaches to tackling this problem are in the right direction. strengthening the local delegations, better equipping and preparing them, in short, more local competence. i would also like to appeal to parliament in this connection. we have had long discussions in the committee on budgets about the need for more staff, especially for the delegations, and the committee on budgetary control in particular has also put pressure on the committee on budgets to make these posts available and not to play a false political game here, a game which goes in the direction that the commission must first deliver reform results and only then can we approve staff. this is absurd, of course, because first of all these staff are needed in the local delegations for the reforms to take effect. the other reform efforts, as reflected in the commission's internal audit report, are also important and need to be discussed in detail between the commission and parliament. i would like to make a few brief comments on the court of auditors' report, which i hope will be reflected in the future in the discharge and cooperation between parliament and the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need to monitor progress in the key sectors of health and education with meaningful indicators, such as increasing the number of teachers or doctors, so more quality control rather than quantitative control. this would also mean that the discharge process in parliament itself would have to change. this means that we should also be doing more research in the direction of quality control and not scandalising details; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (hereinafter 'the agency') and that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the application of this regulation. if we take these measures together, i believe we will take an important step towards better planning of development aid and thus also increase the persuasiveness and willingness of the taxpayers of the european union to provide the necessary funds. because the current crisis since 9/11 shows how important development aid is. it will be a very central factor. on the other hand, the eu is now the world's largest donor of development aid. that is why we urgently need this joint reform!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in her report on the discharge for the european development fund, mrs rühle paints a stark picture of the contradictions in our development policy. on the one hand, there is a complaint about the lack of willingness to make generous aid available, and on the other hand we have to note that the funds available are sometimes very hesitant to be used up. there can be nothing wrong with the system if at the end of 1999 an amount of almost 10 billion euros was available and promised without a time limit, but has not been used. of course, the commission will tell us that in the meantime there may be signs of improvement here and there. however, the finding remains that we need to fundamentally rethink our approach. our aid under the development funds is limited because it is directed towards supporting countries which exist only on paper. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in civil war situations, we must first focus on conflict resolution and humanitarian aid. in other cases, we should concentrate our efforts more than before on building functioning public administrations. the eu has a long history of providing aid to developing countries, but it is not enough to provide the necessary resources. they are also the prerequisite for the countries to manage their own tax revenues responsibly and in the interests of the citizens. so our aid must always be linked to a programme of reform for public administration. if these reforms are progressing, if there is support, if they are not progressing or if there are setbacks, then we must not be afraid to turn on the money tap. i know that the latter is the more difficult part of the task, but it is precisely in such cases that the commission must show its firmness and its loyalty to principle. finally, a word on this discharge procedure: the discharge had to be postponed because the commission had not initially provided the necessary information. in addition, the problem was again that certain confidential information was only passed to the committee chair and rapporteur. this creates - i have said it many times, i will say it again - two classes of members: those with access to information and those without. the committee has made it clear in its report that this situation must not happen again and that the discharge procedure must in future fully respect the provisions of our rules of procedure. that means all members of this high house have access to all confidential information.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a great pity that mr barnier is not here himself, because the question of the nuts classification is not a simple technical or statistical question, but one of the most important political questions of future cohesion policy. the question is who will receive european funding in the future, how much it will receive and who will decide how it is used. these are central questions for the future of the european union and cohesion policy, and that is why this subject, which is being discussed here at midnight today, is of greater importance than has hitherto been apparent. the commission has always used only statistical criteria for the demarcation of the territory and has not taken these political questions into account. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the structural funds, which will be submitted to the council in the autumn. when i look at this for the candidate countries, i see that objective 1 regions are being extended to high-income regions and centres such as warsaw and riga, and that these areas can receive as much funding as the poorest regions of the enlarged european union, latgale and masuria. this can't be right. this is a serious problem, and i think it is absurd. the question therefore arises: must the same body which grants the grant to the authority also be the control body? the bottom-up approach is not, in my view, taken into account in the present proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i consider the proposal for a regulation on the creation of a common classification of territorial units for statistics (nuts) to be sensible and understandable from a statistical and also from a regulatory point of view. however, it must be ensured that the change of classification also requires the prior agreement of the member states. it must also be ensured that the definition of labour market regions in the context of the community task can continue to be made by way of derogation from nuts level iii. the two-year period between the adoption and entry into force of a nuts change should be considerably shortened or even eliminated, as the regional breakdown may depend on the financial allocations from the commission to the member states. i am very pleased with the commission's proposal and would be happier without the rapporteur's amendments, which were adopted by a majority in the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism. i said majority, but it was rather unanimously adopted with an abstention, and that abstention is mine. i voted against a number of amendments in committee. the report repeatedly mentions the inclusion of additional criteria for the delimitation of areas as an objective. i think that is problematic. the inclusion of economic, geographical and social criteria in non-administrative units will lead to a blurring of these understandable criteria. in my view, the decisive criterion for delimitation must be the number of people living in a region, who are ultimately also affected by decisions resulting from the nuts classification. if the rapporteur, in a recital, says that there should be at least three levels of classification, then the introduction of this word 'at least' implies that further levels should be created for the classification of territorial units. however, it should be borne in mind that the introduction of new statistics will involve a considerable additional administrative burden for the areas concerned. i think that this should be limited.
the council. - madam president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, as is a good tradition, i have come here today, a few days after the european council meeting in ghent, to report on the discussions we had there. and rest assured i'll be concise and businesslike. the european council in ghent was in fact the second under the belgian presidency and, like the previous meeting in brussels on 21 september, it was strongly influenced by the aftermath of the attacks in new york and washington. of course, how could it be otherwise? the events of 11 september will forever be etched in our memory, and the international community and the international alliance against terrorism have now taken action. as you know, the ghent summit was originally conceived as an informal exchange of views on the enlargement of the union and, in particular, on the laeken declaration, which is to structure and launch the debate on the future of europe later in the year. and it was also our initial intention to make a final evaluation of the introduction of the euro. i did indeed think that the council should, as a kind of good steward, check whether all the preparations had finally been made for a successful introduction of the european single currency. but as often happens - at least i have heard it from those who have much more experience as president of the council - the current situation has thrown that agenda into a bit of a tailspin, and i would say that rightly so. the events of september 11 have an unprecedented immense significance, and i think it becomes clearer every day that the world after september 11 will never be the same again. a new world order is emerging, a new multipolar world in which the european union will have to play a more prominent role. i had the opportunity yesterday to give a first view of this in poland at the beginning of the academic year of the college of europe. but of course, the big considerations are one thing, but to make the union act as a whole in this crisis is quite another matter. a month ago, on 21 september, the union succeeded in adopting a clear, unambiguous and common position. and we also approved a far-reaching and detailed action plan against terrorism. the final declaration of the council of ministers last friday in ghent shows that we have been able to maintain this united approach without any shortcomings. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. we unequivocally support the military action which began on 7 october. they are legitimized by un security council resolution 1368, and we attach the utmost importance to saving the civilian population. we also want to see a normal government in afghanistan after the conflict, a stable government, a representative government that respects human rights. such a government will be able to count on full european help in rebuilding the country. in the meantime, we will work with the union to increase our efforts in humanitarian aid to the many millions of afghan refugees. our commitment is that no country in the region should be made the victim of this conflict by the influx of displaced persons. the council also gave the presidency a mandate to visit the region in order to obtain political support for the replacement of the taliban regime. the second element i would like to stress is the rapid and full implementation of the action plan against terrorism. i would like to say that the introduction of a european arrest warrant is a breakthrough. the abolition of double criminalization was now accepted by everyone in the council, not only for terrorist acts but also for all other serious crimes. the list of terrorist organisations was decided to be finalized and adopted at least by the end of the year. we also discussed in the council the proposals put forward by our american partners and it was agreed in the council to strengthen our action plan if necessary. the commission and the council were also instructed to draw up a programme of cooperation between member states to combat terrorism involving biological and chemical weapons. the programme will include the appointment of a european civil protection coordinator. thirdly, there is the more active role of the union in preventing and combating sources of conflict. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the council clearly conveyed the message on friday that peace is only possible on the basis of two states. we have also warned the council once again not to allow an amalgamation between terrorism and the islamic world. on the contrary, dialogue between europe and the arab and islamic world must be intensified. i would like to say, madam president, that the clear decisions taken last friday also immediately put into perspective the 'incident' surrounding the previous meeting between the french president, the british prime minister and the german chancellor. the impression of a directory in the making, an impression which might not have been there had that meeting been held in another place or at another time, was reduced to its true proportions after the three confirmed to me that it was a consultation on purely technical-military matters. i accepted that explanation, also to prevent this issue from dominating the european council in ghent, and i reiterated in the council that it is the fifteen who jointly decide positions in the european union. (applause from the left)
president of the commission. - madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to say that the commission has welcomed with great satisfaction the good news that the irish republican army has begun to surrender its arms in accordance with the good friday agreement. the commission will be following closely the consolidation of the reconciliation process in northern ireland, also through our peace programme. (applause) i would like to thank following the attacks of 11 september 2001 on the united states of america, our historic allies, the european union has publicly committed itself to cooperating fully with the efforts being made to bring to justice the perpetrators, organisers and instigators of these acts, and to hold to account those who have sheltered, supported and hosted them. we have thus assured the government and the people of the united states of our full solidarity. in the days that followed, i was very pleased to see these declarations of solidarity translate into rapid and concerted action at european level. chris patten, belgian foreign minister louis michel and javier solana went first to washington and then to pakistan, iran, saudi arabia, egypt and syria to participate in the building of a global coalition against terrorism. the european authorities have rapidly started to strengthen cooperation between police and intelligence services, both within the union and with third countries, in particular the united states. on the basis of emergency legislation agreed at community level, we have frozen assets belonging to suspected terrorists worth more than 100 million euros. we have developed uniform standards applicable throughout the union to make air travel safer. the commission also put forward proposals for a common definition of terrorism, a system of penalties applicable throughout the european union for related offences and a european arrest warrant. these proposals were strongly supported by the european council at its extraordinary meeting on 21 september. on that occasion, the council called on the countries of the european union to contribute, each according to its own means, to the new global campaign against terrorism. so it was: some countries have mobilized or offered their armed forces, while others have provided information or made their air bases available. despite the importance and success of this joint action, it is a fact that media attention has focused mainly on the initiatives taken by individual countries. this has somewhat clouded and polluted the debate on the actual role of europe as a whole in the international arena. that is what i would like to focus on today. since the beginning of my commission's mandate, one of the commission's own objectives has been to strengthen europe's presence in the world. the new world situation has made this objective even more urgent. to be a leading actor on the world stage, the european union must speak with one voice - a clear and strong one - and must follow its words with united action. the union has taken steps in this direction, there is no denying that. it is enough to compare, for example, the variety of attitudes adopted by member states at the time of the gulf war ten years ago with our recent position on the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the coherence of our current response to terrorism. i take this opportunity to highlight the excellent work done in this respect by the belgian presidency, which has always been careful to support the shared and common objectives of the european union with courage and intelligence. however, we are still far from having the effective common foreign and security policy we so badly need. i am therefore pleased that in the european union declaration of 14 september we publicly committed ourselves to developing our common foreign and security policy and to ensuring that the union can really make itself heard and can really speak with one voice. a common policy is not, of course, a single policy, uniformly adopted by each individual member state, as each has specific roles. a common policy is a policy which multiplies the strength of individual countries around shared objectives and with shared instruments. has there been an 'absence of europe' on this point, as some claim? my answer is no, although we have to distinguish. wherever integration is possible and real, europe is responding with specific initiatives and appropriate responses. this is not surprising, since the community method has been ensuring for 50 years that the union is able to act effectively, quickly and visibly in all areas where it is possible. it is in the less integrated areas, where the community method is almost absent or absent, that the real problem of the effectiveness of the european union's action arises. this fact should serve as an incentive to prepare with even greater determination for the next major political events in the union. a common policy ensures the coordination of the various national policies in a community context, according to the community method, in order to serve the general interests of the union. and in the field of the common foreign and security policy we have not yet reached that point, because the necessary consensus has not yet been reached: we are, as they say, in a transition phase. but this is the objective which must be pursued by building up a policy from the outset, drawing inspiration from the experience gained in the community and making the best use of the instruments at our disposal. firstly, the unity of action. that is why i believe that the separate action of a few is not in the common interest or in the interest of individual countries, whether small or large. i noted at ghent that no member state wants to go in this direction, but the commission has an obligation to remain vigilant, for the sake of all. secondly, the concrete institutional mechanisms for decision-making. this is the kind of common foreign and security policy we must develop, and we must develop it quickly, taking into account the positive things that have already been achieved, if we are to have a real impact on the world emerging from the tragedy of 9/11. i am pleased to note that the committee on constitutional affairs of the european parliament has discussed at length and with great attention the implications of the common foreign and security policy for the functioning of the institutions and in particular of the council. i welcome the proposals in the poos report and i congratulate mr poos on the results achieved in dealing with such complex and sensitive issues. i hope that this house will approve them in full today and that the council will commit itself to making them operational as soon as possible. the commission is ready to cooperate fully in this direction. the declarations of 14 september have important implications for the union's foreign policy priorities. in the short and medium term we must pay even greater attention to our dialogue with the arab and islamic worlds; to the middle east peace process, which is at the heart of the tragedies we are experiencing; to the full exploitation - and this is our task - of all the potential that the barcelona process has to offer us. the time has come to open a new phase in mediterranean policy. the results achieved so far - though not always, and often not because of us - have not been satisfactory. now we must make the most of every opportunity at our disposal to make a qualitative leap. the euro-mediterranean area must have concrete prospects for economic integration and the establishment of institutional mechanisms for joint decision-making. we are all expecting a revival of our role in the middle east. we must act concretely and jointly to meet this difficult challenge, which is within our reach today. in broadening our horizons, we must review our policies on trade and cooperation with pakistan, india and iran, as well as with saudi arabia and the gulf countries. we have already made some concrete progress with pakistan in the past few days. i also believe that we should be prepared to respond to renewed signs of interest and concrete action towards common objectives - such as the fight against diseases such as aids - from countries such as libya. this is a completely new development. once again, europe is in the best position to respond to these political signals and to help these countries join our coalition. at the same time, we must work vigorously to build a coherent and active policy with all our neighbours: a partnership with objectives, institutions and means, in particular in our relations with russia and ukraine; the european union is committed to a partnership that will ensure lasting stability on our continent. in this time of change, it is also time to give force to these policies. finally, at the global level, we need to rebuild trust, and one of the main ways to do so in the immediate future is to succeed in launching a new round of global trade negotiations. at the same time, we must act more vigorously to offer the world's poorest regions a real chance for sustainable development. i've said it before and i'll say it again: we need to govern globalization, make it work for everyone, rich and poor alike. we europeans should be proud of the policies pursued in preparation for the enlargement of the union, the only policies of democratic globalisation so far experienced in the world: i repeat, the only democratic globalisation. so we need to address with energy, with courage, with imagination the global problems that fuel resentment and discontent: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat poverty, the widening income gaps, and the increasingly intolerable economic and social imbalances. these are the seeds of frustration and tension towards the west. the counter-terrorism coalition must go hand in hand with a development coalition, in which the union's example can play a leading role. ladies and gentlemen, the special council meeting on 21 september asked the commission to analyse the economic impact of terrorist attacks. we did so immediately and, as prime minister verhofstadt said, the commission submitted a report to the european council in ghent. the european economy was already clearly slowing down, even before 9/11. the immediate consequence of the terrorist attacks was a further loss of consumer confidence and a widespread feeling of uncertainty. there are, however, a number of positive factors which we must bear in mind, factors which enable us to cope with the present shock much more calmly than has been the case in similar circumstances in the past. first, the fundamental aspects of our economy. the european economy - unlike the us - is free of trade imbalances, and europeans still have a strong positive propensity to save. moreover, unlike in previous crises, the union has been largely protected from possible waves of currency devaluations and counter-valuations by the existence of a solid, reliable single currency, the euro. imagine the scenario today without the euro! the events of the past few weeks should make us even more proud of the leap forward that the euro has made possible. secondly, we have a program. we are embarking on structural reforms on the basis of a strategy carefully worked out in lisbon. these reforms are not complete, but the current crisis should strengthen our political determination to complete them. i therefore call on this house and the council to break the deadlock and to speed up the adoption of all the decisions taken in lisbon and after lisbon to make the european economy more efficient. only if we achieve the objectives and targets already set will we be able to minimise the spread and duration of unemployment and maximise the medium- and long-term growth potential. third, we have tools. we have achieved considerable fiscal discipline, which still gives us a certain amount of room for manoeuvre during this period of slowdown. however, the problem of economic policy coordination is now very serious, and it is because of the persistent difficulty of applying the community method to this area as well. i have therefore sent the european council two messages: first, on the basis of the information currently available, our economy is showing real resilience: i do not say optimistic, but serene. secondly, however, we must continue to monitor closely economic developments, not only in the union and the euro area but also globally. if the situation changes, we must be ready to intervene with the tools we have. i would like to stress once again the importance of coordinating our efforts. given the current integration, all actions need to be coordinated at euro area and eu level. in the present uncertain situation, we must show that we are acting in a coordinated way and that we are willing to use all the instruments at our disposal. madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come for the utmost unity, the utmost determination, the utmost firmness. let us make sure that the horror of 9/11 can generate lasting hope. the reaction of our peoples to recent events has shown that the european union must be more present, not less. for europe to live up to its pledges of solidarity - solidarity with the united states but also protection of global solidarity - there must be a genuine community of action among the member states of the european union. the commission will continue to work with all its energies in this direction. (applause from the left)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. our group supports the ghent declaration on terrorism. but we also say, mr president-in-office, that now words must be followed by deeds. it is not appropriate for the heads of state or government to make recommendations for the second time which are not then quickly implemented by the ministers of justice and the ministers of the interior. we are now calling on the ministers of justice and the minister of the interior to act swiftly. we also say, above all, that this is no longer the case with merely intergovernmental cooperation! the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the commission must be at the centre of the monitoring and implementation of community law. the council presidencies change every six months, and that does not create continuity. the european commission and the european institutions must ensure continuity. i also ask you, as prime minister of belgium, mr prime minister of the kingdom of belgium, to ensure that the question of the security of the european institutions, including the european parliament in brussels, is finally resolved satisfactorily, both in terms of procedure and content. (applause from the centre) we must make europe's voice more visible. it was certainly right that certain personalities from the european union visited the american president. but i do not think it is acceptable any more. we must draw the conclusions for the future from this. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we need a european face to represent us in the world! (applause from the centre) we have now the coalition against terrorism, which our group supports 100%. but we also need a coalition to rebuild afghanistan now. you have made your point, which i welcome, mr president-in-office. afghanistan has suffered for 20 years! we must make a joint effort, also at international level, to give afghanistan a good future. you and the president of the commission were right to speak of the middle east. our group rejects the deliberate killing of people - whether in palestine or israel. we call on the parties to finally give a signal of peace. we demand that there be cooperation, that there be a palestinian state and that israel can live in recognized and secure borders. we call on all parties to take a step towards pursuing a policy of cooperation, peace and understanding rather than an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. (applause from the centre) we see the mediterranean dialogue as an important challenge. that is why we have proposed that the euro-mediterranean meeting be held in brussels on 8 november. i thank the president for the speed with which she has implemented our joint decision at the conference of group chairmen. we hope that this will send a signal for cooperation with the arab and islamic worlds. mr president-in-office, to laeken: on the whole we agree with you. but please make sure that the convention is not just about writing options. the convention's task is to submit a majority proposal. then, of course, there can be a minority vote on this proposal. but this cannot be a negotiation without any binding commitments. this is not what we expect at the convention, but we expect a proposal which will then be discussed by the heads of state or government. we also expect that we will have a not too large bureau at this convention. it is crucial that five persons are represented: the chairman and representatives of the four institutions involved. this body must be a real governing body that will lead this convention into a good future. we want a timetable for the work of the convention so that a treaty can be concluded in 2003 under the italian presidency, which will hopefully lead to the basic treaty you have mentioned. let me make a very practical remark: you dealt with the issue of bank transfers between the countries of the european union in ghent. a question that people think isn't that important. but our parliament has put forward a proposal through mrs peijs' report. we have made it clear that it is not acceptable for these high costs to be incurred in the case of transfers. i think it is right that the heads of state and government have also embraced this. let me make one final remark. there has been some irritation between the council presidency and the commission, which is very regrettable, since this is a belgian presidency. it was about a joint appearance and who said what when. there has been some irritation because three member states have met. i don't want to play this up or ignore it. but i would ask all the european institutions to consider the following: this europe is so complicated that it must not be a europe of vanities, that it must not be a europe of domination, but that all institutions must be brought together. it is important that we understand each other and that we act together, because our common european future is at stake. i hope that the crisis in which the world is now finds itself will bring the european institutions together and make them act together for europe. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! i was pleased to note that the 'future of europe' thematic area was also discussed in ghent in preparation for the laeken summit. you, mr prime minister, have announced that the laeken declaration on this issue will not be a classic one, but an ambitious one, recognising the weaknesses of the eu and the fears of its citizens, and clearly showing the way forward for the enlarged union in the world of the future. i am convinced that the belgian presidency will do everything in its power to bring about a decision in december which actually meets this high standard. in my view, the following points should be taken into account when convening a convention to prepare the next intergovernmental conference. firstly, the balanced proportional composition of the convention, with representatives of the national parliaments and the european parliament, similar to the convention which drew up the charter of fundamental rights. secondly, members of the national parliaments and government representatives of the applicant countries must be fully involved in the work of the convention and have at least observer status. thirdly, the composition of the convention must ensure that the principle of political pluralism is guaranteed. political debates need pros and cons. it is only in this way that they become alive and interesting, and only if the most diverse political forces from the member states really work together can a politically viable result be achieved, which will then be supported by the population. fourthly, the work of the convention must be made fully transparent, both in the conduct of its debates and deliberations and in the access of the public to documents, which must be guaranteed by all available means. fifthly, we need a targeted, structured dialogue with civil society, and i hope that the proposals put forward by the presidency will also be supported by the various governments. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it has become clear in the last few weeks and months that a joint action by the member states of the european union as the european union brings added value to each of its members. if i see that the troika, for example, has been very successful in helping to bring about the anti-terrorist coalition in the middle east, and that this is thanks to the troika, then this is an important proof of that. i regret all the more that individual member states are falling more and more into bilateralism. for example, the troika was in washington at the same time as the french president, the german foreign minister and the british prime minister. i do not think that this is the right approach to present the overall picture of the european union clearly. i also think that the meeting of the three heads of government in the run-up to the summit only raises suspicions that we are reaching a directorate solution. in the european union, all member states are basically equal. the european union can only exist if the powers are vested in supranational institutions and the small countries do not feel that they are being directed by the big ones. if this principle is not accepted, we will be in big trouble. let me make one more point: there is a danger - as my group chairman has already pointed out - that in the field of internal security, good decisions taken by the council will be crushed in the mills of national bureaucracies. i would suggest to the belgian presidency, which has done such excellent work in recent weeks, that it should look at the treaty of amsterdam and point out to the council that when decisions are taken in the council of ministers, decisions are taken by majority in the field of justice and home affairs - this legal possibility is provided for in the treaty of amsterdam - so that we can take the necessary decisions at european level and meet the challenge of combating a transnational phenomenon, terrorism. let me make one further remark and request, mr president-in-office: i would like to thank you very much for making this convention possible. but if possible, there should be a convention in laeken based on a procedure which offers the chance of a uniform proposal for the convention. it must be a convention as a basis for the deliberations of the heads of state or government. there are still some concerns here, and i ask you to keep an eye on them. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i very much welcome the fact that the belgian presidency of the council has used the summit to make the introduction of euro cash a top priority. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i hope very much that this will also be seen as a positive signal. i would like to stress once again that the attitude of the heads of state or government to the commission's proposal on charges for crossborder payments is certainly a step in the right direction. we in the european parliament will certainly take this step at the next partsession. the economic and employment situation, i.e. the situation on the labour market, and consumer confidence must certainly be assessed very critically in the present situation. i welcome the report from the commission to the council on the assessment of the economic impact of the terrible events of 11 september. i think it's important that we agree on a common approach. it's not everywhere. i believe that, while we must continue to insist on structural reforms and their progress, particularly in financial markets, but also in goods and services, we should not only stress the need for sound finances in the european union and the need to stick to the stability and growth pact, but also take advantage of the flexibility that the pact provides, because we need more investment in the european union. the lisbon path remains the right one, namely investment-led growth with employment and, above all, the mutual support of economic, employment and social policies. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. in these times of crisis we must stand firm on this, and even more than before the european investment bank must be strengthened in its role of helping to break through public investment in infrastructure. i am referring to crossborder public infrastructure projects within the union itself, but also those which link our european union with the countries of central and eastern europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. beyond all constitutional questions, the question is posed to europeans in the present situation: how capable are you of action? is the european union perceived as such in the management of this international crisis or not? the question is a negative one, because it is the americans and, partly, the british and their allies who are acting, not the european union as such. the british should not be fooled either. they too are only a junior partner in the business and far from having the weight that a european acting in concert could have. the european community is only capable of acting as a community, not bi- or tri- or multilaterally. that is why it was a grave mistake for the board of the big three to resign before ghent. this is not proof of european ability to act, but it is a dead end and shows a considerable degree of insensitivity to how europe works. those who have done so must be written in the genealogy. we need a capacity for action in a community. that is why we need the european intervention force. without an instrument, europeans are not taken seriously in the world. that is why it is ridiculous that there is still a debate about how this instrument is to be financed. this is where the community must prove its strength. but we also need an instrument inside. we need counterterrorism capabilities that operate across borders. police work is carried out in the member states. but it must be understood that international terrorism can only be successfully combated by units capable of operating across borders. community action is what europe lacks and that is what we must concentrate on. (applause from the centre)
council. - mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i am in a perilous position because i have to speak as president of the institution which, according to the rapporteur, is the worst-functioning of all the institutions of the union. so exercise is definitely dangerous. you will agree that the presidency has read with great interest mr poos' report on the reform of the council. mr poos has a very distinguished political career, which he has led in various european forums, which he knows well, both from within, for having participated in them, and from outside, for having observed them with critical interest. however, let me say that the presidency broadly shares the analysis, perhaps not the qualification, but the analysis that there is a need to improve the functioning of the council. the european council in helsinki in june 1999 had already recognised that important changes were needed in the council's working methods and indicated that these changes should be introduced gradually so that by the time of enlargement the council could smoothly take on the increase in its membership. the same council also approved operational recommendations to this effect. the main thrust of these recommendations is broadly in line with some of the concerns expressed in mr poos' report. i will mention only a few. the recommendations thus stressed that the european council's priority task should be to give the union the impetus it needs for its development and to define its general political guidelines. they emphasized the general coordination role of the general affairs council. the committee also called for better coordination of european policy in the member states. the recommendations stressed that it is ultimately up to coreper to prepare and present to the council all items on the agenda. they also called for a reduction in the number of council configurations. these recommendations, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, have been partially implemented. for example, the general affairs council followed the practice recommended in helsinki, which consisted in dividing the council's agenda systematically into two parts: external relations and horizontal issues, including overall policy coordination. the general affairs council also reduced the number of council configurations to sixteen, in order to improve the coherence of its work and to prevent fragmentation of the union's activities. the role of coreper has been specified in the council's rules of procedure. public debates are now being held on new important legislative proposals, as well as on the agenda of the general affairs council and the ecofin council. a first review of the implementation of the helsinki recommendations was presented by the secretary-general of the council at the european council in gothenburg in june this year. it shows that progress has been made, but that it is still insufficient.
commission - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president, i too would like to say that the commission very much shares the analysis made in this excellent report on the council's dysfunction. i am not surprised by the quality of this analysis, given the experience and expertise acquired over the last few years and now put at the service of the european parliament by you, mr poos. i would like to say, after this first overall assessment, that the commission also supports the reforms you propose for the council. the restructuring of the european parliament into a structured and efficient body is in the interest of the whole european union. your report takes up many of the suggestions and observations that we have made in the past, including in our recent white paper on european governance. these reforms are all the more interesting because they can be introduced - as you have said - at the same time. in speaking here about the council, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would of course like to say that, from my point of view, each of our institutions has its own autonomy and is first and foremost responsible for its own reforms. but we also know that each institution is interested in the proper functioning of the whole: that is the spirit and the limits with which i wish to give you the european commission's opinion of the other institution, the council of ministers. it is true that in the debate on the future of the union we must fundamentally examine this institutional architecture, the role of each institution and the changes to be made to the treaty if our union is to have a truly more democratic and effective institutional framework. that is why i think, mr poos, that your report is a very important element in the great debate which is about to begin on the institutional framework of the union, its effectiveness and its democratic legitimacy. nevertheless, the debate on these most fundamental reforms in the run-up to 2004 cannot be an alibi for refusing to adopt today the reforms which the council can already implement in accordance with the treaty. the white paper also sets out the objective of making the council's work as efficient as possible. beyond the differences that can be expressed on some particular point, there is a certain convergence in the analysis of the malfunctions we see - and therefore the reforms that must be carried out - in the framework of the report you are presenting, mr poos, the white paper and also - as you have reminded, madam minister - the trumpf-piris report, drawn up by the general secretariat of the council itself, the operational conclusions of which were widely accepted in helsinki by the european council and which has also been largely implemented in the council's rules of procedure. it is the responsibility and duty of each institution - i repeat - to keep under constant review the efficiency of its own operation. the commission has done so by adopting the white paper and proposing the administrative reform advocated by my colleague neil kinnock. it seems to me that the council will have to do the same someday, as will the european parliament, and the commission will certainly support these two institutions in this exercise. i would remind you that the european council in gothenburg has already instructed the secretary-general of the council to make detailed proposals to that effect for its meeting in laeken. i would like to stress, without going into the details of each of the proposals in your report, mr poos, that the completion of this work of evaluation and improvement is first and foremost a simple matter of political will. it is clear that this will must be expressed as much by the governments of the member states as by our own institutions. at least two points deserve special attention: the concept of the legislative council and the role of the general affairs council. we are well aware, ladies and gentlemen, that mr poos' report distinguishes between three functions of the council, namely a legislative function, a governmental function and a policy coordination function. it is very clear from this - and the commission supports you on this point too - that the council will have to organise itself differently depending on whether it is acting in the context of one or other of these three functions. the legislative council should therefore act in a transparent manner, with open debates and public votes. the number of sectoral councils is probably too high, but it is above all the lack of coordination between these sectoral councils that makes it so that, unlike the european parliament, where all final decisions are taken by the plenary assembly, the 'council' branch of the legislator probably has, by its very nature, much more difficulty in coordinating its various decisions. this situation calls for special reflection on the desire - mentioned in your report - to promote consensus between parliament and the council in the co-decision procedure from the first reading. mr poos, while the commission fully shares this desire to obtain rapid agreements, we must avoid that they are made at the expense of the coherence of the texts it has proposed. the treaties have given the commission the exclusive right of initiative and the duty to safeguard the common interest. the commission is therefore hoping that parliament and the council will ensure that the commission is fully involved in all substantive and procedural aspects of the first reading, in order to ensure that the texts adopted are consistent.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr barnier, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. our group thanks the rapporteur, mr poos, for his report. our colleagues in the committee on constitutional affairs, led by our coordinator, mr íñigo méndez de vigo, have been very active in this work. but this report is a wake-up call. when this report states - i welcome this statement, but i regret that it is true - that the coordination function of the general affairs council has been eroded, the commission's right of initiative has been weakened and, finally, governmental cooperation in the council has been strengthened to the detriment of cooperation at community level, this statement is a wake-up call for the council's ability to function. (applause from the centre) the foreign ministers who now make up the general affairs council are no longer able to fulfil this obligation. they travel the world - whatever their job is - spend a few hours in the council, then let themselves be represented, and they are not there when the votes are taken anyway. the council should therefore take its own rules of procedure, namely rule 11 (4), seriously and check how many ministers are actually present at the end of the votes. we need a new general affairs council. let us call it a council of european ministers, meeting weekly, if necessary more often, in brussels and, of course, in the national capitals, always available in their governments. we also insist that - and commissioner barnier has also pointed out - we need a separation between the legislative council, which meets and consults publicly when it makes legislative decisions - not in committees, but when it makes final decisions - and the executive council. i hope that we will be able to ensure that this is done and that, above all, a council of european ministers as intelligent as the council is - as i would like to call it in simplified terms - will also coordinate the various councils. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that has to change! i would like to make a point, although it is not quite as topical at the moment, but it should point the way. it is a question of replacing mr hombach. i recommend that we do not fill this hombach position with a hombach ii, not because i have anything against mr hombach, but because we have to go a new way institutionally. i think we should transfer these responsibilities to the commission, so that the commission, which has the budgetary resources, also has responsibility for these matters, ... (applause) ... so that we can eventually get the high representative's responsibilities transferred to the commission one day, where a vice-president would be in charge. (applause from the centre) let me conclude by saying, and i do not mean to offend mr poos, that i hope that the members of the council today will have the strength and the insight to take the right decisions while they are still members of the council and not only when they are honourable members of this european parliament. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank mr poos and point out that all the institutions of the european union must reorient themselves and find better ways of working in the face of the challenges they face, and in the face of the enlargement of the european union, the sheer changes in the number of participants. the commission has been working on such an internal reform process for some time. the european parliament is in the process of creating such conditions with the corbett report currently under preparation, as far as we can do so without the need for treaty changes. i think that these two institutions and the council, which will have the greatest problems in this respect simply because of the change in the number of its members, should do so. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. it is not a question of the efficiency of a council presidency, but of the structures. it is therefore extremely important that the many proposals put forward by mr poos in this connection, which can be implemented by a mere change of the rules of procedure, without any change to the treaty, should be taken up. i think we need to do this for two reasons, to increase efficiency and to increase transparency. the only way to increase efficiency is to avoid leaving this burden on the general council in the hands of one person and in the context of one event. you meet as point a, then do a little foreign policy, then meet with 27 of the presidents of kazakhstan, and then move on to a point b of legislation, and all this in fluid transitions, with half of the participants always at the press conference. madam president, i may be exaggerating a little, but i fear that in many areas this is a bit of a reality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should really be able to formulate a coherent foreign policy in the council as long as this is an intergovernmental event, and we need to make clear that in the course of transparency we have a legislative council which is public in the final vote and in the government's statement of why and for what reasons they are voting. we will only win the acceptance of europe by the citizens if they know who made what decisions and for what reasons. this is a fundamental question of winning the acceptance of our citizens, and only in this way can we establish the interaction between parliament and the council in a public process in the codecision procedure, so that the citizens and the media have the chance of a fair trial and can identify those who are guilty or allegedly guilty of wrong decisions. i think it is urgent that this parliamentarisation of work should also be politicised. we are doing legislative work which is regulated and co-decided by civil servants in many areas. i believe that this is also difficult to reconcile with our democratic understanding, and that is why i would ask you, madam president-in-office, to take an initiative in this respect in laeken, because we can achieve a great deal without changing the treaty and in this way we should also prepare ourselves for the enlargement of the european union.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the council is not functioning well, and that is bad for all the other institutions in the union. it is bad for parliament and bad for the commission. the lack of transparency and efficiency, which has been mentioned here many times, also affects our work and makes us look bad in the eyes of the citizens. that is why the council needs to be reformed urgently. i can only emphasize this once more. jacques poos has put forward useful, valuable proposals on how this could be done without the need for a new european treaty. i also believe that citizens have a right to know who voted and how they voted in laws and regulations which affect them in their daily lives. this publicity of the legislative council is urgently needed. i do not think the number of expert councils is the problem. the problem is the lack of coordination within the council and also within the governments of the member states. there's got to be a change here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the committee on constitutional affairs put on the agenda on monday other items, such as the question of the presidency of the council when we are 25 or more countries, or the definition of the european council. what's this? what's this? is it an organ, a body, or is it part of the council? this reform is urgently needed, madam president-in-office, and we hope that you will be able to do something by laeken and that the council will be able to take up the matter again in laeken with a view to the future treaty on european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner lamy has thankfully pointed out the need to strengthen the european parliament's institutional role in european trade policy. i would like to ask you, madam president-in-office of the council, if you can support this view when you prepare your documents for the next intergovernmental conference and, first of all, for the convention we are all striving for. the european parliament should finally make a breakthrough there, so that it can also be on the same level institutionally as the american senate and house of representatives. the wto will acquire a global dimension in the coming years, with the upcoming membership of china and taiwan - both longstanding important trading partners of europe - and the subsequent membership of russia, which will give it even greater global representativeness and present new challenges. to do this, it will have to adapt its structures and change its way of working. in addition, for qatar, we must start by involving all developing countries, not just the least developed countries, in the negotiations. the technical assistance requested from the eu and the other industrialized countries is crucial for the future effective participation of these countries in decision-making. but despite these changes, the wto must become more efficient and more understandable and transparent to the world's citizens. how will the wto reconcile its newly strengthened universality with the need to become even more efficient and open up markets? our resolution attempts to reconcile these two requirements - and it is certainly not yet perfect - with one another. we europeans must contribute our environmental legislation, our food safety rules, our multifunctional agriculture and our social legislation as expressions of a concrete european reality. now, a few weeks after 9/11, it is particularly important that we, the eu and in particular the european parliament, continue our unwavering commitment to greater openness and democracy in the wto and resolutely tackle the necessary reforms, also in response to terrorism. we need a more free and fair world trade, not a lock-in to protectionism and a return to national markets. we must also make every effort to implement soon the central proposal of the european parliament to set up an efficient parliamentary assembly of the wto, which will be the mouthpiece of the peoples of the world on trade issues. that is why we need the representatives of the american congress in doha. we are counting on the parliaments of the industrialized countries, the emerging countries and all the developing countries. we are not going to vote for the motion for a resolution, but we are going to vote for the motion for a resolution. we support the efforts of commissioner lamy, particularly in africa, this continent largely forgotten in world trade, to involve more in the dialogue through our structures of cooperation in the field of the parliamentary assembly. our seminar on 12 april this year was the first example of a successful conference on trade, democracy and development, with the participation of our friends from africa, together with representatives of the industrialized countries of america, europe and asia. the technical assistance provided by the commission and our parliament's budget have also played an important role.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the various manifestations of democratic resistance to the dangers of the unchecked expansion of the wto's power have obviously given rise to reflection. but it is obvious that well-intentioned appeals cannot correct this development. the movement of goods and money is governed by the market mechanism. the market mechanism is amoral in its very nature. if you want to survive in the market, you have to make a profit or you're going to go under. the wto has clearly set itself the objective of closing the market to the claims of civil society, even to parliaments. the opinions now before us at least show an awareness of the problem. partial steps are the right thing to do. but much more consistent steps must be taken. you can't wash the wto bear's fur without getting it wet. the aim must be to achieve a new world economic order which distributes the wealth of the earth differently, justly and fairly, overcomes poverty, achieves broad democratic participation and parliamentary participation and guarantees and enables self-sustaining economic developments for all countries. the european parliament should use all its powers to challenge the council and the commission accordingly.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to say a few words in addition, perhaps more on the technical side and less on the substance: i would like to begin by expressing my gratitude to commissioner lamy for the excellent cooperation and - i think i speak for all of us - for the excellent style with which he is representing the european union in this forthcoming round of trade. the task will be extremely difficult. on the one hand, we must find the right balance between representing european interests and involving the other countries, the negotiating partners, especially the developing countries. i personally believe that this round can send a message to the world more than ever, that it is possible to reconcile trade and politics. i trust, commissioner lamy, that you will be able to enforce this, together with your colleague bob zoelleck and the many other negotiating partners you have. it's not going to be an easy task. but you have excellent qualifications for this. i am grateful to you for your continued support for parliament's greater role in trade policy. the council has unfortunately not understood this step. i hope, like you, that we will achieve more here in the future. i would also like to thank all the members who have always supported this policy. i would remind you, madam president-in-office, that you have a responsibility in doha, namely to organise the meeting with all the trade ministers. we have a good tradition of the european parliament's delegation meeting the ministers present at the trade meeting. i would ask you very much to organise this meeting again and to ensure that we have a dialogue, and that it is not a chatter that is just put on the air, as the council sometimes does, but that it is actually a serious dialogue. i would also like to inform you very briefly - my colleague konrad schwaiger has already mentioned this - that the parliaments will also be meeting together in doha. the invitation will be issued by the president of this house together with the president of the ipu. i hope we can make progress there. we need your support here too, madam president-in-office. we have always had this support from the commission. thank you again for your cooperation!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr harlem désir, on his very good, clear and comprehensive report. commissioner, if we fail to make the decision-making process in the wto transparent and democratic, the peoples of the wto member states will not accept this in the long run, because the nation state cannot continue to delegate more and more vital matters to supranational organisations, leaving parliaments and thus civil society excluded from democratic control and participation. the procedures in the arbitral tribunal must also be seen in this context. the arbitration process needs to be fundamentally changed. it has to be transparent, and the composition has to change. it is also necessary to give the developing countries the instruments which will enable them to participate in the negotiations on an equal footing and to evaluate the decisions to be taken accordingly. it is a difference between a delegation of 150 experts arriving and a developing country having the difficulty of sending its ambassador to the appropriate places. i would like to stress this point again. otherwise, harlem désir has already said all there is to say.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have said it so often in recent weeks, and in the light of this annual report we should emphasize it again: we've actually known nothing intellectually new since 9/11. but it has become clearer and more aware that we need a new definition of security, that the old concepts of security policy are in fact no longer working, and that for this reason a certain combination of external and internal security must be created. because it's no longer that a potential enemy is clearly visible beyond a border, but that they also have the ability to be in the middle of us. i think we need to find a coordinated procedure here. but we also know that in the face of this threat, it is no longer a national challenge to be met, because the challenge is international, it is transnational. that is why we must also find the transboundary answers to these questions. the only chance any european state has of guaranteeing lasting peace and security for its citizens is if there is a pooling of our forces in the military, in the field of prevention, in the field of civilian crisis management, but also in the cooperation of the security and intelligence services. i think that is why we have made considerable progress in the last two years, looking at the decisions since the amsterdam and nice treaties and, in particular, the decisions of the cologne summit and the subsequent summits. i believe that on this basis we should move forward on the path of developing a european security and defence policy if the necessary conditions are thereby created. we must recognize that we believe that this requires certain structural changes. because we think that this will only work if first of all the member states realise that only the common institutions can act, and that bilateralism also weakens individuals, even if they think that it gives them a special profile in the media. the second is that the structures between the institutions must also be in order. that's why i don't want any double work. i think it is absurd that the commission and the council have civil crisis management committees under the high representative. i therefore want to reiterate the position of the european parliament that we should combine the functions of the foreign commissioner and the high representative in the commission in the long term. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this has nothing to do with the earnings of those involved today, but is a structural issue. on this basis we must of course also create special relations with the council for this person, in order to create the appropriate legitimacy base at this level. i think we can also clearly say that the common value is actually being created. i would like to give a few examples: i believe that the grand anti-terrorist coalition, for example, would not have been created in this way if it had not been for the special european influence that the troika's trip to the middle east has had, which has brought about special results. i do not believe that the grand anti-terrorist coalition can last if the european union does not bring stability to the mediterranean through the barcelona process. i also believe that the european union has a duty to combat the causes that provide the emotional seeds for terrorism, whether in the middle east, in the relations between pakistan and india or in other regions of the world where we should make a special effort to contribute to peace. we must recognize that our position towards the united states is that of a partnership and that, despite all the efforts to develop its own security and defence policy, nato is still necessary because it alone can guarantee collective security. but if we want to play a role in politics as a whole, we must also develop our relations with russia, build new bridges and provide a new framework, a new form of european economic area for those countries which cannot, do not or should not be members of the european union at the present time. but i would also say that all this will only work if we are also prepared to make the funds available in the national budgets so that the commitments for 60,000 men for the rapid reaction force can really be met. we will not succeed in the field of prevention and civilian crisis management, we will no longer play a role as players in foreign policy, but will only be objects, also in relation to russia and the united states of america, if we do not demonstrate our own military capabilities in a credible manner. prevention also often only works if you can show the country you want to intervene in to bring peace that you also have military options. the mere fact that one has military capabilities - as all historical experience shows - often prevents military means from being used at all. the realisation of the idea of having a rapid reaction force of 60 000 men, transport capabilities and a satellite system of its own by 2003 is therefore crucial to the credibility of future european foreign and security policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to join in the congratulations and take only two points from the brok report. first, the issue of conflict prevention. we can see in the example of macedonia a case of failed conflict prevention. if all the members of the council had been as active as the members of this parliament in urging all the macedonian governments for years to finally put an end to the unequal treatment of the albanian citizens in macedonia, we would not have this trouble and the problems we have now. if this issue had been included in the stability and association agreements, if it had been seen as a precondition by the members of the council, the kosovo terrorists would not have found support in macedonia for their work. the macedonians would not have to change their constitution under time pressure today, as if as a result of the success of the terrorist actions, because they would have already done so. so much for missing conflict prevention in this country! the second point which is very important to me was raised by mr brok. i think that the time of conferences and quick start packages should finally be over in the framework of the stability pact. the stability pact should be closely linked to the work of the agency for reconstruction and perhaps extended to the agency for reconstruction and development in this region. the stability pact should therefore be attached to the commission, where all the work has to be done anyway. we could then avoid friction losses, we could create synergy effects, and we could promote real stability in the region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we could move forward with the free trade zone down there, building transport infrastructure and fighting human trafficking and other things. many officials in the commission will soon be out of work, because the enlargement debate in the commission is almost over in some areas. let's give these people something to do. let us put the stability pact in the hands of those who can afford it, and let us take it out of the hands of those who are leaving the stability pact anyway. let us hand over the stability pact to the commission and perhaps to a wise man, martti ahtisaari, so that it can really be a success for the whole region and for the european union.
commission mr president, our alert exercise this afternoon has only resulted in one casualty, and that is the answer to the question which mr morillon put to the commission and which the commission must of course answer! so i will try to do the nurse's job by answering, at least in part, the question asked, which concerns the role of the king in a future afghan government. the northern alliance is, as its name suggests, made up of ethnic groups from northern afghanistan. it is clear that it is not representative of the pashtuns, who make up half the population of afghanistan, and so it goes without saying that a government formed or dominated by the northern alliance would not meet the representativeness criterion, any more than the taliban government does. let alone the position of the neighbouring pakistan on the northern alliance, which we know. the aim, in our view, is therefore to bring together sufficiently representative forces in a government while at the same time gaining the support of afghanistan's neighbours. the role of the king, if there is to be a role, must in my view be considered in the light of this objective. i have delivered to you, mr. morillon, the essence of my science. i agree that it is not entirely sufficient to answer your question, and i will see that a more precise answer is given to you tomorrow.
- commissioner, i asked you if it was possible to think what i thought, namely that the stability pact should be linked to the agency for reconstruction and development and above all to the work of the commission, where, in a short time, we will have enough civil servants to do the work.
, chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank mr lamassoure for his report, which also draws attention to the fact that nato partner turkey is of great importance in these days. for all the criticisms we have rightly made in the past and still make today about the constitution and human rights, we must say that turkey is an extremely pro-western, democratic and human rights-oriented country compared to most of its neighbours. everything is relative and must be seen in comparison. we must also see that some progress has been made and that in turkey, despite the great economic problems it is currently facing, an attempt is being made to give greater powers to the civilian political forces by amending the constitution and changing the composition of the security council. we shall have to see whether all this is sufficient. the commission will have to help us to meet the copenhagen criteria. the copenhagen criteria explicitly state that we need to see developments in the political sphere if accession negotiations are to be justified at all. we will have to examine this on a case-by-case basis. if further negotiations are opened, we will also have to answer the question of whether turkey is able to meet the conditions of the european single market. i would like to mention only two points which will be a concrete test for the european union's very difficult development in a very dangerous security situation. i cannot understand turkey's refusal to find a compromise within the framework of the european security and defence policy on the question of the conditions under which it will participate in it and what cooperation with nato might look like there. this is a test case for me. we should not allow blackmail to take place on this issue. i think there must be a willingness to compromise, which was negotiated in budapest and blocked by the military. it is not a question of the commission's being able to do so, but of the commission's being able to do so. the second point concerns what is to be achieved in the case of cyprus. is turkey ready for a constructive solution in cyprus? if a solution is not possible, how will it behave in the context of the enlargement of the european union? i think these are two very concrete cases to test for credibility.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague mr lamassoure on his excellent report. i say this mainly because i often have to deal with an allegation in turkey: those in turkey who keep accusing the european parliament of being anti-turkish must now admit once again that this allegation is not true. the report by mr swoboda is an objective statement of the situation in turkey. the rapporteur notes that the legislative work of the turkish parliament in the context of constitutional reform is truly commendable. the turkish colleagues have been very successful in the conditions of turkish reality - some of them are here today - and we have been very successful. but now those who have to continue this work that has been started are called upon. the turkish republic's ministries of interior and justice play an important role in this area. the long overdue implementation of reform is urgently needed, especially now after september 11, but also in spite of september 11. it is easy to see from turkish media that torture is still practiced in some police stations. there are still strange suicides of people who have been in police custody. as long as there are such events in turkey, as long as turkey is not prepared to meet the copenhagen criteria, it goes without saying that there will be no date for the opening of accession negotiations and turkey will remain the only country among the 13 candidate countries with a candidate status without accession negotiations. i hope that this latest report will motivate those in charge in turkey to move forward and not just talk about reforms, but actually implement them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what efforts has the turkish government made since the helsinki summit to guarantee human and fundamental rights, to find a peaceful solution to the kurdish question and to abolish the death penalty? the recent amendment to the turkish constitution is not far-reaching enough. the death penalty was only partially abolished and the kurdish language was not recognised. is this real reform? my answer is no. turkey must not be given special treatment in the enlargement process. i think we run the risk of giving in to turkey's wishes if we accept the lamassoure report unchanged. the report is reserved on some points, so we leave turkey some room to manoeuvre. we must insist that the kurdish question be resolved politically and that human and fundamental rights be guaranteed. the time is ripe for comprehensive reforms. the european parliament has always been a party to the peace process, and it has always been a party to the peace process. i too carry this message in my heart and will continue to work for the realization of this wish.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think it was a good thing i took off my headphones early. i guess i saved myself a lot of trouble. mr lamassoure has presented a very good report. many colleagues have said that. i would like to give the report the fair attribute, because i believe that turkey has a right to a fair report, as does every candidate. that means that we are actually addressing all the shortcomings, but we are also acknowledging when there has been progress. i would also like to call on my turkish colleagues and the turkish public to take note of the report as a whole and not selectively, just as we are trying to take note of everything that is happening in turkey. in the end, i believe that a turkey which has started on the road to meeting the copenhagen criteria is a better turkey than one which does not. it is a turkey that is giving a boost to the forces, that is also trying to overcome the unacceptable deficits that still exist in the political criteria within the country. it cannot expect any political concessions. we realize that we are rightly wishing that all muslim countries in the world were structured like turkey, and that we would have fewer problems, especially when we look at 9/11. but this discount does not mean that we close our eyes to the criteria for membership. on the other hand, it also has a right not to be subject to any additional conditions. i think, for example, that what mr lamassoure said on the point concerning armenia is a very good thing. after having explicitly mentioned genocide last year, we note this year that there are apparently positive developments. because we can see that people sit down to talk about the past. my own country has had very good experience with this, and i believe that this is the way we should support in this particular case, so that the neighbourly relations between turkey and armenia can develop well in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am naturally, because i am late, in the memorable situation where basically everything has been said, but not by everyone. i would like to make two comments on two points which are particularly important to me. i would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur. i think the report is excellent. he's very moderate. we can live with it, and above all it is consensual. we must bear in mind that this is a progress report. i think there will be many more progress reports on turkey's rapprochement with the european union. i now come to the points on which i wish to make a statement. first of all, the issue of the death penalty. i think it has not been sufficiently appreciated in this house tonight. the political reforms which turkey has recently undertaken in general are very promising and are fully recognized by us. but we all know - and turkey should know - that this is a tremendous step forward in turkey itself. we are not going to vote for the report. i must say that from our point of view, turkey is always a bit torn between the two. but perhaps, in fact, the way is already the goal, particularly in the field of human rights. to return to the death penalty: it must, of course, be abolished in our view. there is no partial abolition of the death penalty from a democratic point of view. there can only be a general abolition. it is quite clear that this is a difficult domestic political situation in turkey at the moment. the second point that is important to me is the fight against corruption within turkey. because as long as corruption within turkey is the basis of public and social life, the people have no confidence in politics, and as long as they have no confidence in politics, they have greater confidence in the military. but it cannot be that in a democratic society the military, in the form of the national security council, de facto always has the last word after parliament's decisions. i think that there is still a lot of work to be done in turkey on this. this can only be done by fighting corruption and by strengthening the public's trust in politics.
the commission has already done so. i very much regret that we are discussing such an important subject at this late hour and, of course, again before almost empty seats, because the implications of the accession of the people's republic of china to the wto are of worldwide significance in the truest sense of the word and we should have been given even more attention. the history of the world trade organization goes back many years to a time when world war ii had left a trail of devastation and there was uncertainty about what a peaceful future would look like. the key elements of a peaceful world - this was as clear then as it is today - are freedom, security and stability, democracy and human rights. with these basic principles we have overcome the old divisions in western europe and finally we have created an era of peace that i think we can be proud of. but we must defend this peace every day, as each of us has learned the hard way. today we are faced with the great enlargement of the european union. in a few years we shall have a europe which can be an area of stability and freedom. but how are we going to do that? we do this by integration. integration means inclusion, unification, political and economic completion. i think that no one will deny that this is an absolute recipe for peaceful development, and this applies not only to europe. other parts of the world have not been blessed with peace in the past 50 years. the cold war meant unrest and conflict for many regions of the world. we must remember this if we are to understand the importance of the world trade organization today. again, the key word is integration. the more countries that commit themselves to the principles of peaceful action, the more stable and peaceful the world can become. for these reasons, i warmly welcome the accession of the people's republic of china to the wto. for the same reason, i welcome the accession of taiwan to the world trade organisation. we want to integrate and not leave a part at the door. the eu has clearly stated the key objectives in its strategy for asia. the political dialogue with the people's republic of china should be intensified, the transition to an open society supported and china further integrated into the world economy. this last objective is now within reach. only with china, both the people's republic and taiwan, will the wto become a genuine world trade organization. i can assure you that we will not lose sight of the other objectives and i also stress that this includes a dialogue on human rights. the many negative aspects of the explanatory statement which you, mr gahrton, believe you can see in relation to china's accession to the wto, we as the epp-ed group cannot accept in its unilateral - i think - and perhaps disproportionate formulation. i think the benefits of these accessions are overwhelming and they are on all sides. the award of the 2008 olympic games in beijing has become a hot topic of discussion, as has accession to the wto. but i am convinced that we are on the right path, the path of integration and not of exclusion, the path of inclusion and not of isolation, and i hope, the path to a more peaceful world, which we need today more than ever. the horror of 9/11 is clearly in our bones. that is why we must stand together.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for the work he has done. of course, we congratulate china and taiwan, because i think we should be - as my predecessor said - glad that china and taiwan are being welcomed. a whole lot of reforms are being initiated. the commission rightly points out this. china will also take a key position in the wto, and this will also lead to significant changes for the western countries. i am quite sure that this will also present the commission with further challenges. we are also supporting china's accession with considerable financial resources and i think we should do even more. parliament is being consulted for the first time. this is also due to the excellent cooperation with the commission, but of course also with the council. i would like to say to my colleague mr gahrton that it is true that china's accession to the wto is not without controversy. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one, but i think that it is not a good one. i would say that the disaster scenario you have conjured up in your report has been an extreme exaggeration. i would appreciate it if you would be a little more fair and balanced in your assessment of these matters in the future.
i would like to point out that we in the epp group have tabled amendment no 6 in recital a and that we are asking here in the fourth line of the english text for the words 'supply constraints' to be replaced by the word 'quotas', because that is the correct expression.
mr president, i would ask, in agreement with the applicants, that the wording be 'expected by the member states' and the words 'and the council' added.
the commission has already done so. it is not until the presentation of the green paper on the future of the common fisheries policy that we have become aware of the profound problems facing european fisheries. the green paper has only made it clear to us once again how serious these are. our committee is eagerly discussing the various approaches to solving the problems. we know that we cannot simply do a magic trick and make all our problems go away. if we are to be told this, we must call it what it is, that is, "lazy magic". the common fisheries policy, as it stands, has not succeeded in preventing the crises affecting many fish stocks and in reducing vessel overcapacity. the future ability of the union to shape a fisheries policy in the new century depends on whether we all have an economic livelihood. the commission is now proposing to extend the current multiannual guidance programme by one year. in the light of the ongoing reform discussions, i think we also need these measures for the sake of continuity. the problems, however, cannot be solved in this short period, but perhaps we can alleviate them a little. the key is the proper implementation of the programme. data are needed but some member states do not provide them or only partially. this requires a sanctioning instrument for the data to be provided at all, and comparable criteria and categories. every shipowner wants to increase efficiency. but we can't move the premises. we want more safety at sea. this is a central point in the european parliament's demands. however, we should be careful to avoid negative effects on safety, even if the mantle of efficiency is wrapped around it. the proposed change in the structural measures is also currently out of line. the achievement of the targets in all fleet segments as a precondition for public subsidies is counterproductive, because it punishes everyone less for the omissions. the fishermen will only accept our policy if there are fair conditions.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the extension of the multiannual guidance programmes for one year to extend their validity until the decision on the future fleet policy after 2002 is sensible and, i think, is supported above all in principle. the objectives of the map are correct, but the implementation by the member states still leaves much to be desired. the commission's reports have shown this time and again in the past. we have also repeatedly criticised this lack of implementation, and it is clear that future fleet policy must provide a remedy. the commission therefore intends to amend the map and fiaf provisions in addition to the one-year extension. i reject some of these amendments because i think we should better resolve these questions in the framework of the decision on the principles of fleet policy. in my view, it is not worthwhile to adopt any major changes in the last year of the map 4 programme, especially if they could have a negative impact on safety on board fishing vessels. however, if member states are to continue to be able to request an increase in capacity for measures to improve safety on board and the hygiene of fishery products, and if these measures are to be financed from fifg resources, there must be a real guarantee that these measures do not lead to an increase in fishing. this condition must be fulfilled. investment in safety on board cannot be prevented by the fact that the conditions for the application of the measures are not respected or that the control of these conditions is sometimes not or cannot be ensured in some member states. we should use the debate on the reform of the common fisheries policy to find solutions to the dilemma between safety on board and conservation of stocks, which has been highlighted once again in this report. but one must not be at the expense of the other.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank you, mrs attwooll, for producing this report. i have listened to the debate very carefully and i feel i must now clarify a few things because i think there are some more profound misunderstandings in relation to this commission proposal. firstly, there is the question of whether we need a fleet policy or not. i think we need a fleet policy, and we need an effective and more effective fleet policy, because the current system is far from sufficient. we have a huge overcapacity in our european fleet as a whole, and if we do not adapt this fleet to the possible future fishing activities, we will never get rid of these difficulties. i would also like to say quite frankly that this is not what we are aiming at with map iv. with map iv we are a long way from achieving a reduction of 30 or even 40%. there is a report that you probably or hopefully know about that says that we are going to raise at best 5% over the entire map period, and even that is very unlikely. more likely, this entire map iv exercise will remain ineffective. that is the reality, and that is the truth, and we have to deal with it. but there's a second principle we need to look at: i think it makes little sense to isolate fleet policy from the rest of the common fisheries policy. we must see it in the context of the other major political elements of our common fisheries policy. we therefore believe that it is entirely correct and proper to integrate the considerations on the future of fleet policy into the formulation of our new common fisheries policy, which we intend to adopt next year. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. because map iv is due to expire next year, and that would mean that we would then have to isolate all the other areas of the new fisheries policy from that of the fleet policy. so we had the idea to seek an extension of this one year to bring about a synchronization here. but at the same time we do not want to be accused of extending an ineffective regulation for another year. that is why we have also proposed some measures to improve this map. in addition, some member states do not even comply with these minor objectives of map iv. the commission has unfortunately no other means of enforcing compliance with the map objectives than to initiate proceedings before the ecj. that is why we have put forward proposals in this respect. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. amendments nos 1 to 3 and 5 deal with the question of safety at sea. i would like to make one thing clear here too: no one should make the commission believe that we are against greater safety at sea. we also know about the problems and accidents that have recently occurred at sea. we therefore also know how necessary it is to improve safety and we are also encouraging this. community funds are being used to improve safety. i do not deny that the increase in safety will increase the weight of ships here and there, but that has nothing to do with the fact that we cannot demand that this increase in weight for a single ship be compensated by withdrawing a few more ships from the market. that's what this is about. it is not forbidden to install additional safety devices on a particular ship. that is why we are not prepared to accept these four amendments. we can accept amendments nos 11 and 12 because the application of the safety clause is limited to vessels of less than 12 metres in length which no longer fish with trawls. this is particularly beneficial for older vessels, which are mainly engaged in coastal fishing and for which, under clear conditions, an increase in capacity and engine power is also justified if it increases safety. i am rather concerned about amendments nos 4, 7, 8 and 9. this is a rejection of any form of restriction of access to fiaf aid. but in the end, this is the only mechanism we have to reduce fleet capacity at all. it must be clear that the widespread modernisation aid from the community is undermining all our efforts to reduce the fleet. how can this possibly work if we first support the scrapping of ships with public community funds and then support the purchase of new ships with community funds again? we must decide at some point which of these two things should take precedence. parliament also expressed the view that it was not appropriate to change the provisions of a regulation adopted less than two years ago for a period of six years. i think that it is now, in view of the difficult situation of stocks, that the time has come to discuss this issue. amendment no 6 adds a provision to the regulation which was inserted at your instigation and which stops fifg aid for exports or for the formation of mixed companies. we have already discussed this in the previous item on the agenda. the commission fully agrees and proposes that the lists of countries which are in breach of this rule should also be published. finally, the commission cannot accept amendment no 10 because it is an internal procedure of the commission, and therefore a purely commission matter. the commission is therefore also responsible for this. (applause from the centre)
- thank you very much, mr fischler. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 6.30 p.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0314/2001) by mr gallagher, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation (com (2001) 422 - c5-0405/2001 - 2001/0168 (cns)) on the conclusion of two agreements in the form of an exchange of letters concerning the extension of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of senegal on fishing off the coast of senegal for the periods 1 may 2001 to 31 july 2001 and 1 august 2001 to 31 december 2001.
the commission. i would first of all like to thank you, mr gallagher, for your report on the extension of the fisheries agreement in question until the end of the year. i am glad that you agree with the commission's proposal. this will allow community fishermen to continue their activities in the region, while a study on the fisheries sector is still being completed, as requested by senegal. the extension of the existing protocol will also allow us to conduct and conclude the negotiations on the multiannual protocol without unnecessary time pressure. as you know, this agreement is a very important agreement for us. the financial volume is considerable at eur 12 million per year, and for the eight-month extension this amounts to eur 8 million in pure terms. the advantages for senegal, apart from the considerable financial volume, are not least due to the fact that the agreement also secures a large part of the raw material supply to the senegalese fishing industry, since ec vessels have to land part of the catch in senegalese ports. the commission cannot accept this amendment because, as is well known, it is a fundamental part of the community's external fisheries policy that the cost of fishing rights is partly covered by the community budget and partly by the shipowners. this is what is stated in all the negotiating directives for fisheries agreements. the agreements themselves set out the financial terms of the agreements. the eu will pay for this while the shipowners will have to pay the licence fees. in conclusion, let me say that the next round of negotiations on a new agreement or protocol has been scheduled for 20-23 november.
- thank you very much, mr fischler. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 6.30 p.m.
- doc. a5-0315/2001 by mrs fraga estevez, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation (com (2001) 409 - c5-0406/2001 - 2001/0161 (cns)) on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the democratic republic of madagascar on fishing off madagascar for the period 21 may 2001 to 20 may 2004.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my dear mrs fraga! i thank you for your report on the new protocol to the fisheries agreement with madagascar, which will enable us to safeguard the fishing activities of our tuna fleet operating in these waters until may 2004. i'm also glad you're able to accept the design. the new protocol covers tuna only and provides fishing opportunities for 80 vessels. the financial compensation is eur 825 000. i would like to stress that more than 60% of this money is earmarked for specific measures, benefiting the local fisheries sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the fisheries sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards amendments nos 1 and 3, i would like to draw your attention to the existing interinstitutional agreements and, in particular, to the framework agreement between parliament and the commission of 5 july 2000. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. i cannot agree to amendment no 2 because negotiations on a protocol to a fisheries agreement do not require a new mandate of their own. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
- thank you very much, mr fischler. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 6.30 p.m. the debate was concluded earlier than expected, thanks to the discipline of the speakers who, contrary to what often happens, did not use up all their speaking time. even the commissioners, mr fischler, usually ask for more time than you have shown with your austrian conciseness today. you will understand that we have to adjourn the sitting and that we cannot proceed to the vote any sooner, as it is announced in the printed agenda at 6.30 p.m. i am adjourned until 6.30 p.m. and i ask you to be back at the right time. (the sitting was suspended at 5.51 p.m. and resumed at 6.30 p.m.)
- before we move on to the explanations of vote, mr blokland would like to speak on the agenda.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to say to mr blokland that it is not those who are absent who are right, but those who are present. the absent are wrong, and the absent should be ashamed. i think we should be proud that we did our duty. we must also be clear that it is important to reintroduce friday so that thursday's attractiveness is increased accordingly. (applause from the centre)
- voting is closed. composition of the acp-eu joint assembly - follow-up to opinions and resolutions - transmission of texts adopted during the present session - calendar of forthcoming sessions: see minutes.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 6.47 p.m.)
- madam president, there is one more thing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have had a vote on the comments and the reserve and then we have had a vote on it in a separate vote. i would ask you to inform us what we have decided on this point, because i think it is a little inappropriate to vote three times on the same subject until the result is the same. perhaps the rapporteur could help us a little, because it was agreed at the meeting with the services that we would vote together on the reserve and the comments.
- madam president! - what is it? first of all, as regards the question of languages, i have been informed that so far everything is in order, everything is available in all languages. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is not only a political question, but also an ethical one, and this is of the utmost importance here in the fiori report. we have always felt that the fiori report should be dealt with together with the two caudron reports. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if that were not the case, we too would have reservations about proceeding in such a way that everything remains on the agenda. but now that the debate with the council and the commission on the international situation is taking place on wednesday afternoon, we believe that the caudron and fiori reports belong together. but it is an ethical question, a political question, which now also requires an answer, and we would therefore be very grateful if this remained on the agenda. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. if the window of the european parliament is opening up a little more today, as mr maccormick has said, then mr maij-weggen and mr cashman have a great deal to do with it. thank you for your commitment and congratulations on the success you have achieved in our openness! i do not see myself as someone who is tapping in the dark, as mr bonde has put it, but i think we are on the way to the light. but with tomorrow's resolution we are also extending an invitation to the citizens of the european union, an invitation to take advantage of our openness, to look in, to look at us, if you will, at the maps, and even to look behind the scenes. of course, openness is of little use if no one is interested in our work. we do not wish to complain about the lack of interest shown by our citizens, our voters, but we would like to make an urgent request to them to make use of this new openness of the european parliament, because at least something is now possible with the technical possibilities that was completely impossible years ago. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. this is an opportunity and that is why we strongly support this report. i should like to say a few words to the representative of the council of ministers. unfortunately he is not here, but there is not much to say on the subject of transparency.
- mr president, mr carnero, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am also glad that the story of this legal contradiction will hopefully find a temporary end with the adoption of mr carnero's report tomorrow. thank you for your cooperation. i would also like to thank mr carnero for going into this matter, which at first glance seems very technical, and for actually working out the political dimension of the decision we are about to take. it is of course not entirely politically immaterial whether the chairs of the joint parliamentary committees and the interparliamentary delegations are appointed en bloc by this house, which is perhaps only a little thin, or whether each individual candidate in each joint committee or parliamentary delegation must be elected or appointed as a person. it is clear that we must have a procedure in the rules of procedure for the political balance of the composition of the delegations and the joint committees. it is also clear that the results obtained there must be implemented and that this can also be safeguarded by the rules of procedure. on the other hand, it is also clear that the plenary cannot be deprived of these important staff decisions. we must be aware that the joint committees and the interparliamentary delegations have very sensitive tasks in relation to our partner countries, and the appointment of certain persons to the chairs of such committees can be a political matter, can be considered impolite or even be seen as a provocation. it must therefore be possible for this plenary to retain sovereignty over who is actually appointed to the appropriate posts. it is not possible, therefore, that parliament should grant carte blanche to the filling of certain posts and that in the end it should be the individual groups or even the national delegations in those groups which decide on the person himself. parliament must retain the upper hand here. i think that is why we must ensure that when we reconstitute ourselves in january we at least know the names of those involved before we vote. that was not the case at the beginning of this parliamentary term. in the medium term, i think we must nevertheless consider whether we should not give responsibility to the joint committees and delegations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. they should also be responsible for deciding who their directors are in the long term.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i would like to thank the rapporteur, who has analysed this very technical report with great expertise and has suggested a number of editorial changes which we can all support. we also welcome and support the swedish initiative to develop the schengen acquis. but in some parts it has already been overtaken by reality. the rapid developments in european domestic and judicial policy since the terrorist attacks of 11 september 2001 have made this report and this document, at any rate, largely obsolete in the field of extradition proceedings. the council of ministers for justice and home affairs, meeting on 20 september, has already introduced a simplified procedure for the transfer of offenders and for the mutual recognition of judicial decisions. we welcome this further european unification also in the field of criminal law and criminal procedure. it will lead to an improved fight against crime on our continent and promote the european area of justice. i could spare myself further elaboration on the swedish initiative, especially since mr marinho has already mentioned the main points. i would like to make one further point. the provisions of the 1995 eu convention on the simplified extradition procedure and the 1996 eu convention on extradition between member states should also apply to iceland and norway as a further development of the schengen acquis, according to this proposal. that's it. however, neither belgium nor france, ireland, italy, luxembourg and the united kingdom have ratified any of these conventions. this is particularly scandalous because the candidate countries are also obliged to participate in the schengen acquis. the member states must finally be aware of their role as role models in this context, particularly as regards the implementation and ratification of union acts.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we have already voted on this report. the second reading is now really all about finding a solution to the opt-in/opt-out problem. that's why i want to talk about it. if you look at the various proposals now before parliament, i think they are different opt-out proposals. only the commission's proposal would be a real opt-in. this means that only the commission's proposal would ensure that citizens themselves can say whether they want to receive spamming, that is, advertising by electronic means, or have the choice to reject it consistently. all the other options, the various opt-out proposals, do not, in my view, guarantee this. i therefore cannot get much out of what is being sold here as a compromise, and i think that if we want to live up to the title of this proposal, namely to adopt a proposal here which has something to do with data protection, then we can only follow the line of the commission, support this proposal and reject the remaining proposals before parliament. nevertheless, i agree in principle with large parts of the text and find many of the points made there to be sensible. but that was voted on at the last meeting. now it's just opt-out and opt-in. i think that if we are speaking here in the name of data protection, we must also support the commission's proposal.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. tomorrow we shall vote on the cappato report for the second time. the positions have become closer, but not identical. the rapporteur has thus taken account of the concerns of the left wing of the house by allowing sms advertising to be sent in future only with the consent of the consumer. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has adopted by a large majority the compromise proposal, the socalled soft opt-out, which was supported by the rapporteur. only this proposal will support the interests of consumers without destroying jobs in europe on a massive scale. why would you do that? if parliament were to initially ban business to customer advertising in general, as mrs paciotti's proposal now proposes, companies would be sending their advertising from the usa or other third countries to the european union. the european consumer would gain nothing, but nothing at all, and the european market in electronic commerce would be weakened. we therefore want to leave the countries which have an opt-out system in place, to observe the developments and decide anew after two years. at the same time, the cappato proposal protects the consumer in three steps. firstly, he can register on so-called robinson lists, so that advertising to him is generally not allowed. secondly, e-mail advertising is linked to the consumer's ability to opt out of advertising from individual companies simply and free of charge. thirdly, e-mail advertising will be recognisable as such in the e-mail inbox and will be easy and free to delete on a case-by-case basis. the latter is already possible today with providers such as aol - my colleague van velzen will certainly refer to this in a moment - but this does not in any way lead to a monopoly position of aol. such a claim is utter nonsense, for today anyone can download such a spam-detection program from the internet, no matter what internet service provider he is otherwise contracted with. aol itself was opposed to such a scheme. i would like to inform you that i support this compromise proposal by mr cappato with a clear majority.
- mr president, i take the floor in place of mrs ruth hieronymi, who should have been here but is unfortunately ill. i am very pleased to be able to do so and i congratulate the rapporteur. it's not often that someone here actually talks about something that they really understand as much as the filmmaker himself. i would like to congratulate you on your new job. i think your report is a much-needed boost. as you have said, the market share of european films in the cinemas of the european union is at an all-time low of only 22.5%. the dominance of the us film industry is also reflected in the far too high trade deficit of €6.8 billion. the situation in the applicant countries is even more dramatic. in addition to the clear dominance of american films, there is also a problem which we must not conceal here: we often talk about promoting european films. but many people think only of their own national film and not of the film of their neighbour. because even the films of our neighbours, european films, are not sufficiently seen in the neighbouring regions. it is urgent that the commission and the council finally come up with a plan to make the european film industry competitive. this is also a sector where there is money to be made. the americans are making us believe that. maybe one day these gentlemen will wake up and do more here. the main deficits are in the distribution and marketing of our films and, of course, in chronic undercapitalisation. i am therefore very pleased that we - parliament, the commission and the council - have taken up these two areas of marketing and distribution in the media plus programme and are trying to find a solution. i am also pleased, of course, that the european investment bank, at the instigation of the commissioner, is also doing something about this and is providing risk capital for the realisation of audiovisual projects. so i think we have done a lot in this area, but we can do a lot more. i also think it is good that we are getting tax advantages at the level of the member states, that we can do something to enable filmmakers from one country to have access to funds and subsidies from other countries. so it is possible. i believe that this will also encourage investment in the infrastructure of independent cinemas under the i2i initiative, as we are calling for in this report. i believe that the expansion of cinemas in economically weaker regions within the framework of the european structural funds can also be helpful. there is much to be said. i do not entirely agree with paragraph 7, which is that we should oblige broadcasters to reserve a certain proportion of the airtime for non-national films. this is of course met with great resistance from the broadcasting organizations. we will discuss this in the review of the directive on television without frontiers and perhaps find a way out. once again, congratulations to you!
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i should also like to begin by thanking my colleague, mr maat. i think he has been very realistic about this issue, because an emotional approach, i think, is no longer useful after many years of discussing the transport of animals. when we talk about transport, nobody talks about the kitten in the hand luggage on the plane, and nobody talks about the dog on the leather leash in the intercity, and certainly not the racehorse in the special van on the highway. no, in the maat report we are talking about the welfare of animals for slaughter on their transport routes. i have been here for a long time, and i would therefore like to say to the commissioner: on paper, i think we have been developing this subject for years, and we have been demanding more and more. however, we are all alarmed by the often untenable situations in individual cases, where controls are far too rare. it is not only the animal welfare groups, but also producers and consumers who want better transport conditions. in the reports and amendments we call for skilled personnel, suitable transport vehicles with sufficient beds, ventilation facilities, drinking and feeding supplies and limited transport times for slaughter animals of up to eight hours. i think it is very important and particularly worth supporting the proposal to abolish the payment of export refunds for live animals. there are objections that ultimately claim that this is a market disturbance. the argument of the shaft is even brought up. i could smile a little about that, because that is already possible in the eu. it would be better if the meat was transported afterwards. commissioner, i think that the most sensitive part of the human body is very often the wallet. more inspections, more controls, high penalties and loss of licence for infringements would bring more effective improvements for all of us.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission's report on animal transport, which we are discussing this evening, has confirmed what television images have shown time and again: the brutal treatment of animals, the non-compliance with the time limit, the overloading of transport vehicles and numerous other violations of the existing animal transport regulations - and this has not been uncommon. this state of affairs is no longer tenable. the european public is right to demand a rapid solution to this problem. however, i must also make it clear that the european animal transport rules, if properly applied, already today guarantee a high level of animal welfare. the fundamental problem is that, as the commission also stresses in its report, the rules currently in force are not applied sufficiently in most member states. in addition to the problem of transposing the directive into national law, the main reason is the lack of controls by the member states and the far too weak penalties for infringements. the main criticism in this matter is therefore directed at the member states. i think that the community's control policy should be fundamentally reviewed here, because there are similar problems in other areas of veterinary control. i would like to make two further points. the abolition of the export refund for slaughter animals contained in this resolution was already decided by parliament in the 2002 budgetary procedure and has long been demanded by the social democrats. in the past, parliament has already succeeded in making export refunds pay for meat exports in preference to exports of slaughtered animals, in order to deprive exports of slaughtered animals of the economic incentive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but even that is not enough, and export refunds for slaughter animals should be reduced to zero. secondly, the motion for a resolution calls for a maximum transport time of eight hours for slaughter animals, and this is also a longstanding demand of the socialist group. the general maximum duration should no longer be in place in the future, and the situation of remote areas and islands was also taken into account. we are also proposing limited derogations from the maximum transport time, which we very much welcome. i would like to conclude by thanking mr maat, on behalf of the socialist group, for the constructive cooperation which i believe will continue in the future.
- mr president, i have to go. the report on the protection of animals during transport has generated a great deal of public interest. various associations, but above all citizens, have been following with great interest the way in which the european parliament has taken countermeasures to prohibit the intolerable conditions in transport. the report is concerned with preventing the endangerment and ultimately the cruel treatment of animals during transport by legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. social expectations are a crucial element in the specific features of the european agricultural model. the bse crisis and the consequences of the destruction of animals by foot-and-mouth disease have positively called into question what has been achieved so far. an estimated 250 million farm animals are transported through the union each year. the pointlessness of these transports or their necessity has been hotly debated by all parties for years. the existing basic regulation already contains several practical and legal provisions for the transport of animals. it is obvious that national authorities do not always act in this way. this shows how weak the animal welfare clause really is. there is a lack of seriousness, transparency and honesty in this area. for example, if wild rabbits are caught in nets in poland and transported to the ec in animal-torture containers so that marksmen can spend their leisure time, then this has nothing to do with sport and certainly nothing to do with animal welfare. i would be glad if the commissioner could say that this is not true. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the present report is therefore based on cooperation rather than confrontation between agriculture and animal welfare.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. once again we are dealing with the subject of the protection of animals during transport. we are dealing with a continuous burner and i support the report presented by my colleague mr maat without reservation. we all know that there are already several directives in the european union and implementing legislation in the member states. we are all in favour of comprehensive animal welfare and against transport which unnecessarily tortures animals, especially those for slaughter. if all these positive laws were implemented and controlled everywhere, we would not need this debate. but it's not! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. but we should not forget that there are some positive things to report in this area as well. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the transport of animals is not subject to any restrictions. the idea of slaughtering in the immediate vicinity of the production site is also implemented in many cases. this is a point i very much support: slaughter as close to the farm as possible. modern preservation techniques allow meat to be exported to distant regions. in the case of animal transport, we rightly call for breaks with watering and feeding of the animals. in future, we will also have to consider how to minimise the stress of animals during the loading and unloading breaks. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. transport, space, handling, ventilation, temperature and loading and unloading procedures, when done properly, have the greatest effect on improving animal welfare. this report contributes to that and i ask for broad support.
the commission. mr president, mr president of the court of auditors, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the court of auditors! this report by the court of auditors on the 2000 financial year is an encouragement and a support for the commission and it is especially a support for the commissioner responsible for the budget. i would like to thank the court of auditors, you, mr president, the members of the court, the staff of the court for the 2000 report and, in particular, for the special reports, which, with their very specific recommendations, are of great importance for the work of the commission. i would like to express my particular satisfaction at the court's positive remarks, at the court's support for two measures which are particularly close to my heart. this is particularly true in the field of foreign policy, in the reconstruction of kosovo. the court of auditors has examined the accounting and financial management of the kosovo reconstruction agency and has come to a very positive conclusion. the agency had succeeded in achieving most of the high-level objectives and the efficiency of the agency's administration and budget management was to be highly appreciated. i had been very active in the 2000 budget in ensuring that sufficient funds were made available for reconstruction in kosovo. parliament too, and here in particular mr bourlanges - i would like to address him here as the then chief rapporteur for the 2000 budget - had been very active in ensuring that sufficient funds were available. the budget for the reconstruction agency in kosovo was then even increased during the 2000 financial year because of the good work it had done. it is simply very gratifying - and you, mr bourlanges, will be delighted - to see the court of auditors give such a good report on measures for which it has been particularly committed. of course, this is a very important message for the taxpayers: the money in kosovo is well spent, and it is spent economically. i stress this also because there is a very intense debate in the media about where the european union and the commission stand on the common foreign and security policy. this is a very concrete example of joint action in foreign policy and a very concrete example of how well the result can be achieved if we all pull together. the second point on which i would like to speak personally and on which i would like to thank the court for its support is the budgetary regulation. the revision of the financial regulation is a very large undertaking and the court of auditors has delivered its opinion very quickly and has been of great help to the commission not only in the formal opinion but also in the many meetings at the technical and administrative level. this may sound a little dry, but the fact is that the financial regulation defines in concrete terms what the budgetary process looks like, who plays what role, who has what powers of control, whether, for example, budgetary adjustments can be made quickly and where they can be made to accommodate changes during the financial year. i am very grateful to the court of auditors for having made it clear how important it is that all financial regimes in specific sectors comply with budgetary principles, with the principles of sound budgetary management. i am very grateful to parliament for the amendments which you have tabled before the summer break. the new version of the proposal has thus - and i can say this quite clearly and firmly - gained a great deal of quality. the commission has now done its homework, the court of auditors has done its homework on this point, parliament has done its homework on this point to a very large extent, and i think it is indeed time for parliament to formally express its opinion so that the council can then do its homework as quickly as possible. i would now like to address some of the areas where the court has made very critical remarks. this is the case, for example, with regard to the implementation of the control regulation for the structural funds. the responsibility for monitoring the legality of the use of structural fund funds lies primarily with the member states. but it is also true that the commission has overall responsibility for implementing the budget and is responsible for ensuring that control regulations are clearly formulated and enforceable, and that it does not happen that virtually every member state can present its own interpretation of the control regulations and act on it. the member states are the most frequent complaints about the complexity of the control procedures for the structural funds. the lawsuit goes so far as to say: 'in future we want the structural funds to be a kind of lump sum transfer.' but that is not the way the commission is supporting, and i assume that this is also the way parliament is supporting. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. but one thing is certain: if we want to keep it that way, we must work on simplifying the regulation. i agree with the court of auditors' plea for a simpler system, because then the probability of error is reduced, because control is increased at the same time. the court also raised this criticism in the context of the sapard programme, which provides assistance to the applicant countries in the agricultural sector. we shall be debating the progress reports on the whole process of enlargement in the commission this afternoon. the financial control is one of the most important chapters, and also the assessment of what progress has been made in the candidate countries or what problems still exist. but in the sapard area we have the problem that of the more than 1 billion euro available for 2000 and 2001, only 16 million euro have actually been paid out so far. this is of course a very bad result, and i accept the criticism of the court of auditors. this must also be discussed in the commission. the complexity of the procedure must not lead to the fact that the measures are not implemented at all. so we must find a balance here in the strict controls in the applicant countries. this must not, however, lead to implementation being prevented. the court of auditors has recorded a large budget surplus of eur 11.6 billion in 2000. it argues that a surplus should not be booked in the course of the following year but should, if possible, lead to a reduced payment by the member states in the current financial year, which means that the budget would then be adjusted downwards in the course of the year. i am sure that the council and the finance ministers will take this very positively, but i think that we must consider more carefully what is the right course to take. over $3 billion of the budget surplus last year came from increased revenues. this increase in revenue was due to the fact that last year's growth figures were actually better than initially assumed. but the official figures weren't available until november. several hundred million euros of the surplus came from real savings in agriculture because of the favourable market developments. i think it's a very positive thing when we don't have to spend money. but that's not going to be decided until the end of the year. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the budgetary resources allocated to the structural funds are used to finance the necessary measures. i would like to make it clear again that i do not see it as a negative thing if at the end of the year or as proposed by the court, possibly during the current year funds can be returned to the member states if the money is not needed. it is also true, of course - and i probably agree with some of the comments made here in parliament - that we must distinguish between not needing the money to meet the objective or not being able to implement the money because of budgetary execution deficits, administrative deficits. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i also agree with the court of auditors' comments on evaluation, namely the importance of evaluation for a good budgetary process. the court of auditors has certified the accounts to be in order, that is to say, that the books are in order, and that the revenue side of the budget is in order, the commitments are sound and the administrative expenditure is sound. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity. so did the commission make too few changes in 2000 to improve financial management? i would like to quote the court of auditors, which states that many reforms were only initiated in 2000 and that these reforms are only gradually becoming successful. i cannot now list all the measures we have taken since then, but i would like to stress some of them. for example, in the human resources department. the overall staffing of the financial management has been strengthened, firstly by a change of personnel within the commission to strengthen the financial unit in the various directorates-general. parliament has allocated additional posts for 2001. we are in the middle of a selection process which will result in 250 candidates being placed on a list to strengthen financial and personnel management. the second point i would like to mention is the training measures. the commission's reforms have led to a significant increase in the need for training. in total, 2 800 officials have already received training in financial management from the budget directorate-general and a further 1 700 will receive training in the coming months. we have also criticised the technical assistance offices on many occasions in the past. of the 126 contracts with the bats, as we call them for short, 93 contracts will be terminated by the end of 2001. i think this is an important point which has been achieved thanks to parliament's pressure, and we are continuing to decentralize, for example, in the external field, so that we can also make greater use of local knowledge in implementing a budget decision. we will decide this afternoon in the commission on further new management systems, on networks of national agencies. we have adopted a comprehensive package of improved human resources policies a few weeks ago. in the summer of this year i presented the report on the measures taken by the commission to combat fraud and the measures proposed to the legislator, ranging from money laundering schemes to customs measures to the proposal for a european financial prosecutor. there is much to be done, but much has been achieved. the commission is not only active in well over 100 countries. it helps after natural disasters, it provides humanitarian aid in crisis and war zones, it is active in some traditional sectors, such as parts of agriculture, but it also provides funds for many innovative measures promoted by parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we are networking researchers and research results, co-financing high-speed railways or student exchanges. this is a really broad range of spending areas, and it's nothing rigid at all. the programmes change, the tasks change, the world changes. this requires all of us to face new challenges constantly, and all the institutions of the european union to be constantly open to new challenges. we want to make good european policy, that is to say, to learn from mistakes in order to make good measures even better measures. the court of auditors' reports provide a fundamental support for this. i thank the court, the outgoing members of the court of auditors, the permanent members of the court of auditors and, in particular, the president. under your presidency, mr karlsson, the method of declaring reliability has been further developed and a great many special reports have been produced with very specific and valuable recommendations. under your presidency, there has been an improvement in the understanding of financial management and, i believe, also in the understanding of the institutions among themselves. for that, a very special thank you. (applause from the centre)
chairman of the committee on budgetary control. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. today you, as president of the court, together with the members of the court still in office, are presenting your annual report to the european parliament for the last time, because you are leaving, as are a number of other members of the court. i should like to take this opportunity to thank you personally and the outgoing members of the court, both on my own behalf and on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, for the years of good and effective cooperation and mutual trust which have existed under your presidency and also under the presidency of professor friedmann, who is also outgoing. there have been differences of opinion at times, but i think we have always found a good way of working together and we have done, above all, control work which ultimately benefits the taxpayer. so, thank you very much again. today's court of auditors report shows that we are making progress again. i just want to make a few points. the most striking feature is the high surplus of own resources: eur 11.6 billion more than 14% of the budget remained. the finance ministers are happy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what are the objectives that we have set for ourselves that have not been achieved? i think the commission is well advised if it is working with corrective and supplementary budgets in time to spend the money that is there to achieve the objectives. the complexity and weight of the legislation and the resulting abundance of controls are a concern for parliament as well as for the court of auditors and, as mrs schreyer has just said, for the commission. we must urgently simplify the system so that the citizens can access the subsidies and not say: 'it is so complicated. i don't want any money from the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the controls are not excessive but effective and that they lead to good results and have a preventive effect. the last one is the declaration of reliability, the das. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. again, no specific figure was given by the court. we, as a parliament, had actually insisted on it. the court now wishes to present a refined method for drawing up this statement of assurance. we are happy to cooperate, but we must also see and analyse: where are the errors in the member states and where are they in the commission? she's the one who's ultimately responsible. she must accept that responsibility. i thank you again, mr president karlsson, for the excellent cooperation and i wish all the outgoing members and you personally all the best for the future. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the court of auditors' report is always something of a kick-off for the discharge procedure, which we hope to conclude - but not always - in april of the following year. after a few years of working through the old problems which have always been the subject of specific media attention, i think we are now coming closer to the systematic problems, where the problem is less the spectacular individual cases but the question of whether something is wrong with the systems. i would like to return to the three points which were raised most frequently in the debate. the first is the high budget deficit. we will have to ask ourselves in the discharge procedure whether this is due to the caution that officials exercise before they write anything down and spend money, or whether it is due to overcomplicated regulations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am open to a rebuttal, but this is a question we have to settle. the second point is the question of the declaration of reliability which has just been raised, and mr bösch has pointed out the dilemma. we have to ask ourselves: are there any more reliable instruments, or are we treating this declaration of reliability as the council does every year, namely as a kind of water status report, but without any further obligation? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if the latter were the case, this would be progress and could indeed be considered as a merit of the commission. in any case, it is their task to increase the pressure on the member states, and we will be happy to help!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. this second directive on combating money laundering in europe has a long history. you know that the money laundering legislation in the member states of the european union has its origin less in the will of the national legislators than in the fact that in 1991 the european union had already launched a first money laundering directive, which then was the initial trigger for the vote and decision on a number of national money laundering laws. however, this 1991 directive had only a minimum standard. this minimum standard required drug offences to be recorded in the criminal records catalogue and, with regard to the professions that were required to participate in the fight against money laundering, only banks and financial service providers were obliged to do so. this has led to wide variations in implementation across europe. there have been member states which have gone far beyond this minimum standard, and there have been member states which have only implemented this minimum standard. we have already held a major hearing on this subject in the european parliament's committee on internal affairs back in 1995. the result of this consultation was that this different standard of implementation leads to major problems in the fight against money laundering in europe, because cooperation between member states also did not work sufficiently. the consequence for us in this house was already then - and there have been two reports on this, one in 1996 and another in 1998 - that we asked the commission to come forward with a proposal for a second directive with the aim of raising the standard in europe, in particular by extending the register of criminal records and also by making other occupational groups subject to the obligation. we have already mentioned the professions of luxury goods dealers, gambling casinos, auctioneers, but also lawyers, notaries and other legal professions. the commission then made its proposal in 1999, but in our view it was not sensitive enough, at least as regards the legal profession. you know that since the charter of nice at the latest, but also in national constitutional systems, there has been a right of citizens to legal advice and representation. this can only be effectively ensured if those citizens are also able to share all information with their legal adviser and can be sure that he will then keep it confidential and not call the prosecutor the next day and pass on the information. the european parliament therefore wanted to maintain this right at first reading, but at the same time to combat money laundering in europe effectively. this has continued until the conciliation procedure and i think the compromise that has been reached is a good compromise. the council has made concessions in order to allow member states, in accordance with their legal traditions, to continue to subject legal advice to the obligation of professional secrecy. the european parliament, on the other hand, has also given in by not requiring this regulation but leaving it to the discretion of the national legislators. article 6 (3) therefore provides for an option allowing all member states to ensure that the obligation of professional secrecy in the field of legal advice is maintained in accordance with their national legal traditions. the same procedure was followed for the other points in dispute. there too, good compromises have been found. the issue of tip-off, i.e. the prohibition on passing on information to one's own clients, was also resolved by a compromise within the meaning of article 6 (3) - i.e. an option scheme. the question of what to do with the information provided there and now in the possession of the national law enforcement authorities has been left to the national legislator. to sum up, all the groups involved said at the end that they were not 100% satisfied with this compromise and that it was not ideal, but that they could live with it. that is precisely the nature of a good compromise, and that is why i would recommend that the house adopt this proposal from the conciliation committee and thus make a substantial contribution to improving the fight against money laundering in europe. this is an essential factor, particularly in the context of current events, including the fight against terrorism. on the other hand, we have also succeeded in ensuring that the fundamental rights of citizens are preserved and that there is no need to interfere with long-standing national legal traditions, some of which are also constitutional in nature. all in all, a good compromise. i'm asking for your approval! (applause from the centre)
mr president, i speak for a minority. the new recital 16 states that the obligation to disclose exists 'if the legal adviser is involved in the money laundering operations, if the legal advice is provided for the purpose of money laundering and if the lawyer knows that the client is using the legal advice for the purpose of money laundering'. this is too much! that is why i am against it. this is what destroys the essence of consultation. this means a second thing which has not yet been done in our legal systems: in all three cases the legal adviser, the lawyer, has been found guilty. he's been convicted. so he's gonna have to turn himself in. this has not yet been the case in the west or the east. i'm also pretty sure that the stone age legal systems didn't provide for that. the spirit of the world has chosen the commission for unimaginable reasons to inscribe for the first time in a legal system this principle that one must denounce oneself. i cannot approve of that! i think of lessing, who said: "if the light of the enlightenment is still a small wick, there is at least a glimmer of hope in the world". they have made the same mistake as with olaf legislation, which has finally made its way into the offices of members of parliament. you'll be stopped there. this will not stand up to constitutional review either. i said at the time that the european union as a whole had become involved in a regulatory bloodbath in connection with the olaf legislation. we are seeing a similar phenomenon here. i am extremely sorry that the prosecution has shown little backbone in this matter.
commission. – mr president, on behalf of the commission, i welcome very much the agreement which has been reached by parliament and the council. delegations in the conciliation procedure on the proposal for a second money laundering directive have given their support to this compromise proposal, and the commission is duly appreciative. i should like in particular to thank the rapporteur, mr lehne, and also vice-president provan for co-chairing the conciliation meeting, for their determined efforts to reach an agreement which, as i have said, is very much welcomed by the commission. the commission proposal to update and extend the 1991 anti-money-laundering directive – which parliament called for as early as 1995, as was mentioned quite rightly this morning – has raised difficult and sensitive issues of which the commission is fully aware. not least, the involvement of the professions in the anti-money-laundering defences has attracted the attention of many people interested in this subject and, in particular, members of this parliament. the commission believes that the joint text agreed in the conciliation procedure constitutes a good compromise, taking account of the legitimate concerns of both parliament and the council. the fight against money laundering is an essential aspect of the fight against serious and organised crime. since the tragic events of 11 september, it has also become an integral part of the fight against the financing of terrorism. the proposal before us now, to strengthen the european union's anti-money-laundering defences, has aroused great interest in the world outside the european union, not least in the so-called financial action task force which is in the process of updating its 40 recommendations. so to sum up, i commend the joint text to parliament and i look forward to the earliest possible adoption and implementation of this important new directive.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. this is also a very important report. what's the matter? the point is that we have an ever more integrated single market in europe, but as we all know, it also has a number of shortcomings. the commission, parliament and the council have been working for many years to achieve common legislation on certain aspects, particularly in the area of consumer transactions. in its communication on contract law, which it has presented and to which this report refers, the commission has given a very comprehensive account of what already exists in the common legal framework of the european union, including a list of all the directives that already exist in this field. but if you look at these guidelines in more detail, you will find that they are not always consistent in themselves. it is quite conceivable that there is a contractual structure concluded between a consumer and a seller in which there is the possibility that up to three different withdrawal statements with different withdrawal periods have to be signed by the buyer because different directives, such as the distance selling directive and other directives, address very different deadlines. i think it is obvious that this has nothing to do with consumer protection and that it is nonsense. it is therefore necessary that this common set of rules should also be consolidated and summarised and should lead to a common outcome. the reasons for this are many. the reason for this is that within the european institutions, very different directorates-general, committees and ministerial councils were responsible for the individual aspects and, of course, always looked at this from their isolated point of view and then came to different results. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. i think it is very good that, following the tampere decisions, the commission now intends to adopt this holistic approach in the future, as does parliament. this is also imperative, because the number of crossborder transactions in europe is increasing. there are two main factors: one factor will certainly be the introduction of the euro next year. another factor is modern technology - i am referring only to electronic commerce. in future, when you order goods and other things via electronic commerce, you will no longer know, or at least often do not know, where the contracting party on the other side is actually based. this is what leads to the inevitable growth of crossborder trade. i think that is why we need to develop a broader common set of facts and a broader common set of community law. the current directive on electronic commerce, which we have supported in this house, is not, as we know today, an ideal solution. since the principle of country of origin applies and the consumer rights principle applies on the other hand, it may in practice lead to the fact that, for example, a court in cologne has to apply irish law in parallel with german law. i would venture to say that this will lead to very significant problems in the case of minor litigation and in the mass legal business. this shows the need for us to develop a broader common legal framework in the future. my report now proposes - and this is also what many scientific groups have been calling for for a long time - that the commission should continue its work in the form of an action plan, so to speak, over a period of several years. the end of this road should be a set of rules, at least for crossborder transactions, which are to a large extent common throughout the european union. i believe that this is necessary in the interests of transparency, not only for consumers but also for traders, and also in the interests of legal certainty, legal practicability and the application of the law. i therefore ask the house to give its assent to the proposal from the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs on this report on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to civil and commercial matters. this is also the starting point for further work by the commission. i know that the council is also dealing with this issue at the moment, in parallel with us, and that it intends to deal with this issue at the laeken summit. i think that everyone in europe has realised that this is a high priority and that this work must be carried out. to put a little pressure, i think we need to adopt this action plan as well.
mr president, commissioner byrne, mr lehne, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i wondered how many legal transactions in the european union have been concluded in the last 15 minutes of this debate. is it one million, is it 10 million, is it 100 million? i think it's definitely a high number. we are moving in the realm of mass business, although this term may not be particularly attractive in one or the other translation. only a fraction of these transactions have certainly been concluded across borders, and it is certainly true that these transactions have been concluded from lapland to sicily, from scotland to upper franconia in completely different traditions and with completely different customs. we must therefore be aware that this is a very sensitive matter and that, for all our ambition, we must proceed with caution and with caution. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i think it is therefore reasonable that the commission here in its option 2 proposes that we first draw up general legal principles. one scientist has so aptly pointed out that the problem with legal harmonization is not the rules but the exceptions. we are also aware of this in our work, when it comes to guarantee periods for purchases, interest on late payments, money laundering or the takeover directive. the general principles are very quickly agreed, but it is very difficult to establish uniformly which groups should be given special treatment, who needs special protection. we must therefore set our priorities wisely. the transnational aspects should be given priority. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the community's financial interests. the courts must cooperate better, and legal aid must be guaranteed. i believe that these are very concrete, practical steps which we can take practically overnight and thus help citizens a great deal in the legal field in the internal market. i think we should also include in these considerations the idea of working towards a european law which the contracting parties can choose. they can therefore apply european law, but they can also choose their own national law. i think that would also be a kind of soft harmonization, the introduction of a convergence process, which would perhaps be better than regulations, mr maccormick, which are simply being rolled over from one day to the next, as mrs wallis has said. i would also like to say that mr lehne's draft does not, of course, repeat the demands we made in 1989 and 1994. we have asked for the drafting of a european civil code, and this request does not appear in the texts adopted by the committee, nor in the motions for resolutions, as far as i have seen. we're on a good, sensible, careful path here. i thank the rapporteur and those who helped us in the hearing for their help. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i agree with the rapporteur on the whole and can only mention one or two aspects in a rather disjointed way in the short time available. what we need is first of all coherent, homogeneous legislation at the level of the european union. this is often not the case because terms are used which have a different meaning in other legal texts. in general, there is little scientific research on community law in this sense. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's the one aspect. the other aspect i would like to mention is the relationship with private international law. i think that mr lehne's report has been a little too paternalistic. private international law can make a decisive contribution to overcoming the difficulties of crossborder litigation, and as a rule - and i am very careful to say this - private international law is not, at any rate as far as legal culture and the quality of legal texts are concerned, subordinate to community law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we must also examine how far we want to preserve international private law. the next point is the national regulations. i don't think we should get carried away. that's going to be very difficult. i think that the best way forward is to have a convincing european union legislation.
commission. – mr president, i welcome this opportunity to congratulate parliament and especially the committee on legal affairs and its rapporteur, mr lehne, on its timely report on the approximation of the civil and commercial laws of the member states. given the forthcoming european council in december in laeken, for which this report will be of relevance, i am particularly pleased that the european parliament is discussing this report here today. the european council will therefore have at its disposal not only the commission's communication and the council's report, but also the report by the european parliament, which handles this important issue in the necessary depth. the commission also very much welcomes the report as parliament's response to the commission's consultation process, launched by the communication on european contract law. it is absolutely essential that the commission should get as much feedback and input as possible from the other ec institutions so that it can establish its future approach in the area of contract law. one fundamental question confronts the commission, as well as parliament and the council as the two branches of the european legislature. should we continue with the existing piecemeal approach of harmonising european contract law in a very sector-specific way, as has been done for the past 20 years, or should we adopt a new approach? it is obvious that if the existing approach corresponds to the needs of the european union then we should continue it. if, however, there are problems despite, or possibly even because of, the existing approach, then we should be brave enough to change it. it was in order to get a reply to this fundamental question that the commission adopted its communication on european contract law. the choice of our future approach is highly important for the smooth functioning of the internal market and the participation of consumers, small- and medium-sized enterprises and all other economic operators, as well as for the uniform application of community law. we have already received a large number of constructive comments and reactions which confirm that the commission's initiative is of great interest to all stakeholders. of course not all the reactions point in the same direction, but this is inevitable with such a complex subject where so many issues are raised and different options need to be considered. the reactions will be examined in depth by the commission. obviously the commission will attach great importance to parliament's response to our communication which, once you have adopted it, will be very carefully analysed. the commission will decide what suggestions it will make in the light of the reports from parliament and the council, the possible reaction from the european council and the responses to our consultation process. i understand that the council may ask the commission to report to the community institutions and the public on the consultation process, together with any observations and recommendations if necessary in the form of a green or white paper, not later than 31 december 2002. the european parliament's proposal for an action plan is particularly relevant in this context. the commission has taken due note of the ambitious deadlines for specific steps to be taken. in conclusion, i would like to express the commission's thanks for the careful analysis that has gone into this report. if there are problems for the internal market and the uniform application of community law which need to be tackled, it is obvious that whatever line we take this will be a longer term project of considerable importance. so, this is certainly not the last time that we will debate questions of european contract law in this house. i submitted the commission communication to the college, together with my colleagues mr vitorino, mr bolkestein and mr liikanen. at the last council meeting on the internal market and consumer affairs, i emphasised my strong personal interest in this matter, not only because i am convinced of its value but also because of my own professional background as a practising barrister and as international commercial arbitrator. for those who have expressed concern about the survival of the common law system: that is the system that i have worked in myself for 27 years and i have some attachment to it. perhaps with that background it will be able to make sure that these issues and sensitivities are taken fully into account. this is an ambitious project but it is a feasible project. when i worked on contracts where arbitration was needed or on dispute had to be resolved, the "applicable law" was – lex mercatoria. – what is that? those who have to enter into contracts with a term like that will feel perfectly comfortable with something a bit more rigid and rigorous, which is what all of us in this house are aiming at. my colleagues and i are therefore looking forward to constructive dialogue with parliament and the other ec institutions in the future.
commission. – mr president, i am honoured to make this declaration on behalf of the commission on the arrests in laos pdr. the commission welcomes the release of the five members of the transnational radical party who had been arrested on 26 october in vientiane, laos pdr, after staging a peaceful demonstration. we are particularly happy to see mr dupuis back. their release followed 14 days of detention, during which the commission and eu member states made frequent contacts with the laotian authorities to ensure a rapid resolution of the situation. at a public trial on 9 november, the detainees were found guilty of violating laotian law. they were given suspended sentences before being released and expelled from the country. in relation to this incident, the commission notes that the human rights situation in laos pdr, including the case of the laotian students who organised a demonstration for freedom and democracy in laos pdr in october 1999, continues to give cause for concern. the commission, together with the diplomatic missions of the eu member states, is following the human rights situation in the country closely and participating in all eu démarches to the government of laos pdr on these issues. included in these issues are deficiencies in the rule of law. there are still a number of flaws in the administration of justice, notably cases of arbitrary arrest, lengthy pre-trial detention and lack of guarantees of due process. many of these problems are exacerbated by the poor training of people working in the judicial system and the commission has therefore offered assistance to the government of laos pdr, both in reforming the system and in developing its human resources.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the arbitrary arrest of a member of the european parliament and a number of his comrades in vientiane has put a heavy strain on relations between the european union and laos. in the aftermath, both the institutions of the european union and the states concerned have done everything possible to press for the release of those arrested. i would like to thank the commission, the foreign affairs committee chaired by mr elmar brok and all the colleagues who have been involved in this matter. the prisoners have been released. the italian government has also been very helpful in sending a member of the government to vientiane. this action was ultimately successful. i would also like to express my gratitude to the ambassador of the lao people's republic, who has been available for talks here and in brussels and who has obviously also exerted a helpful influence. laos has been a one-party state since 1975, which means it is not a democracy in our sense. where there is no democracy and no freedom of choice, there is generally no rule of law. that too has become clear. the european union has nevertheless concluded a cooperation agreement with laos, under which it is helping to build up the country and promote democracy and the rule of law. the asean delegation was able to see this year that this aid is indeed useful. there are very good projects in which the european union is involved. i would like to make it clear that despite the unacceptable behaviour of the authorities in laos, we remain committed to cooperation and our willingness to help. i also realize that our ideas of democracy and the rule of law don't necessarily have to be adopted by every other country on the planet. in fact, we sometimes have to ask ourselves whether the european parliament is really called upon to lecture all the countries of the world with its index finger raised about what democracy and the rule of law are. but we have our principles, and they were violated in this case. we shall continue to use them. but we are prepared to continue to help this country, one of the poorest people on earth, and to contribute to its prospects of prosperity. but we also want democracy and the rule of law to be respected in laos. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not the provision of public services is a service of general interest, whether economic or non-economic, in the provision of which the public and the state have a special interest. in the various member states of the european union, these include publicly available energy, water, waste disposal, transport, telecommunications, postal services, media, financial and insurance services, a basic social, educational and training system, social services, external and internal security, justice and reporting. you can see from this wide range how far-reaching this subject is. why are we dealing with this issue? because some member states, especially germany, have questioned the competence of the european commission to take individual decisions under article 86 of the ec treaty, as well as the adoption of secondary community law, such as the transparency directive. the concern of the länder and local authorities that competition law will massively reduce their powers and destroy the network of mature and well-established welfare structures is, in my view, unjustified. we are today with parliament to adopt an opinion on the forthcoming decisions of the heads of state or government on laeken, and i would like to take this opportunity to thank the honourable members very warmly for their cooperative cooperation on this matter. we have spent over a year in hearings and many discussions trying to find common ground. the eu commission's stance on this issue has been objective and i believe successful. i would also like to thank the commission, which is obviously not here yet. the commission has given a comprehensive description of the community legal framework. it has set out the principles of neutrality, freedom of design and proportionality which we support, and it has proposed on its own initiative that the question of how to achieve greater legal clarity should be resolved by means of exemption regulations and individual decisions. that's one of the open questions. while a number of colleagues prefer an amendment to article 16, we have agreed to propose a framework directive based on article 95 of the internal market, in which all open questions can be decided by the codecision procedure, not as a council regulation or as a commission act, but by the codecision procedure as a directive, so that we can also have full co-decision on these frontier questions of competition law. the discussion focused on two main points: to what extent are structures which have developed traditionally or which are to be opened up to free markets and competition preserved? secondly, to what extent can the state subsidize social services? what if there's a difference between public and private companies? what social services are covered by eu law? it does not cover all activities of a non-economic nature and purely domestic situations. what does that entail? ec competition law requires the involvement of undertakings, and in this case it is articles 87-89 state aid control. the internal market rules relate to economic activities, in particular the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the ec competition rules and the internal market rules are not applicable to purely domestic situations. this is particularly relevant for regional and local services. if they are applicable, there are exceptions, such as the de minimis rule, such as aid for culture, such as exemption regulations for small and mediumsized enterprises and others. that is why the european commission has given us a framework, which we generally support, if we want to achieve legal clarity on the issues we have discussed openly and if we declare the free market and competition in the market to be a principle. i would ask the house to support the compromise we have reached in the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data-processing techniques. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i should like to congratulate mr langen on his excellent report and to limit myself to one area of a special situation in the provision of public services, namely the question of the cultural dimension in the audiovisual sector, that is to say, public television and public radio. i have always welcomed the introduction of private television. i continue to welcome it, but i am also convinced that we must still proceed from the necessity of a public service broadcasting contract. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important one. the dual broadcasting system has proved its worth. it would be pointless to subject public service broadcasting to a constant justification for each individual programme. a balanced programme also needs room for manoeuvre here. it is also certain that we cannot finance a public-law copy of the private providers with taxes and fees. the public authorities need room for manoeuvre, but they also need guidelines and clarifications on their mandate. the commission's communication is a welcome step in this direction. however, it should also be clarified that the nature of the transmission terrestrial or video streaming cannot be decisive for the public service. the main issues are the objectives to be protected, our democratic principles, pluralism, free access to culture and technological progress. of course, the protection of users, particularly minors, must also be guaranteed. the commission, as the guardian of the treaties, must therefore confine itself to monitoring abuses under competition law. the commission must continue to respect and protect the competences of the member states in the formulation of its content. the regulatory competence must therefore remain with the member states, and it is therefore also for the member states to determine the financial and organisational structure. i welcome the fact that the commission and the council are trying to find a solution with the member states in this area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report on the provision of social services in europe is concerned with a field of tension between two important blocs. it is a question of a uniform competition system in europe, and it is a question of local selfgovernment, which means subsidiarity. the focus must always be on the citizen, the consumer, on the services he receives, on the conditions he meets and, above all, on the quality of the services. the commission's communication contains two points which are important to me: it always refers to an economic activity, although it is very difficult to define an economic activity precisely. when we discuss what an economic activity is here in this house, many members are naturally influenced by their home countries. is an economic activity to be considered as such if an undertaking is already engaged in a sector for profit? i shall now just mention the subject of transporting sick people. the second is the question of abuse control. the question here is not whether the commission can examine, but how much detail it should examine so that it does not, by making specific examination requirements, end up by going through the back door to a concept of social security. it is important that we retain municipal responsibility and that under municipal responsibility we bring about some competition through calls for tenders. finally, i would like to emphasize something which is mentioned in the report but not in the commission's communication, namely the water market. water is an incredibly important area for us in germany and austria. i think it is absolutely unacceptable that a decision on an individual case within the european union - the commission has already commissioned an opinion on this - should lead to the opening up of the market. sector specific consideration is required in advance. i can therefore only warn the commission against such steps.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the single market means that many things which were regulated in a very specific way in the member states are now subject to new, different rules. the provision of social services is a prime example of this. the difficulty of this example is compounded by the fact that the objectives of social security are quite similar in the member states. the instruments differ considerably, partly because of differences in cultural developments and also because of differences in the administrative structures of the member states. that does not make it easy to establish common rules. the member states must, however, be able to determine for themselves what services they consider to be essential. the rules of the game, on the other hand, must be as uniform as possible in a common internal market. the competition law as laid down in the treaty does not in itself provide sufficient legal certainty for design. on the other hand, it must not be the aim to abolish this european competition law. it must therefore be interpreted as binding for the purposes of public welfare. we therefore call for a framework directive which establishes the community principles on which the public service is based. it is intended to lay down rules for the member states. the main purpose of the directive is to provide legal certainty for those who provide public services. the commission is also asked to impose a third set of restrictions on its discretion. their executive monopoly is not to be tampered with. but i would have liked to have defined for their individual decisions, for the exemption regulations, for example, what are economic activities and what are not economic activities? what falls under the trivial threshold? when is intra-community trade affected? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. to ensure that public services are sufficiently available to the general public, the eu is committed to liberalisation. if this means increased but fair competition in postal, transport, water, social and other services, then that is true. however, when the quality of the service decreases for purely cost reasons, fewer and fewer providers are available and fewer and fewer people are employed, this development is politically counter-productive. state monopolies must not be replaced by private monopolies! the rapporteur, mr langen, has taken up my suggestions to recognise the tasks of social protection as common european values. they contribute to the european social model and to the sustainable development of the eu's regions. the aim is to ensure high quality and safety standards, breadth of supply and continuity at a favourable price-performance ratio. the member states continue to decide in their calls for tender which environmental, availability and social standards they wish to measure. it is in the interests of all citizens that these services be clearly defined in the framework of european public procurement law. the exception to these internal market competition and market rules is local, social and charitable services which are not for profit and which address the needs of the excluded and the socially vulnerable. the citizens and users shall be fully involved in the implementation of this agreement by the member states and the commission. the eu will only accept new social security schemes if they are transparent and participatory. as a member of both the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on employment and social affairs, i recommend that the house approve this excellent, balanced report.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i too have been informed by spanish colleagues of an error in the spanish version, which i would like to see corrected, concerning the word determiner in the second part of article 6 (3). this word should be replaced by the word evaluar, because that is the correct translation. i ask you to check that too and to correct it if necessary.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to refer again to the vote, where we were unfortunately deprived of the opportunity to vote on paragraph 62. i have now looked at the documents again: paragraph 62 is an addition to paragraph 58 and we should have voted on it by roll-call. i am sorry to say that my two statements on the rules of procedure were ignored by your two assistants. the point is that we should make it clear, simply and forcefully, that the general competition law cannot be used to open up competition in the water market. that is why i want to emphasize this again. i have already said in my opening remarks that we are against this and i ask that this be recorded and that, if possible, the statements of members be not ignored in future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you can ask your two comrades. the officer sitting to your left looked at me, but didn't tell you. i can't help it!
in writing. - the european parliament has expressed its desire to promote the european film industry and to strengthen it in the face of all-powerful american competition. this is a concern which is also shared by the spd delegation in the european parliament. that is why it voted in favour of the report, although it has considerable reservations about the statements in paragraph 8. the latter contains an attempt - without regard to the debate which has just begun on the revision of the 'television without frontiers' directive - to take this revision process in a specific direction, which is very doubtful, both in legal terms and in terms of content. the cultural competence - and therefore the competence for broadcasting - is the exclusive responsibility of the member states. in practice, paragraph 8 would greatly undermine the autonomy of public and private broadcasters in programming. it would also infringe national competence in the organisation of public broadcasting, which is enshrined in the relevant protocol to the treaty of amsterdam. it is not the extension of protectionist measures that decides the success or failure of european audiovisual products, but their adaptation to the market and their competitiveness. one of their structural handicaps is undoubtedly that european audiovisual works rarely leave their country of origin. the introduction of incentive schemes for the distribution of european films not produced in the community should therefore be seriously considered. however, the conditions described in paragraph 7 are not the right way.
- the next item is the report (a5-0364/2001) by mr meijer, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on action by the member states concerning public service requirements and the award of public service contracts in the field of passenger transport by rail, road and inland waterway (com (2000) 7 - c5-0326/2000 - 2000/0212 (cod)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr meijer, you are right. let me say in advance that i do want to say a word of thanks to you, because i know how committed you have been to trying to bring this issue up and how many conversations you have had to put forward a proposal, so to speak. i must say, however, that i cannot accept most of what you propose. all that we are discussing today is not new in principle. when the regulation finally came from the commission in the summer of 2000, when it reached parliament and when the first talks with trade unions, representatives of local transport operators and representatives of associations began, it was clear to everyone that there would be controlled competition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the question was also which exemptions from the obligation to tender should apply. all this played a role, as did the recurrent question of social dumping, i.e. the danger that tenders could recruit particularly cheap labour. there was a consensus. we want controlled competition, which is not privatization, by the way. it's always confused. it is not automatically privatisation. the only consequence is that it is no longer automatic that municipal transport companies continue to benefit from substantial subsidies from the land, the federal government or the local authorities without having to face competition, but that in future there should be a tendering obligation. we all know that the local transport companies - and they know this too - are in principle offering their product at too high a price. the reason for this is that in recent decades, trade unions have always been very successful in collective bargaining, particularly in the public service. it is a given that in the private bus sector - to give an example - personnel costs are 35-40% lower than in the public service. competition also opens up the possibility that in the future we will be able to buy transport services more cheaply without a municipality being able to evade responsibility. it's not like they're being privatized. there is still a government agency that has to ensure that there is public transport. i see the opportunity that if you can buy transportation more cheaply, with the resource that you save in doing so, you can buy more transportation in the future, and create a more attractive public transit system, and you can achieve all that was said here in advance, that we make transportation so attractive that more people will use it in the future. now, after this long history, i think it was almost a disaster, because mr meijer obviously did not know where to go and then proposed a right to vote, so that in future the person in charge - the county or the municipality - can decide whether i sign or not. i predict that if this right to vote, which is now to be introduced in the motion for a resolution under amendment no 61 with article 7a, becomes a reality, there will be no competition because the pressure on local authorities from transport companies, trade unions and associations will be so great that they will not be able to withstand this pressure and will continue to grant automatically. i therefore warmly ask you, ladies and gentlemen - and we can argue about many points - to reconsider your decision tomorrow and not to accept amendment no 61 so that there will still be a call for tenders, with exceptions for small amounts in rural areas, but let us all follow a common line.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not surprised that you are not in favour of this. it is true that we need a european legal framework for public transport, because there is legal uncertainty and the opening up of the market already exists. the question is how close europe is to the citizen when it comes to making decisions. in my view, the responsibility for public transport lies first and foremost with the local authorities and should remain with them. cities and municipalities should decide for themselves whether they want to operate public transport services with their own companies and then be able to do so. of course, if you say you'll do it yourself, you can't compete anywhere else. i thank the rapporteur, mr meijer, for pursuing this basic idea - i should say with a certain stubbornness - because this matter of local self-determination is an important point. secondly, where competition exists in the public transport sector, it may lead to wage and social dumping. dear ingo schmitt, a bus driver in the public transport sector does not earn a fortune, in germany he earns just 200 dm over the social assistance rate. this is why social standards must be maintained when changing operators. thirdly, in many member states, public transport in rural areas is operated by small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i think they must also have a chance in the market in the matter of direct supply of lines or networks. in some regions of germany, however, school transport accounts for almost 90% of public transport, and here too direct provision needs to be increased. i think we can agree that the commission's deadlines are too short both in the contracts and in the transition, and that we have worked together to extend them. we have different views on the other matters, and i believe, unlike mr schmitt, that there will be no disaster tomorrow, but that we will decide very closely for the local authorities in the public transport sector. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the main problem with the commission's proposal is that it subordinates public transport to the objective of 'free competition' alone. that may be welcomed by some in this house, but i think it is a complete misconception. public transport must be subordinated primarily to transport policy objectives. this is also a european question, namely how can the public transport service improve the mobility of all citizens, including those who have no alternative to public transport, those who do not own a car, such as students, families with many children, pensioners, disabled people, people with modest incomes? therefore, ensuring sustainable basic mobility in accordance with urban and regional planning is the primary objective of public transport. this can be achieved in very different ways depending on the specific local situation. i therefore still cannot understand why the commission chose the form of the regulation rather than the possibilities of the directive, since this is a typical case of the principle of subsidiarity. i am also surprised that the commission is choosing the form of regulation here too, while at the same time publishing the white paper on european governance. in this white paper, it wants to strengthen local government and here it is taking action. the question therefore is: how can the principle of european governance be implemented in such a regulation to strengthen local selfgovernment? finally, i would like to refer to the question of the tender. of course there must be tenders. but these calls for tenders must be guided first by transport policy objectives, secondly by environmental policy objectives and thirdly by social policy objectives, and these should lead to an optimum level of mobility for our electorate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, we should tell our viewers, who are more numerous than the members of this house, that there is no difference in our objective. we all want the best possible public transport at the lowest cost to the taxpayer and to the passenger. that's our common goal. the question now is how to walk the path properly. if your proposal from the left of the house is to promote the right to vote of the municipalities and regions, then i can only say that the last 14 years have proved that the right to vote is to the detriment of the citizens. because what's the situation? in most towns and cities, the benefits are being reduced by the municipalities and the subsidies are being increased. the reality is that we cannot continue with the present system if we want to have a good and efficient public transport service, both in the local and in the regional areas. that is why we say we must put out to tender so that citizens can get the best quality, the best tactility, the best modern buses at the lowest cost. that's the goal. the second point, mr president, is that the community treaty, the treaty of the european community, states that everyone has the right to freedom of movement. the freedom to provide services can only be restricted by a higher good. the free will of a village community is not enough to say that i am restricting the freedom of provision of services under community law in village a or b. they need controlled legislation to restrict the freedom to provide services because of higher-ranking goods. we will. the only way to remove the right to restrict the freedom to provide services is to give the municipalities the right to vote again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. first of all, i would like to express my gratitude to the commission for having the courage to present a proposal for a regulation last year, which tackles the hot topic of 'public transport for passengers'. we cannot help but notice that - as we are currently seeing with an airline - economy is also taking hold in local public transport. it is not possible that year after year - i am myself active in local government - the issues of the losses of public local passenger transport are silently addressed, that is, paid for by the taxpayer, without the money being able to be used to improve the attractiveness of public transport. so you have to ask yourself, why was the public transportation system created? it was not designed to recruit as many bus drivers as possible, but to develop attractive offers in rural areas and in densely populated areas to ensure the mobility of all people. this is the task which the public prosecutor's office has to perform. i think that what mr grosch has said, that we need equality of arms in a european single market, is the crucial point. we cannot introduce a system of freedom of choice which gives certain municipalities the opportunity - because they are under cost pressure, because they want to use their taxpayers' money properly - to make tenders, and then those who come from protected monopolies apply! that is why it is so important that this amendment be rejected tomorrow, so that there is equality of arms for all. the commission has set very strict deadlines for the duration of licences and transitional arrangements. i think that here we as a committee have found a fair compromise between the various stakeholders. i would like to see us start, first of all, by setting a time limit for the introduction of licensing systems throughout europe. we will be able to discuss this in further steps, commissioner, in order to make it even more competitive. but let's take that first step together first. this is for the good of the people of europe!
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr meijer, for the work he has done; it is a complex and complicated work, a proposal which has given rise to many amendments and positions. the good work of mr meijer and all the honourable members has enabled a very important debate to take place in this house. in many ways, this debate has helped to generate another broad public debate. the analyses in this dossier, both within and outside the institutions, help the commission to improve its own ideas. the debate has highlighted the controversy surrounding these issues, although there have been times when the feelings have not revealed the real substance of the proposal we are dealing with. firstly, there is legal uncertainty in this sector today and what we want to do with this proposal, ladies and gentlemen - and this must be made very clear - is to resolve a situation of legal uncertainty which can create serious problems in public transport. the first aim of this initiative is precisely - as mr jarzembowski has said - to promote public transport; we all agree that the european union must promote quality public transport at the best possible price. the commission considers that many existing contracts and agreements, which confer exclusive rights or financial compensation, risk being challenged under the competition rules of the treaty. this is the risk we face and which we intend to solve with this proposal. secondly, if the problem of legal uncertainty is already very serious in itself, it is also clear that regulated competition in public transport must benefit both users and society at large. the facts have shown that systems open to competition controlled and regulated by the public sector have experienced faster growth in the number of travellers during the 1990s than systems not subject to any competitive pressure. the reality is that we do not want private monopolies either. i am sure you will understand that it would take hours to present the commission's position on each of the 130 amendments to this dossier. i shall therefore refer to the fundamental questions raised by the honourable members and, as regards the specification of the amendment numbers, i am at your disposal. as far as what we can accept, we welcome first of all the proposals to strengthen the quality criteria which the authorities must take into account when assessing transport needs and when awarding contracts. when markets are opened up, the authorities will have to address all employment, environmental, consumer and possibly even more issues if services remain closed to competitive pressures. we must therefore facilitate the opening up of the market, precisely to guarantee those standards and levels of employment, the environment and consumers that we all want. secondly, the commission may also accept a longer maximum duration of contracts. we find the time limits proposed in amendments nos 15 and 54 (8 years for buses and 15 years for railways) acceptable. thirdly, as regards the exceptions to the competition principle, only those amendments which do not go against our initial proposal are accepted, and not those which seek to limit the scope of the regulation even further. we can also accept those amendments which raise the de minimis thresholds for direct awards. and, after attending the debate, we accept that emergency situations may arise where it is impossible to organise the competition in time, and in a way that allows the service to be maintained. the amendments in this direction are therefore acceptable in principle, although they may need to be reworded. we believe that they should be combined in a single emergency clause covering other similar circumstances as well. the commission could also accept those which help to give the authorities responsible for compensation more flexibility in relation to the general rules for all operators, such as those setting maximum rates, which in some cases should be applied with nuance. finally, ladies and gentlemen, the commission can accept the idea of a transitional period ending at eight years, as proposed in amendment no 90. however, instead of a big bang at that date, we think that the regulation should provide for a gradual opening up of the market by the authorities, with a first step being taken after four years. it is also acceptable that existing contracts, awarded in accordance with competition, can continue their natural course, provided that their duration is fixed (i.e. they are not unlimited contracts) and reasonable. however, ladies and gentlemen, there are things we cannot accept, because they would distort the meaning of the commission's proposal. for example, we cannot support the exclusion of entire sectors from the scope of the regulation; we cannot accept amendments nos 23, 28 and 128, which would exclude all long distance services. parliament may be in favour of widening competition in long distance rail passenger transport, but it would prefer that this issue be dealt with in the second railway package. the draft report raises legal problems in certain cases. amendment no 24 would give priority to the regulation on directives on public procurement. ladies and gentlemen, the commission is of the opinion that this could lead to the european union breaching commitments under the world trade organisation's public procurement agreement. for this reason, we cannot accept this amendment either. the second legal problem concerns reciprocity. permanent and structural reciprocity clauses are contrary to the non-discrimination requirements of the treaties. we cannot therefore accept amendments which simply propose structural reciprocity clauses. however, we believe that, until certain exceptions are introduced, it is necessary to be able to accept, on a transitional and exceptional basis, some type of clause restricting access to a market. it is important that the transition to controlled competition be accompanied by appropriate safeguards, including in the area of social protection, as has been pointed out by several honourable members. we cannot therefore accept amendments which would leave the competent authorities with no room for manoeuvre in this respect. i have presented the commission's views on most of the major issues raised in mr meijer's report, but - i assume you have not missed them - there are still some crucial issues. for example, the report includes a group of amendments (3, 12, 14, 61, 100, 126 and 129) which seek to safeguard the ability of public operators to continue to exist without their ability to compete and to provide services in an appropriate and good service to citizens being regularly challenged, through public tenders. in legal terms, there is no fundamental problem with the principle that public authorities decide to provide the transport service themselves. it's in the initiative. the main legal problem arises when the public authority continues to deny all other undertakings the possibility of providing these services in the same area, in transparent and fair competition. we are talking about transport at a certain level, not small-scale transport between two towns, which is excluded from the scope of this directive by the de minimis rule, as is clearly stated. we are talking about important transport markets. we cannot therefore accept these amendments as they stand. we believe that they do not benefit the citizens, because they go too far, isolating operators from the market pressures to maintain and improve the situation. however, we believe that the option of self-production provided for in those amendments could be maintained, subject to certain strict and clearly stated conditions. it is clear that this approach should be accompanied by provisions to ensure that all operators maintain quality and integration standards and that the authorities remain able to control competition for the benefit of the users of services. the final part of amendment no 112, which proposes the direct award of up to 10% of public services to a private sector operator, is also acceptable, provided that the authority cannot invoke this and other exceptions in the simultaneous tendering for a single mode of transport. finally, ladies and gentlemen, if parliament votes on this report as it stands, i fear that the text, the spirit and the objective of the commission's proposal would be seriously affected. in this sense, it would be necessary to re-examine overall what this change would actually bring to community legislation. the commission still believes that the current regulation (which has been in force for several decades) needs to be modernised and updated in order to provide public transport with sufficient legal certainty to guarantee the highest level of quality, greater competitiveness, better prices and legal certainty to enable public authorities to subsidize and financially support certain routes or certain requirements, such as those of pensioners or other groups, without having to argue before the courts. we need efficient public transport, at the service of the citizens, which will help to rebalance transport systems and avoid a future situation of collapse within the european transport system, which would cause damage to the productive, economic and competitive capacity, to job creation and, above all, to the quality of life of our citizens.
- thank you very much, commissioner de palacio! the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0354/2001) by mr jarzembowski, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on access to the market in port services (com (2001) 35 - c5-0078/2001 - 2001/0047 (cod)).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, the commission's proposal for a directive on market access for port services is to be assessed and welcomed as part of the commission's comprehensive communication on improving the quality of services in maritime ports. the communication was intended to draw the conclusions of the opinions of parliament and the council on the commission's 1997 green paper. looking back over the last few weeks, we can see that while the european parliament was still able to agree by a large majority on an opinion on the green paper in 1999, the current commission proposal, which seeks to regulate market access for port services in individual ports, has been very controversial in the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, as the outcome of the vote on the report showed with 26 votes in favour, 21 against and 11 abstentions. i hope, and i want to do my part, that the debate today and the vote tomorrow will produce a clear opinion from the plenary. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i am not sure that it will be possible to reach a decision on the matter in the near future. we do not want to leave that to the council, but we want to contribute our own weight. the majority in the committee supported the commission's intention to introduce only competition rules in individual ports and to include all service providers. however, the report is ambiguous on one point, namely whether pilot services should fall within the scope of the directive. the amendment 14 in the committee report states that pilot services should not be affected by the provisions, but the proposal to remove pilot services from the annex to the directive and which alone defines the scope of the directive has been rejected. we must therefore take a clear line as a parliament tomorrow. among the other amendments in the committee's report, i would like to stress the extension in principle of the scope of application to access to the port, whether by sea or waterway, a more restrictive definition of self-handling and the abandonment of at least two service providers per category of cargo, as well as the obligation we have included in the directive that in the event of a tender, the new service provider must provide value compensation to its predecessor. the minority in the committee has tried above all to emphasise that, contrary to the demands made by the european parliament in 1999, the commission has not proposed any scheme to create fair conditions of competition between ports in the union. the commission has not provided any transparency inquiry or guidelines for the control of aid. a minority in the committee therefore proposed the introduction of new rules on the transparency of the financial relationship between ports and public authorities and on the permissible public financing measures in favour of ports in the sense of legal protection for ports, but also against excessive aid . i personally think it is very important that we reach agreement on this question of transparency tomorrow. the question of transparency and fair conditions of competition between ports is central to the functioning of ports. we have all stressed time and again that ports, with 70% of external trade and 30% of intra-community trade passing through ports, play a central role in european transport policy. they are an essential hub and they must function well. i believe that no one should be afraid of transparency, but that transparency leads to a level playing field. i think that is a good feature and a good criterion for actually further strengthening the efficiency of ports. i hope that we can have a good debate this afternoon and a wise vote in the house tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. normally, ports, and above all seaports, are open systems, and in the tens they are hubs for the most environmentally friendly mode of transport, water or ship. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on the contrary, i think that opacity, and very often intentionally opacity, is the right word here. in seamen's parlance, it would be said that the financing of the seaports is closing the scots. these existing financial structures, which could be described as a gray veil, must change. i think transparency of financial relations, transparency of public financing must be what the vote tomorrow should be about, because this is the basic condition for fair competition between the ports. admittedly, this is not easy. we have private, state, semi-state, publicly controlled ports, but they are all companies and they are in competition, and that is why we need fair conditions. i am not against aid, but i am against aid for all. the problem, i think, is that competition between ports has to be organised. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's ports are not affected by the crisis. the other issue is the pilot services. we believe that piloting is a public service. they're for maritime safety. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport system is not affected by the accident. i think they could be expanded if we remember the cadet step, where accidents happen all the time. it sometimes seems that many of the ships here are simply the famous shell atlas for navigation and nothing more. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of pilots at sea is not sacrificed to the alleged cost pressures of competition. i would like to thank the rapporteur very much. i know he has a tough job, but the shadow reporter doesn't always have an easy job, either.
the commission has already done so. you know that i come from a small port, but at least i have a european label in the transeuropean networks. i am happy to note that in a liberalized market and in a free and fair competition, black and white is not enough to satisfy a principle. i'm still a little bit tired of this whole nasty duty-free dispute. the ports are also jobs, attractiveness and profile. i agree with you that we need defined rules on transparency in the accounting of costs and the use of public funds by ports in order to be able to establish fair competition within and between ports. it is only by making the flow of public funds and services transparent that the offers of the different seaports can be compared and it can be shown who is more efficient. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the port services market is open to competition. i also say that we should not liberalize pilot services at this stage. the pilots, in their current organisational form, have always ensured a high standard of quality and safety for the waterways. these extremely high standards would be unnecessarily jeopardised by liberalisation at any cost. there are components in any market structure where quality, not competition, must be the priority. of course, one day the pilots will have to come up with a new concept. one of these days! they too will not be able to close themselves off permanently to a market opening. but as far as safety on the water is concerned, there are more urgent tasks at the moment, such as the introduction of a black box for ships. the immediate compulsion to subject pilots to competition could lead to a price war which could have a lasting effect on the safety of shipping routes. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have questions, of course, but you can also make some phrases. first of all, mr president of the commission, we are glad to see you here. but we were very surprised when we had our board meeting and your name appeared on the monitor. we weren't aware of that. that may have been a mistake on our part. we are making mistakes, of course, but in general - i have been asking around a bit - we were not aware that the president of the commission was coming this afternoon, which we are very pleased to hear, but we would have liked to have had some information about this beforehand. the second point - and i would like to have an answer on that - is that i was told this morning, when the group chairmen held the press conferences, that commissioner verheugen also held a press conference. i would be very interested, commissioner, to know whether this is the case. if you can figure this out, so much the better. now to my questions: first of all, i would like to inform you that we had a board meeting in hungary last week. there was great concern in hungary that enlargement for hungary might be delayed if things did not develop as quickly as desirable in another country, namely poland. of course we all want poland to be in the first enlargement round, but this cannot mean that if one member country is not ready, the others have to wait and we cannot meet the 2004 deadline. each country must be judged on its own merits if enlargement is to take place. i'd appreciate it if you could comment on that. then a very specific question. there was also concern in hungary that the status law, i.e. the law on hungary in other countries, would be criticized. this law was passed by 95% of the hungarian parliament, and a council of europe commission, the so-called venice commission, has explicitly said that this status is okay. a final question: how do you see the past being overcome in relation to some countries of the european union today? i am thinking of the benes decrees, i am thinking of the acquisition of land in poland, for example. can you tell us more about that? can we start with declarations which will allow these countries to have a future without any burdens when they join the european union, which is something we naturally very much want? we want to see the date 2004 fixed so that these peoples can take part in the next european elections.
the commission. - madam president, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to see you here today. the first question is that free trade agreements between candidate countries and third countries should of course be terminated before accession, but they cannot, of course, be valid after accession at the latest. free trade agreements between two candidate countries would indeed create a problem if these countries then join at different times. i must say, however, that the problem is very limited, because the countries you have mentioned are covered by the europe agreements, which already provide for a very wide liberalisation of trade in goods, but also in services and other economic relations, so that a european solution can be found to this problem should it arise. but i don't expect that to be a problem. the question of croatia is beyond my competence, and i would have to ask the president to say something more about it. i would also like to point out that i said specifically that you were asking hypothetical questions. i don't normally like to answer hypothetical questions, but you were entitled to an opinion. i have also said that the commission's clear and unchanged line is that we must do everything, including everything imaginable, to achieve a political solution to the conflict before the accession negotiations are concluded. i have appealed to all the parties involved here once again, and i must make it clear once again, that it is in the interest of the turkish cypriot community in particular that a political solution be found before accession, because no one in the whole area will benefit as much from cyprus's membership of the european union as the turkish cypriot community. the european union has a duty to ensure that the turkish cypriot community in cyprus is not excluded from the european union.
president of the commission. - you will recall, mr president, that the very week after the political change and the establishment of a situation of recognized democracy in the country, i immediately went to croatia to begin a cooperation relationship, which is proceeding very well at the moment. in the last few weeks we have had an official meeting with the croatian prime minister and we have continued in this direction: we are really encouraging croatia in all its efforts to move closer to the european union. of course, the tragedy of the war, the traces it left on the country's economy, still weigh heavily and make the solution not immediate, but we are really speeding up that solution in every way.
madam president, i have three questions. first of all, i think it is very good that the commission is finally focusing on supporting the strengthening of the administration. but my question is whether in this context it also draws attention to the need for the administration to really practice citizen participation, for what is taken for granted here in the european union to be practised there too. the second question concerns the action plan and the finances. if you allocate more money from the phare programme to support the institutions, does that mean that funds are being withdrawn from the other important area, namely social and economic cohesion, that is to say that we are not going to continue to support a central problem in these countries, namely to stop the growing social decline, although this is urgently needed? the last question concerns a point which is not mentioned at all in the report: does the commission intend to encourage the council to establish a european roma programme, which i believe is urgently needed? the roma minority is currently in a situation in almost all countries where the human and democratic rights of this minority are still being violated. it is clear that this cannot be solved individually by these candidate countries, but that it is a european issue which must be solved with a european programme.
the commission. the level of citizen participation that is standard in the european union is of course also required by the candidate countries and is part of both monitoring and support. secondly, the funds that mr swoboda has already asked for are not taken from the country-specific programmes, but are multi-country programmes, i.e. programmes which apply to all countries and which are in the central reserve. so no country will be given a single euro less in the projects discussed so far. so it's not at the expense of other projects. as for a european roma project, it is not included in the commission's proposals so far. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is a view which, to my knowledge, is not shared by most member states. in any case, a specific european roma programme would require significant material requirements. i have to answer your question that the commission has not made such a proposal at present, but is focusing on helping the candidate countries to implement their national roma integration strategies. i should perhaps point out that we have very strict requirements here and that we are asking all the candidate countries with a roma population to present and implement a medium-term strategy that will lead to the social integration of the roma and eliminate social discrimination. as you know, we support these programmes very heavily with the early entry instruments.
i have to say, madam president, i'm not going to tell you. you said you didn't give a press conference. that seems to be true, but can you confirm that you gave a press briefing this morning while the press conferences of the group chairmen were going on? secondly, if you can answer this question in the affirmative, i would like to ask the president of the commission whether he thinks that such press briefings are conducive to cooperation between parliament and the commission if we should be the first to be informed here!
madam president, the question of mr swoboda on reactor safety has led me to ask whether the commission can make it clear to its own services, to the member states and their governments - and certainly to the european parliament - that we cannot ask the candidate countries to do more in the negotiations than we are doing as member states of the european union. i think that this is not entirely clear in all areas in all our institutions. perhaps we should clarify this again next year. the second question i would like to ask is that your report is very optimistic that ten countries have a chance of signing the accession treaty at the end of next year. i think you have said it, but it should also be said more clearly: that is today's assessment! this means that if countries were to fall behind due to policy failures in the coming year, it could well be that the list could also include fewer than ten, so that very strong individual efforts are needed and no certainty is given from today's assessment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. in your paper you state that even after the signing, the implementation is still being worked on. but what assurance is there at the time of signing that the administrative capacity will actually be in place by the time of effective accession?
the commission. mr president, the first question is very difficult to answer. i sometimes feel that we are asking the candidate countries to do something that the member countries themselves do not do. but that is because we have these criteria and we are forced to report very precisely whether these criteria are met or not. i have said in the commission today in the same context that we should always bear in mind what progress reports would look like if we approached the member states with the same criteria. the member states would never allow us to do this, but we might find that some of the things we criticise in the candidate countries or say are not compatible with the copenhagen criteria are also found in one or another member state. that is why i always advise our member states to be a little more modest at this point. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the negotiations are very precisely geared to the acquis and to nothing else. nothing else is being negotiated. the problem you have described can therefore only arise when it comes to assessing whether candidate countries meet the very vaguely formulated political or economic criteria for accession. my answer is that it is possible that we sometimes ask for more. as regards the other question, the ten countries, the commission has said today that we must prepare ourselves to take in all those who meet the conditions and have completed the negotiations by the end of 2002. this is a rejection of the idea of forming political groups, so to speak, and the commission considers that this is the correct interpretation of the helsinki and gothenburg decisions. in helsinki it was said that all countries invited to negotiate should have a chance to open up, which can only mean that their accession is considered possible at the same time as those that have been negotiating since luxembourg, and gothenburg envisages the first accessions before 2004. it follows inevitably that we must prepare ourselves for the admission of up to ten - i do not say ten, but up to ten - because ten countries have set themselves the objective of completing the negotiations by 2002. i don't know if it's really going to come to that. the commission will present its final opinion next year, and it will do so in strict accordance with the principles and rules it has proposed. i have already said in parliament during the last debate on enlargement that we must not take political decisions on enlargement in the worst or narrowest sense of the word, that is to say, for purely political reasons, to say who is going to get in or who is not going to get in. rather, this decision must be based on the fulfilment of the criteria and the outcome of the negotiations. that is what the commission proposal will look like. of the ten countries that now believe they can do it, none of them are immune to the fact that we might end up saying, "well, they're not ready yet". i say specifically: none!
the commission has already done so. i have listened to your remarks on eu enlargement in the last few minutes. i have heard a great deal about turkey's shortcomings: constitutional reform, the democratization process, human rights. my question is: what about the rights of the kurds in the accession partnership document? what about the rights of 25 million people who were not mentioned in this discussion? i would ask you, commissioner, to mention the situation with regard to the rights of the kurds and your assessment of the political situation in turkey with regard to the constitutional amendment and the kurdish question.
- the next item is the report (a5-0363/2001) by mr chichester, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the commission green paper entitled 'towards a european strategy for the security of energy supply' (com (2000) 769 - c5-0145/2001 - 2001/2071 (cos)).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i like this report and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his remarks and also the commission on the green paper, because the commission is bringing our energy dependence to our attention. i cannot recall any debate in the last twenty years which has drawn attention to the dependence on energy imports as much as this green paper. thank you again. two comments on nuclear energy. unlike many in my group, i believe that it has a future. i think we should also put that in a positive light. the second point i want to make -- perhaps even more important than the first point -- is that it is our job to develop a clean coal power plant. i say this also in the light of the commitments we have under kyoto. a clean coal power plant is not only of interest to europe, but to the world. we must not forget that - as the commission has repeatedly stressed - in the next generation or two our dependence on fossil fuels will be at least 80% worldwide, and it is all the more important to master combustion technologies.
- thank you very much, commissioner. now mr turmes for the agenda.
- madam president, that may be true, but that is not on the agenda. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0356/2001) by mrs schörling, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the commission white paper on a strategy for future chemicals policy (com (2001) 88 - c5-0258/2001 - 2001/2118 (cos)).
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. on 11 october the committee on legal affairs and the internal market adopted my opinion on the white paper on the future chemicals policy. the harmonization of chemicals policy throughout the community is of particular importance. the following three points are equally important: first, the practicability of the registration system. the scope of the data to be collected must respect the principle of proportionality, so as not to block the system from the outset. the principle of the 'use by' principle applies equally to the required definition of the intended use, i.e. the manufacturer of a product must be able to restrict the definition to the intended use. secondly, a clear definition of the principle of substitution. the definition of this principle varies in the member states, if any. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. thirdly, adequate protection of the test data. the need to protect trade secrets is not sufficiently taken into account. at the same time, the notifier shall be protected against unjustified use of the data identified by copyright protection of the safety data sheet. the report by mrs schörling is not balanced in that respect. the interests of the chemical industry and of the small and mediumsized enterprises are not sufficiently taken into account, which can lead to distortions of competition. i therefore recommend that you accept the amendments which follow from the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. these contribute to a better balance of interests for all concerned.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. the commission is not the commission's white paper takes the ambitious approach of embarking on a comprehensive modernisation of eu substance and product law. the legal merger of old and new substances and uniform registration and evaluation procedures for all substances from one tonne per year onwards in a strict timeframe until 2012 is in principle correct. this general line of the white paper strengthens the industry's own responsibility for chemicals management and proposes a major reorientation based on the experience gained with individual regulations. the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy of the european parliament adopted this report by a large majority. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the committee on industry, trade, research and energy also considers that legal provisions should not be based solely on the properties of substances but should be based on actual risks that can be scientifically demonstrated. quantities are just auxiliary quantities. the decisive criterion is risk-bearing. the committee on industry, trade, research and energy therefore calls for a two-stage screening procedure. we expressly reject the line of the rapporteur of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection on the following points: to include sensitising substances in the authorisation procedure, to limit the validity of authorisation, to include all quantities below one tonne in the registration obligation, to make all data available to the public without restriction, to ban substances on a large scale, to have extensive data and assessments submitted by industry additionally reviewed in a peer review and a number of other points. the massive extension of the authorization procedure would be in direct conflict with the common objective of reducing animal testing. the committee on industry, trade, research and energy therefore takes the line of reason that has been demanded by the european trade unions and the european employers in the chemical industry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. chemicals and products are now part of our daily lives. in many ways, we can no longer do without chemistry in our society. we use things like cleaning products, cosmetics, plastics, medicines and many more things. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. we therefore need a workable and flexible system for the control and evaluation of existing and new substances. the epp group believes that the white paper must address the inadequacy of european chemicals policy and give top priority to the protection of people and the environment and sustainable development, without jeopardising the competitiveness of the chemical industry and smes in global competition. the chemical industry is the third largest manufacturing industry in europe, and the figures the commission gives are 4.7 million jobs and almost 40 000 mostly small and mediumsized enterprises. we are also deciding their future with this report. the schörling report is clearly aimed at environmental policy, and it is to be feared that the excessive demands on the authorities will paralyse the whole system and make it doomed from the start. the epp group therefore rejects the following points: the obligation to register substances below one tonne of annual production, the extension of the authorization procedure, the substitution and prohibition of substances solely on the basis of their properties, an additional peer review procedure, impracticable information requirements and databases. we believe that only a balanced system can ensure that high-quality products are produced within the european union, that jobs are safeguarded and that the protection of people and the environment is effectively improved. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the report is a milestone for environmental and consumer protection. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. for decades, there have been over a hundred thousand chemicals on the market, and we don't know how much of them there are and what the risks are. this is a violation of the precautionary principle, testing these chemicals on ourselves and the environment in a blind flight. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so for decades, we've been playing russian roulette with our health and the environment. we must put an end to this appalling, indeed irresponsible state of affairs as soon as possible. if industry does not submit the data within a certain time, these chemicals cannot be marketed. i hope that the majority in this house will not allow itself to be made into a bully of the chemical industry, because it is precisely the aggressive promotion of the german chemical industry's advertising circuit that has made it clear that in its helplessness it is not able to make any sound arguments at political level. the complaints about shop losses, which are also being raised by colleagues here, are a joke, considering that the chemical industry has lost 14% of jobs in the last ten years, with a 25% increase in real production, without a white paper on chemical policy, and we know very well that the chemical industry has no chance of providing sustainable employment unless it offers environmentally friendly products. only then can we succeed in strengthening the chemical site. we will fight to make the new chemicals policy the heart of european environmental policy. i believe that we must put an end to decades of vogel-strauss policy and implement an effective, sustainable chemicals policy which puts health interests and the precautionary principle at the forefront.
the commission has already done so. it is certainly right that the european union should have a new chemicals policy in the long term. the current chemicals policy is not satisfactory. it was indicated earlier that there are a lot of tests, but the overall test result is unsatisfactory. the commission's fundamental approach is therefore to be welcomed, even if we do not support the commission's proposal in every way. but i want to warn you about something: i have also taken you very much to heart today, commissioner. when you came to us, you announced that you wanted to use your country's experience to set up a new chemicals policy in europe. i have the impression that today you have the saying "the spirits i called, i will not get rid of them". what the rapporteur has proposed to us is not an environmental policy proposal. it is a classic export of pollution, because many companies which are already operating on the periphery of the european union will very soon be moving closer to the periphery of the european union, but also outside the union, in order to escape these unimaginable constraints. this cannot be modern environmental policy. we must instead integrate industry in this area to high but feasible standards. i think that the points which have been raised earlier - the time limit for authorization, the obligation to regulate under 1 000 kilos, the principle of substitution and the regulation of application - are a form of a multi-protection approach, because every medium-sized enterprise is enslaved, because only industry can meet the requirements laid down in your proposal.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, and in particular the epp members! i would urge you once again to drive a little lower. it is a white paper and i do not think we should try to build muscle, which may be politically motivated in one way or another, on the basis of this white paper. we will have legislation at some later date that is really about fine-tuning. it is a pity that some of the speakers are no longer here, they are no longer able to hear what i have to say. but maybe you can tell them. we have put forward proposals which go exactly in that direction and which say that duplication of work should be avoided. amendment no 97 seeks to abolish peer review in order to have a simplified procedure. we have already put forward proposals for smes in the committee, saying that there should be pilot projects where smes can register easily and effectively. we want simple administrative rules and we have made provision for the involvement of the workers who are directly affected, the workers' representatives and the euro-working party councils, in the decision-making process. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a white paper in which nothing is decided definitively. i can't understand this! and we've also added a clause to the substitution principle that says that the substitutes should also be subject to full-time life-cycle analysis before they can be used, so if you don't accept that and say, "this is exactly the way", then i don't know where we should go. and as for this one tonne, i can't see any argument that says that substances below one tonne are inherently less dangerous than substances above one tonne. there should be a record here, too. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also voted in favour of the langen report in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy and i think that is correct. on the other hand, i also understand that our colleagues on the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection have different emphases. i think that is also understandable, because otherwise we would not need two committees, but could do all this in one committee. i also believe that it is only through this tension between different committees that something sensible will emerge in the end. i have had some difficulties with the schörling report - i will say this quite frankly - . the main difficulty is perhaps that i believe that substances should be evaluated not only on the basis of their hazard, but also on the basis of their properties. in this respect, they are not easily substitutable, at least not all of them. there are substances that are dangerous, but useful in certain chemical processes. secondly, i believe that the danger must be based on scientific evidence. it has to be verifiable. i'm always very suspicious of the possibility of danger or risk. it's very subjective and can be understood, but not verified. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. safety does not increase with the number of restrictions or regulations, but with the actual testing. well, that's something to look at, too. and one more little observation: what materials are actually socially necessary? how do you tell? who would notice that? i have some things to clarify. i like to listen. i would also remind the president that we are discussing this evening a turnover of 800 billion euros: 400 for energy and 400 for chemicals. that's a lot for two and a half hours. (applause from the centre)
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0341/2001) by mrs flemming, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the communication from the commission to the council (com (2000) 477 - c5-0634/2000 - 2000/2298 (cos)) and the european parliament and the economic and social committee on the pricing and sustainable management of water resources.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. water is the number one food. sustainable management of water and the protection of water resources are therefore essential to me. one tool to achieve this is a cost-covering water price, as required by the water framework directive, which includes both environmental and infrastructure and treatment costs. but there is also a need for incentives to use water sustainably. a basic price for basic services and increasing prices for additional consumption will encourage the careful use of water. it is also necessary to ensure that the basic price takes social aspects into account, because access to water must be possible for the economically weaker members of society. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the reduction of water subsidies in agriculture and the conservation of water resources can only be achieved by promoting rural development and by opening up new sources of income for farmers. it is also necessary to ask the polluters to pay for the water, which means that the polluter principle must be applied. in addition, every water user in europe should be provided with proof of how much water he has consumed and how his water price is composed. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european water supply network, the development of a european water supply network, and the establishment of a european water supply network. i believe that cooperation between public and private companies, using private know-how and capital, is an option for making the best use of water resources from an ecological and economic point of view, without abandoning regional water supplies. i am not talking about liberalization and competition at any price, but about ensuring an efficient ecological water supply.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. the commission's communication reflects on how the requirements of the water framework directive should be implemented in practice. the report by mrs flemming provides valuable additional suggestions. the average household water consumption varies between 120 litres in belgium and 213 litres in italy per inhabitant per day. at dm 7.72 per cubic metre for drinking water supply and waste water disposal, germany is by far the world's leading country in terms of costs, next to denmark, but the third-least in terms of consumption. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we must not make the mistake of lumping liberalization and privatization together. privatization may well be one of the appropriate means of achieving the objective of article 9 of the water framework directive. but i would also like to draw attention to the issue of the division of powers in the context of the discussion on the content of the new intergovernmental conference. until this question is satisfactorily resolved, we should not create any additional uncertainty in this sensitive area of water supply and disposal. for some member states, not only the southern ones, but also for ireland and austria, for example, the different aspects of the subject of water and water prices are of the highest political sensitivity. i would therefore urge you to refrain from mentioning or even attacking individual member states. this is especially true when, as in paragraph 28, there is an attempt to achieve through the european level, for obvious partisan reasons, demands which are not to be enforced in domestic policy. in addition, the questions raised in this case are very marginal, if any, to the subject of the report. we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report, and we are going to vote for the report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report assumes that the easily accessible freshwater resources are largely exploited and that sustainable water use and savings can be achieved by introducing an economic lever which would encourage responsible use of water. this is a world-wide demand. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the social costs are often negatively charged. the cost of clean water will depend on the right investment, on scientific skills and on how best to distribute the tasks according to the polluter principle. the member states are free to decide. it's gonna be hard to keep up with the schedule.
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0323/2001) by mrs corbey, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the implementation of directive 94/62/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 1994 on packaging and packaging waste (directive 2000/239/ec).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commissioner, the rapporteur! thank you very much for your active work on this report. first of all, i would like to ask the commissioner a question: why have you presented a report to parliament on the implementation of the packaging directive when the amendment to the packaging regulation is already on the table? i would like to know whether there is a strategy for this, whether you need more time for a new policy debate and whether you are on the way to moving from a product policy to a material policy. but that's, as i'm finding out at the moment, wasted love because you're busy with other things. mrs corbey, you are right when you say that packaging waste is growing, and that is why it is absolutely right that we should deal with this and the future packaging regulation. i just think that we have to discuss first what the member states have actually done. the old packaging regulations from the 1990s were correct, or did we make mistakes? have we really seen this as it has developed today? aren't there a lot of gaps? databases you mentioned this are mostly missing. is the transposition into national law really timely and in the way we want it to be, and is the hierarchy of the packaging regulation really as flexible as we need it to be in the future? i don't think that's the case! but we must concentrate on these important things in the context of the commission's mandate to us, namely a report on implementation. unfortunately, it is not our job at the moment to worry about what the rates should be for landfilling, recycling and so on. i am very sorry about that. i've got a whole bunch of points. but since i have already lost the first few minutes, i will give up and continue the debate in the next round.
- mr. speaker, could you repeat briefly the question you asked?
- i'm not sure. i would like to know why you are submitting a report on the implementation of the packaging regulation, since we all know that the amendment to the packaging regulation is already there. my question is, does this have to do with a new strategy? is it true that in the future you want to move away from product policy to waste streams?
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0359/2001) by mr berenguer fuster, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on insurance intermediation (com (2000) 511 - c5-0484/2000 - 2000/0213 (cod)).
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. i still have that childish ambition to be able to close at midnight. even today, we've gotten it to 10 seconds! (the sitting was closed at 12.00 noon) the next item is the report (doc.
the committee on budgets' opinion was drawn up by mrs lenz (gue/ngl, b). - mr president, i have to go. i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular. i would also like to thank him for the debate he has initiated. the broad public debate he talks about is something he has really tried to put into practice. he has tried to reach out to many people in parliament and outside parliament, in research circles, in order to have a sensible discussion and to prepare a good compromise. i must say that from the point of view of the committee on budgets i support the rapporteur, but i am in a dilemma because i must also say that my group has reservations and will not agree to this decision in its entirety. i am, however, called upon to do so first of all as the author of the opinion of the committee on budgets. the budget for this sixth framework programme is, it must be said, in a good frame. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we can really add european value with this proposal. the commission has also discussed how to simplify the procedures, because this was also a concern of our committee on budgets, so that we can get our appropriations more quickly. there are good proposals from the commission here and we are very confident that this acceleration of the procedure can be achieved so that the project partners can access their funds more quickly. at the same time, we have insisted once again that the small project partners should be taken into account, that small projects should not be ignored in the context of streamlining procedures, because a lot of important work has been done in the field of small projects. there is a point of order which concerns our group in particular, namely the question of renewable energies and the question of euratom funds. i have to say from the point of view of the group that we have problems here because renewable energy has not been developed to the extent that it should have been, and that too much has been granted, particularly in the area of fusion. (applause from the centre)
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has dealt intensively with the research framework programme. we have made many proposals on sustainable development, food safety and other subjects, many of which have been accepted by the committee on industry, trade, research and energy, which is responsible for these matters. we have focused on medical research because we have seen that this is where the greatest need for change compared to the commission's proposal is. the commission's approach of promoting only biotechnology in the context of health is too narrow. other areas of research are also promising for health and need to be supported. i thank the rapporteur, mr caudron, for his efforts in this respect, and i thank the shadow rapporteurs, in particular mr van velzen, who was also concerned about this. unfortunately, the committee on industry has not followed us on the ethical limits of medical research. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has made a clear statement in favour of research and the cure of disease, but also in favour of clear boundaries in the interests of human dignity. in particular, our committee is calling for the exclusion of consumer research on human embryos from the research framework programme. this ban is necessary not only because human life is at stake, but also because we must counter the danger of the female body being seen as raw material for industry. embryo research is not possible without the provision of female eggs, and egg donation is a very stressful and medical risk for a woman. that's why many feminists are against consumer embryo research. as i said, the industry committee did not follow us. that is why i have tabled a motion with mr fiori, which is in line with the committee on the environment. this is also the line followed in the united states of america. yes to stem cell research, but no to consumer embryo research. the americans are not to be blamed for being anti-research. i therefore ask for support for amendment no 332 from mr fiori, mr liese and others. (applause from the centre)
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. the commission is not as the author of the opinion of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, i tabled a number of amendments, aimed in particular at the incorporation of the principle of gender mainstreaming in the sixth research framework programme. this is the biggest programme we are going to decide on with some 17 billion. the emphasis on other subjects has, as mrs fraisse has just said, also pushed women's research and the development of the whole human potential for research and science into the background. in 1999, 66% of the research staff in the public sector and 72% of the research staff in the higher education sector were men. in only a few countries did the proportion of women exceed 40%, in ireland and greece. only in portugal was the ratio balanced at 53%. in germany, women are particularly underrepresented in academic teaching, at 9%. the highest figures were in finland at 36%. it is therefore in the european interest and brings added value to involve women in research and teaching, from planning to decision-making to project implementation, as well as in eu initiatives for prizes and competitions in all disciplines. i had already called for this in the plenary in connection with the report by eryl mcnally on women and science, and to implement it the commission has set up a gender unit which can also report on initial successes. through targeted efforts, nearly 40% of women have been appointed to eu research bodies, as well as to marie curie fellowships, and the achievements of the fifth framework programme must be continued. the doubling of the budget for the science and society sub-sector can help to achieve this, and gender research must also be carried out in this area. one last point: in my language, the whole design must be revised in gender-neutral language, because we are putting the future of the young female scientists first.
- mr president, i have to go. i want to say something about the money first. i think that the 17.5 billion euro is too little, especially in view of the ambitious goals that europeans are constantly setting themselves. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. but that's the way it is. i hope that at least these 17.5 billion will be approved by the council, otherwise - and i agree with mr van velzen - there will be trouble. european research policy is very much perceived in terms of participation in research programmes. i would urge the commission to do everything possible to facilitate the submission and processing of applications so that researchers can spend their time not filling out paperwork but actually doing research. the third point is merger. we have a lot of arguments about this, and i respect that there are different opinions on this. the only thing i cannot accept is that the results of these studies are so far away. we also urge young people to take care of their age early on, even though from a young person's point of view age is far, far away. it is also a precaution. whether or not a fusion power plant is built later on is for our descendants to decide. we should give them that option. i have always attached great importance to the european union's involvement in very sensitive issues which have been beyond our reach, such as new methods of detecting and removing landmines, and fortunately we have had such a programme within the european union for some years now and have achieved remarkable successes. i would urge that this programme be continued, ambitiously expanded and coordinated, if possible, by one hand within the commission. i am thinking here of the joint research centre, whose achievements to date should also be highlighted here. the same is true of an attempt to involve european union research in the elimination of weapons of mass destruction, i.e. nuclear, biological and chemical weapons. i would remind you that the commission intends to make a statement this afternoon on the prohibition of biological weapons. it has to do with the fight against terrorism. the former soviet union still has huge stockpiles of biological and chemical weapons which cannot be disposed of because of a lack of resources and often a lack of technology. the european union could also do something here for the security of europe and the world. as regards bioethics, i would urge that we follow the request of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, which simply takes into account the fact that there are different legal views on this subject in our member states, and we as european legislators cannot replace the member states in this area. this respect for sovereignty is reflected in this proposal.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the draft sixth research framework programme is an ethical minefield. amendment no 22, which provides for community funds for embryo research, is totally unacceptable because it is a flagrant violation of human dignity. embryo should not be degraded into research material! in four member states, including the federal republic of germany, embryo research is prohibited. we cannot allow community funds to be used to finance something which is illegal in these member states. the research on embryonic stem cells would also provide an incentive to create even more surplus embryos. that is why we reject it absolutely! the bill even supports germline therapy. the european parliament would thus be really manoeuvring into the political and scientific fringes of the world, because no one in the scientific community is calling for or demanding germline therapy, on the contrary, they are calling for rejection. i therefore ask you to remove these ethical mines from the research framework programme and to adopt a responsible research framework programme.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank gérard caudron for the difficult work. i think in german we say it like this: it is easier to keep a sack of fleas than to put the various interests together in this parliament, and in that respect i thank you very much for having done it in such a good way. we want to use the research framework programme to help strengthen the competitiveness of european industry. we want to support and underpin our european policy through research. we also want to bring research closer to the citizens. i am therefore glad that in this last section we have improved the commission's proposal somewhat in three important steps. i believe that this means, firstly, that we should make research subject to the principle of sustainable development, as is also provided for in article 6 of the amsterdam treaty and in the gothenburg council decision. we must reconcile ecological needs with economic and social needs, and it is therefore right and necessary to place research under this primacy. this is also reflected in some of the amendments in the field of energy and sustainable transport. secondly, i believe it is important and necessary that we connect research and society, on the one hand by considering the consequences of research for society in any research effort, i.e. by carrying out a technology impact assessment, but also by actively involving citizens in the dialogue on research and by strengthening the dialogue between research and society. i think it is right and important that we should increase the funds in this area. the third element in bringing research closer to the citizens is certainly the strengthening of the participation possibilities of smes, universities and small research institutes, because there is of course a great potential for innovative ideas, but also a lot of people, a lot of europeans. we must therefore ensure that the procedures are simple, transparent and fast, and above all that those who are rejected receive a reply, that the researchers are taken seriously. if we really do the three things, the question of sustainability, the question of dialogue between research and society and the effective management of smes, then i am sure that research will not only enter the minds of europeans, but also their hearts! (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i too would like to begin by thanking the commissioner for his excellent work. i would also like to thank our rapporteur, mr caudron, for his two excellent reports. i would like to thank you for the good and constructive cooperation in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy. i too have enjoyed it very much, thanks in part to the good work of our shadow reporters. i would like to address two issues. first, there is genetic research. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of controls on the use of genetically modified organisms. however, i believe that when human embryos are to be used for research, clear limits must be drawn for ethical reasons. some member states, including germany, prohibit the use of human embryos for research purposes and, of course, for activities beyond that, such as the cloning of human life. i think it is a matter of consideration and respect for the other member states to exclude from the common european research funding activities which are so strongly concerned with ethical responsibility, and i therefore urge you to support amendment no 334 by mr posselt and amendment no 332 by mr liese. the second subject i would like to touch on briefly is the subject of fusion research. i am in favour of encouraging fusion research. i think that nuclear fusion may be one of the technologies of the future. we have very little carbon dioxide emissions that are harmful to the climate. we also have very little radioactive waste from fusion and, in particular, no significant long-term contamination, as is the case with nuclear fission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr caudron. i know from experience what an immense amount of work it takes to bring a framework programme, at least in draft form, to completion. we shall now adopt this programme solemnly today or tomorrow. it's time for the big words, the words that are necessary. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for your cooperation with the commission. but paper is patient. we'll have a good program, but the work starts now. what do we do with all these goals that are on paper? how are we going to achieve these goals? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we therefore urgently need to make this whole project concrete. we urgently need the specific programmes. that's one point. we also urgently need further cooperation with the commission in amending these specific programmes here in parliament if necessary. secondly, it is not worthwhile to provide 17, 18, 16 billion euros - it has not yet been decided - if they do not go to the places where they are really needed, namely universities, industry and small and mediumsized enterprises. it is therefore essential that the arrangements governing participation in this framework programme are practical, that they are very close to the reality of the world of research, that they are very close to the needs of the companies that want to innovate with the help of these funds. we must not forget that research and innovation are not ends in themselves. the aim of research and innovation is to bring products to market, to improve our competitiveness. this can only be achieved if participation is high, if the procurement instruments are transparent and if everyone knows where they stand between finland and sicily or greece. the commission is not only starting work for the commission officials, it is also starting work for us. after the framework programme means before the next framework programme, but means mainly during implementation. here we as parliament will be looking very closely at how much continuity there is between the fifth and sixth framework programmes, how reliable the instruments used by the commission are and how this money is spent. we will also carry out an ex post check. thank you very much, i look forward to the next years of cooperation!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. research policy is one of the areas where we clearly need more europe. munich is one of the most advanced research centres in the european union, and franz josef strauss laid the foundations for the european aerospace industry 30 years ago. the fact that the research policy has always drawn clear ethical boundaries has never been to the detriment of this research site. on the contrary! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections. for even if human life is saved by killing other human life, this is ethically unacceptable in my eyes. it is cannibalism! i am glad that the european parliament has supported this line with a clear majority in all decisions since 1988, since the ghergo report, and that the enquete committee of the german bundestag supported this line with a large majority on monday evening, on the basis of the fiori report which we adopted with a large majority in our committee on human genetics last week. i would therefore greatly regret it if this important and excellent research framework programme were to be combined with an attempt to undermine the clear ethical line of the european parliament in the field of embryo protection, that is to say, human protection. i would appeal to you to accept the scallon/posselt amendment and, if it is not adopted, to support the liese/fiori compromise amendment and reject all the other motions on this subject. the european parliament has a reputation to lose, a reputation which has been at the forefront of those who have been working for the protection of human rights for over 10 years.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way in which the commission has dealt with this matter. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr salafranca sánchez-neyra on his comprehensive and clear report. it is time for the european union to revise its strategy for relations with latin america. the european union has a duty to help the people of cuba, and the european union has a duty to help the people of cuba, and the european union has a duty to help the people of cuba. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are rich, industrialized enclaves surrounded by regions of enormous poverty. we therefore also call for the pursuit of sustainable economic development, which in the area of structural assistance should in particular promote small and mediumsized enterprises. where appropriate and necessary, the involvement of affected groups and civil society, in particular indigenous groups, must be considered in advance. this must also be particularly true of the puebla panama plan. the european union should only participate in this by means of agreements whose content is clearly defined. technology and knowledge transfer, but also the opening of the european market to the products of the partner countries are further steps which must be taken quickly. we in the european parliament want an economic partnership on an equal footing with the citizens of latin america and not just with a few large companies.
chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the report on the proposal for a council regulation introducing temporary safeguard measures for shipbuilding is of particular importance because shipbuilding in the european union is a sector of strategic importance. i should like to take this opportunity to express the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which unfortunately does not agree with the rapporteur's opinion. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs riis-jørgensen, for her excellent work, especially in the very short time available. i would therefore like to thank her, even though she has difficulty in accepting the legality of this proposal. we have of course examined this as a committee and have come to the conclusion that the legal basis has been chosen correctly and that the concerns about the legality of the proposal have been wrongly expressed. i would therefore like to say a few words about the content of the proposal and the report. i would like to stress the good cooperation with the committee on industry, trade, research and energy. i think we have made a good proposal. i very much hope that the commission will accept parliament's amendments. in its conclusions of 5 december 2000, the industry/energy council confirmed the end of operating aid to shipbuilding from 1 january 2001, in accordance with the council decision of 1998. however, it was already indicated at that time that the commission might change its position following a review in the event of a failure of the negotiations with korea. we must note that korea has not complied with the 2000 agreement on price and subsidy discipline. the commission therefore had to consider whether, in the event of the failure of the negotiations with korea, which continues to violate the existing trade agreements by granting state subsidies, a temporary aid mechanism for the european shipbuilding industry should be proposed. the proposal is now before us because the negotiations have failed and the proposed safeguard measures have to be evaluated. the committee considers that the proposal is inadequate because it is limited to container ships and tankers for the transport of petroleum products and to chemical tankers, except those made of stainless steel. the proposal allows for an operating aid of 6% and, in special cases, up to 14%. the commission also proposes to open a dispute settlement procedure at the wto. the aid is to be granted only until the procedure is closed, at the latest by 31 december 2002. we believe that the european parliament should stick to its position of initiating a dispute settlement procedure. the proposal for temporary safeguard measures presented needs to be improved, however, since the three market segments it covers account for only 20% of european shipbuilding. in contrast, virtually all market segments in the european union are affected by unfair competition from korea. in particular, the categories of vessels which will also be the subject of the complaint to the wto must be included. only then will our message to korea be clear and convincing. i think that your agreement to amendments nos 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 is of the utmost importance. we also consider that the duration of the agreement is insufficient. we therefore propose that the safeguard measures should be applied at least for the duration of the current regulation 1540/98 on aid to shipbuilding, which expires on 31 december 2003, or possibly even until the wto procedure is concluded. as the european parliament, as the european union, we must not allow unfair trading practices to damage the european economy and put jobs at risk, otherwise such unfair trading practices will spread to other sectors and damage growth and jobs too. at the same time, however, we must also carefully weigh up the justified protectionist measures against the anti-market protection of certain sectors by state aid which prevents fair competition. i believe that the committee's proposal reflects this concern and i would ask that this report be accepted and that the commission declare its willingness to accept the amendments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am speaking on behalf of the rapporteur for the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy and mr valdivielso de cué, not because he is against the report, but because he cannot be present. in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy the proposals put forward by mrs randzio-plath have a very large majority: 39 votes in favour, 9 against. the point is that we are sending a signal against the dumping policy of south korea, which has brought european shipbuilding to the brink of ruin in recent decades by maintaining subsidies and benefits for companies which are in bankruptcy. we have been pursuing a policy of getting along with south korea for over a year now. on 5 june 2000 there was such a protocol. south korea has not complied. we decided in december 2000 to take this case to the wto panel. south korea has not responded. the commission was therefore right to decide in july that temporary aid of up to 14% for shipbuilding could be paid by the national authorities, not from the european fund, for a certain number of vessels until the end of 2002. it's about this question. we want to extend the vessels to ferries for trains, passengers and cars, to natural gas and petroleum gas vessels, and we want to extend the deadline to 2003, so we want a two-year period. we ask the house to follow this draft report and to reject the liberal group's motion for a resolution rejecting the entire draft report. south korea has it in hand. none of us wants subsidies in the long run. but it is our only chance of putting pressure on the european shipbuilding industry in this difficult matter.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. my side may have lost a crucial vote, but the process must continue. we must now see that the council forms an opinion. if we postpone and delay this, the council can continue to hide behind its inaction. i therefore ask that we reject the rapporteur's proposal and that we now take the final vote so that the ball can be put in the council's court. we still have the second reading and the conciliation procedure. delaying at this time will not help the matter. we want to move forward on this matter and that is why i ask that mr meijer's request be rejected. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i would like to support mr jarzembowski for another reason. the plenary voted by a large majority to substantially amend a commission proposal. the commission must also accept that parliament substantially changes a commission proposal. that's why i'm in favor of the trial going forward. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already done so. i would ask the liberal group, having accepted motions 48 and 49 earlier, whether motion 47 is not automatically dropped. that is my question, because we have decided that the commission must make proposals to that effect. this should have eliminated the need for the 47th recital.
- mr president, i have to go. it was announced that amendment no 35 would not be considered because it does not concern all the language versions. but it is about introducing gender neutral language throughout the proposal and i ask that you make sure that gender neutral language is used throughout the research framework programme. (applause from the centre)
the council has not yet adopted the common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. my speech is intended to take stock of this and to inform you of the initiatives which have been taken and which will be developed by the council. i shall therefore concentrate on afghanistan, which is at the heart of the current crisis, but i shall also mention the situation in the middle east. the council has reacted with determination and clarity to the emergency situation in afghanistan. the european council, at its meetings on 21 september and 19 october, defined the framework for european union action, the main elements of which are as follows. firstly, solidarity with the united states and support for action taken in selfdefence and in accordance with un security council resolution 1368, on the understanding that it must be targeted action to spare civilian populations. secondly, a contribution to the anti-terrorist coalition formed under the auspices of the united nations. the troika visited pakistan, iran, saudi arabia, syria and egypt at the end of september, where it also met with the leaders of the arab league. recently, a tour of central asian countries was carried out. the eu-russia summit on 3 october and the european conference on 20 october provided an opportunity to discuss the efforts to be made at international level. the november session of the general assembly will be a further opportunity to strengthen this coalition. in concrete terms, the european union is articulating its strategy for afghanistan around five major axes: priority for emergency humanitarian aid, the central role of the un, the search for a just and lasting internal political solution, the importance of a reconstruction plan for the country and, finally, the need to give a regional dimension to the stabilisation plan. it should be noted that these five priorities were clearly endorsed by the general affairs council in luxembourg on 17 october and by the informal summit in ghent on 19 october. in terms of emergency humanitarian aid, some eur 320 million has been mobilised to date to address the refugee and displaced persons crisis and the effects of famine. the main difficulty is access to people in need, which requires the full cooperation of afghanistan's neighbouring states. the presidency has taken various steps to this end. in terms of mobilizing and distributing aid, close coordination is ensured between the cooperation agencies of the member states, echo and the various international humanitarian organizations, whether the unhcr or the world food programme, not to mention the icrc and the many ngos. secondly, the central role of the un. the european union recognises that the united nations alone has international legitimacy in the search for an internal political solution. the role of the united nations will also be crucial in the implementation of a reconstruction plan for the country. the european union therefore relies on the secretary-general and his representative for afghanistan in their efforts. it also pays particular attention to the plan which has just been presented by the special representative of the un secretary-general, mr brahimi. the council shall coordinate its action to determine the best way of contributing to the implementation of this plan. as regards the internal political solution, it is important for the european union that the future afghan authorities be elected by the afghans, that they be representative of the ethnic groups present and that they respect and promote human rights, humanitarian law and the rule of law in general; the european union is also committed to the principle of non-alignment, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the middle east. the european union prefers not to express itself openly in favour of one solution or another at the moment, leaving this role to the special representative of the un secretary-general and to the afghans themselves. as regards the reconstruction plan, the european union considers that, in view of the internal political developments in afghanistan, there is an urgent need to draw up a reconstruction plan for the country. it wishes to be associated with it, as do many other actors, including donor countries and international organisations. it also considers that this will be a long-term project, involving a long-term commitment from the participants in the plan. the european union is convinced that the peace process in afghanistan will be completed by the end of the year. in other words, it is a question of convincing afghanistan's neighbouring states, as well as certain other powers in the region, that pacification of afghanistan will also be to their advantage. the security concerns of these states must be legitimately taken into account to prevent the continuation of the foreign interference that has so often undermined afghanistan and fuelled its internal conflicts. the european union considers the following countries and international organisations to be essential elements of any regional strategy on the afghan issue. this is the case for pakistan, iran, india, uzbekistan, tajikistan, turkmenistan, china, russia and the organisation of the islamic conference. of course, we cannot help but mention the latest developments. events have accelerated in recent days with the capture of mazar-e-sharif and kabul. these events are evidence that the taliban regime and terrorist networks are gradually losing control of afghanistan. they are a further step towards achieving the objectives of the international coalition, namely the eradication of terrorist networks. at this crucial time for the future of afghanistan, the president-in-office of the european council, mr verhofstadt, yesterday reiterated the council's position that there will never be stability in afghanistan unless a stable, legitimate, democratic government is installed in the country, representative of all ethnic groups. it will also be necessary for this government to adhere fully to the principles of human rights. he also stressed that the united nations should play a central role in helping the afghans to form a government. the union intends to support the un plans in this direction and urges the northern alliance to contribute fully to these efforts. the union is also ready to help afghanistan to devise and implement a comprehensive reconstruction plan, which is an essential guarantee of peace. this project does not in any way alter the priority given to the urgent humanitarian aid that the afghan people need more than ever. the president-in-office of the european council also stressed the regional dimension of the afghan problem. while it is obvious that the afghans themselves will have to decide who will govern them in the future, the fact remains that all countries in the region must feel reassured by a new afghan government. it is in this spirit that the president of the european council will, together with the president of the commission, begin a visit to india and pakistan on 23 and 24 november. finally, as regards the middle east, the situation in the middle east remains a central concern of the european union. the violence and lack of confidence between the parties are preventing the resumption of political dialogue, which should begin with the implementation of the tenet plan and the recommendations of the mitchell report and should eventually lead to a just and lasting solution to the conflict, based on un security council resolutions 242 and 338 and the madrid and oslo principles. in the context of a strategy of relay diplomacy, the european union, whether representatives of the member states or the council, is constantly present on the ground. the action of the high representative mr solana, the special envoy mr moratinos and several european ministers made it possible, after many vicissitudes, to hold the peres-arafat meeting on 26 september. unfortunately, israelis and palestinians have failed to put into practice this new attempt to establish a ceasefire. the euromed conference, held in brussels on 5 and 6 november, provided an opportunity for a wide-ranging exchange of views on the question of stability and security in the mediterranean region. it has, among other things, enabled the parties to take a further step towards the re-establishment of a high-level dialogue which could, in the long run, restore the confidence necessary for a resumption of final status negotiations. the president of the european council and the president-in-office of the council will be visiting the middle east again this week. they will be accompanied by the president of the commission and the high representative, mr solana, whose important role is recognised by all parties. the mission, which falls within the mandate given to the belgian presidency by the informal council in ghent, will be an opportunity to remind the parties once again of the clear position of the european union on the objectives to be achieved by the final negotiations, namely the establishment of a viable and democratic state for the palestinians and the end of the occupation of their territory, and the right of the israelis to live in peace and security within internationally recognised borders. the european union will also recall that the search for a comprehensive and lasting peace in the region requires that due account be taken of the israeli-syrian and israeli-lebanese aspects of the conflict, the resolution of which must be based on the same principles. in conclusion, as you can see, the european union has not spared its efforts to try to bring the middle east closer together, and will continue to do so as long as necessary. the european union also continues to follow closely developments in afghanistan and the whole of the central asian region. it will continue to work within the framework of the anti-terrorist coalition to combat all forms of support for international terrorism. (applause) i would like to thank
commission. - madam president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the situation in afghanistan is changing very rapidly. almost every hour brings its share of fresh and dramatic news. the military strategy against the taliban is a success. nevertheless, it is important to emphasize that, despite the encouraging developments of these last days, the task is far from finished. the military component of the campaign has not yet achieved all its objectives and we have always made it clear that the humanitarian and diplomatic component is of vital importance. in the light of what has happened, it is appropriate to redouble efforts in this area. the european union must also make a stronger effort to establish a broad-based government for the afghan people. as mrs durant has also stressed, we strongly support the process being led by the united nations under the auspices of ambassador brahimi. in addition, we must take advantage of the new military situation to increase our humanitarian effort. the commission is playing an active role on both fronts. last week commissioner patten met with mr wolfensohn, president of the world bank, and this week he met with ambassador brahimi in new york. the commission will work closely with the world bank and other parties to assess needs and contribute to the reconstruction effort in afghanistan. the commission does not intend to speculate at this stage on the precise amounts involved. the first step will be for the international community to assess the urgent needs and define, in consultation with the afghan people, exactly what needs are. in the meantime, we are working to ensure that the €52 million of aid allocated under the echo programme for 2001 and the €22.5 million for displaced persons in 2001 reach those in need. in addition, we are providing €23.5 million in food aid, or about 36,300 tonnes, through the world food programme, and we are giving €4.5 million to ngos to provide the population with food, seeds and tools, for a total of about €100 million in aid this year. in addition, we have already planned to ensure that these levels are at least maintained in 2002. you know that the commission has not spared any effort since the events of 9/11. you also know that in the space of a few days we have presented new measures to combat terrorism in europe, including a common definition of terrorist acts, a european arrest warrant to replace the cumbersome extradition system in force between member states, a tightening of the rules on money laundering and, finally, a legislative mechanism to freeze quickly the assets of an individual or an organisation throughout europe, as soon as it is identified as a potential source of terrorist financing. the commission has also been quick to take measures to improve air safety, from access to cockpits to baggage surveillance. at the same time, european ministers collectively decided that member states should be able to protect airlines from the worst consequences of 9/11, for example by providing them with insurance cover against acts of terrorism, which commercial insurers no longer offered, while avoiding a war of subsidies that would distort competition. the european union is also providing massive humanitarian aid inside and outside afghanistan. the eu and its member states have already mobilised some eur 310 million to alleviate the suffering of the afghan people. this effort, second only to the united states, is largely unrecognized, but it has already saved lives. in addition, the echo humanitarian office has acted with impressive diligence in translating the commitments into action. under the leadership of president romano prodi, the commission is also involved in the crucial diplomatic effort, and minister durant has also mentioned the trips that mr prodi will have to make in the coming days and weeks. this is obviously a sign of the european will to achieve a balanced international diplomatic action. as you know, in the days following the attacks, mr patten, together with mr louis michel, belgian minister for foreign affairs, representing the belgian presidency of the council of the eu, and mr solana, visited pakistan, iran, egypt, saudi arabia and syria. everywhere they went, they heard the same message: all of humanity must unite in the fight against terrorism. they discussed the need to strengthen cooperation ties in the region. the union has already taken a major trade initiative by improving access for pakistani exports to europe, and we hope to be able to conclude a free trade agreement with the six gulf cooperation council states soon. we will also make proposals for a trade and cooperation agreement with iran. we are also playing our full part in the efforts to relaunch the middle east peace process, not only by providing financial support to a palestinian authority in enormous difficulty, but also by working to implement the mitchell report, to which the european union is a co-signatory. mr peres and mr arafat, as mrs durant has pointed out, both attended a euro-mediterranean conference in brussels this week. as you can see, the european union has a common foreign policy, but it is not a single policy. each country, each institution, is harnessing its own strengths and putting its own resources to work for the common cause. the determined action of individual member states strengthens the common effort, and vice versa. the fact that member states take independent initiatives, especially in a crisis, is not a sign of a failure of the union. it is the illustration of his very nature. in conclusion, i can say on behalf of the commission that we are all aware that the events of 11 september changed the game and we have recognised that the attacks on new york and washington were an attack not only on the united states but on all free and open societies. the threat is a common threat, which is why it requires a concerted response. the european union, and the european commission in particular, is making a full contribution to this common objective and we intend to continue along this path. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the day before yesterday, a plane crashed over new york, and we were all holding our breath again, because we were afraid that it was another terrorist attack. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. but this assumption on monday shows that terrorism affects our lives and we cannot simply go on with the agenda. that is why we must say that we must see terrorism as a huge challenge, a spiritual, political, economic and also military challenge. i welcome what you have said, madam president-in-office. it's identical to what i wrote down on my keywords: we must eliminate the terrorist networks. that's what afghanistan is about now. we have seen the images, the images of the joy in kabul, but also the dead who have obviously been massacred there, and our demand to the northern alliance, led by ahmed shah massud, whom we were able to welcome here in april, a responsible figure, is that it also behaves in afghanistan, in kabul, in such a way that it is a good representative, also for human dignity and a better future for this sorely tried country. what we need now - and i agree with the president-in-office - is action by the united nations. it is good that our american friends are involving the united nations in this way. but what we also need, and the european union must play an important role in this, is an alliance, a coalition for the reconstruction of afghanistan. we must not make the mistake of the 1980s and 1990s again, leaving afghanistan alone, but must help afghanistan. the role of the european union, madam president-in-office, is rather sad in this whole conflict. of course, military matters are primarily national matters. we are not yet ready to act as europeans in a truly united way. i am very sorry to hear what some of the countries of the european union have done in recent weeks. first there was the tripartite meeting on the occasion of the council in ghent, and then there was the meeting in london. i have to tell you, i was embarrassed. we do not have self-appointed leaders within the european union, but we have this european union with a council presidency and a commission. in london, people invited themselves, including the president of the council, which was particularly embarrassing to me. the uk, france, italy, spain, germany, the netherlands and the belgian presidency were represented in london. greece, portugal, austria, finland, sweden, luxembourg, ireland and denmark were not represented. i would have wished the belgian presidency - and i have a very positive attitude towards this presidency, especially towards prime minister guy verhofstadt - to have protested against such a meeting, because it would have been the role of the council presidency to invite such a meeting and not to ask for an invitation so that one could also be in london. i hope that in future we will have different procedures and that there will not be another such split in the european union. of course, you should also learn from your mistakes. i hope that we will learn from these mistakes and that it is crucial for our group to act collectively and not just at the level of government cooperation. we want this community europe and we expect the council presidency to take decisive and courageous action in this respect. we are behind the presidency of the council when it acts in this way, but we are also behind the commission. mr busquin, i also ask the commission, its president and the whole college to make europe's voice heard. the commission must intervene, it must speak its mind and it must not take things lightly, as we have seen in the last weeks and months. we have a chance if we are determined ourselves, and i can tell you on behalf of our group that we will support both the council presidency and the commission very strongly if the european union's common interest is made clear. we would like to ask you to do so. if you do, we'll be on your side! (applause from the centre)
, chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think it's been proven that in afghanistan, the strategy of the anti-terrorist coalition is the right one. it has also been shown that this is not only a hunt for terrorists, but also a liberation of the people from their own government, which is not loved by their own people. this is very obvious, and i think we should say it openly, to make it clear that we are not against the muslim population, but want to build a future of freedom together with them. and of course, that also means, and this is what the afghan story shows, that we should do this with our own government, respecting their own decisions, and not have to get into the details of that. i believe that this is also extremely important if we are to succeed in setting up a reconciliation government in afghanistan. the european union must intervene and help with its prevention and civilian crisis management capabilities, in order to help organize reconstruction in that country, as far as the people concerned wish it to be done. the european union has also shown in recent weeks that it can make a significant contribution where it is able to function. i believe that the anti-terrorist coalition in the middle east would not have been able to function in the way it does if it had not been for the european union and the troika with their visits there. on the other hand, we must recognize that in the military sphere, where we are particularly weak, we have achieved special bilateralism and directorate solutions. i think it shows that we must be more inclined towards the community method in the whole field of security and defence policy and that it must become clear that even our larger states, which think they still have a role to play, have in reality had no influence on all the strategies that have been implemented, and that for this reason we will only play a role if we act together, if we achieve our goal of 60 000 rapid deployment forces by 2003 and if we credibly underpin the prevention and civilian crisis management through this third component. i also believe that this is something that needs to be discussed to a considerable extent with a view to laeken and in the context of the post-nice process. we have seen time and again in our foreign policy how our lack of structures prevents us from putting our weight on the scales. i think of the organizational chaos in the balkans, which has often been there, the issues of competition, not between solana and patten, but between the structures that are being built in parallel, which, according to all our experience, work against each other in the long term and not with each other. the commission's role is to ensure that the council is able to take decisions on the basis of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. i believe that these are the lessons of the past two months and that we should make the corresponding demands on the governments of our countries and that it is necessary, in the interests of the future viability of our peoples, to foster this community method even more strongly in the field of foreign and security policy in the future. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is nothing that has been said in this debate that i cannot support. i would like to add three points, however, which i think need to be emphasized more strongly. firstly, we cannot expect other countries to adopt a different security policy in the long term than we do. if we do not want the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, for example in this area, then the european union and its partners will have to make this clearer. secondly, there is clearly a paradigm shift and a change of strategy in the united states in the verification issue from the 1980s. in view of the dramatic nature of these issues since 9/11, the diplomatic restraint of the european union, which i often understand, is inappropriate on this issue, and i hope that the unilateralism of the united states just mentioned will be overcome from our own experience. the third problem is the crucial one. it is wrong to refer only to the united states. this paradigm shift has obviously taken place here in western europe as well. if i look at the model which is also under discussion for the b-weapons convention, namely the chemical weapons control organization, we are currently facing a financial crisis in which the member states of the european union are also involved. we have a deterioration in the control provisions since the original adoption of the convention. it may be symptomatic, madam minister. i asked the council about these matters in may of this year. i have no answer to this day and i simply suspect that the emphasis we are putting on this subject is too low here too.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs and internal market. the commission is not we've had a very busy day. we had research by mr caudron, we had port services by mr jarzembowski in the vote, we had shipbuilding by mrs riis-jørgensen, and when i looked at the people in the gallery i must say that these were all economically or socially important topics, but in many cases the audience understood only the railway station. the situation is different in this case. i myself inadvertently parked wrong in austria last summer and felt terribly guilty. but the bad conscience about this parking violation was very quickly overshadowed by the worry that it would cost me to transfer 200 austrian schillings for this ticket from germany to austria. so i quickly went to the austrian authorities and paid cash, because i was afraid that the charges for this ticket might be higher than the actual ticket. many citizens are like that! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will have the euro on 1 january. in german there is a word that means "to understand" in the sense of "to understand", but in this word "to understand" is also to touch. they will be able to touch the euro, and therefore confidence in the euro will increase from that point onwards. but we must also provide the citizen with the appropriate landscape so that he can understand payments within europe as being payments within the country of payment. that is why this regulation is incredibly important, and i very much regret that the commission has only come up with the idea today. i was already a draftsman of an opinion three quarters of a year ago. i was told by the commission that there were ladders between the banks, and i said that if there was money to be made on ladders, then there would be money to be made on ladders. if there's money to be made on highways, there's money to be made on highways. we need highways in the banking sector, too.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that the commission's proposal comes at just the right time - better late than never - and makes it clear that monetary union is being completed not only in the interests of markets and businesses but also in the interests of consumers. i would remind you that we have been dealing with this issue for more than 10 years, as the rapporteur rightly said, and we have always relied on self-regulation and voluntary agreement, but it has always been necessary to legislate in this sector, for example to organise faster and safer remittances and, above all, cheaper remittances. i am thinking here of the double fees paid by the recipients and senders of transfers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore welcome the regulation in its tenor and also in its form. it is not a price dictate, but it clearly states that domestic transfers and transfers in cross-border payments must be treated equally because we are in a single market. this internal market calls for a european payment system, not only like target for large payments, but also for bulk payments, for the transfer of small amounts. this is a matter for everyone: the father or mother who has children who are educated or study abroad, those of us who want to order books or pay for a trip or a hotel in another european country. this applies to those who have a holiday apartment or even a holiday home. this situation affects everyone, including migrant workers who receive their wages in one country and send them home to their families. we have to think about them. 24 euros for every 100 euros transferred on average is simply too much and unacceptable. i really reject mr maaten's proposal. all the tests have been started, we must now come to decisions. i must also say that i do not understand the admission of mr. karas. why should a proposal that has been overdue for over 15 years come in the next two or three weeks? i must also say that the proposals to postpone this until 2005 are, in my view, totally unacceptable. the most acceptable thing in my view is the rapporteur's argument, and that is why i think we must get a large majority in parliament for this long-term project, because a european payment system would have been a reality here long ago if the banks and savings banks had wanted it.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. - mr president, i have to go. the rapporteur proposes that you reject the commission's proposal. we in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market have a little bit of a stomachache about doing this without telling the commission why, at least without telling the commission in writing why. the result is that this directive cannot remain as it is. the committee on legal affairs and the internal market has also given some indications in its opinion. he's confined himself to his field. the proposal for a directive certainly includes the question of health protection. but this is not the subject of our committee. the question of whether to require a minimum tax of 140, 120, 100, 80 or 60 euros is certainly relevant in the context of health protection, but not for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. we were guided solely by legal considerations. the directive seems to have two major weaknesses, weaknesses which cannot be overcome by any reasonable consideration of the internal market. on the one hand, the system of minimum taxation is hampered by the problem of adding value added tax to this minimum tax. if i take a country which barely meets the minimum tax and also has a very low vat rate, i find that there are distortions of competition when i compare it with a country which may be slightly above the minimum tax and has a relatively high vat rate. we therefore think it appropriate to move from a minimum excise duty excluding vat in the future to a system which provides for a minimum tax including the vat associated with it. the second concerns article 3 (1). we believe that this proposal no longer provides a proper distinction between cigarettes and cigarillos or cigars. the proposal seeks to create the impression that cigarillos with filters are dark-covered cigarettes and are therefore taxed like cigarettes. we believe this is a dead end. there is certainly some debate about the health effects of filters, but it is probably indisputable that a cigarillo with a filter is at least a little bit healthier than a cigarillo without a filter. but if i then equate the cigarillo with a filter in the taxation of a cigarette, then i am - but i am not a cigarillo smoker! - punishing the essentially healthier product by taxing it like a cigarette. so i think that needs to be improved. we agree to a rejection. as hard as it sounds, it needs to be repaired by hand.
commission. – mr president, the position taken by the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the proposal under discussion has surprised me. it diverges considerably from the position taken by this parliament in 1996. at that time, parliament urged the commission to make proposals for upward harmonisation of tobacco prices, based upon higher duty rates across the union for reasons including health protection, and to consider measures to reduce the scope for price manipulation by cigarette producers applying widely diverging pre-tax on the markets of each member state. the present commission proposal is consistent with that opinion. that is why i say that the advice of the economic and monetary affairs committee has greatly surprised me. the commission is doing what parliament wanted in 1996 and therefore it is odd that the report should not accept the commission's proposal. the changes proposed will bring about increased convergence in duty rates within the european union and, as such, improve the functioning of the internal market, both now and as it will be after enlargement. they will also reduce the incentive for excise fraud within the union. more surprisingly – and mr blokland has just drawn attention to this – the draft report does not set out the reasons for rejecting the commission proposal. that is the least that the commission would have expected. according to the working document presented by the rapporteur to emac in june, the main justification is that the introduction of a minimum amount of taxation of eur 70 for cigarettes constitutes a shift towards specific taxation, and would disadvantage small- and medium-sized producers in southern member states. i would like to emphasise that this is emphatically not the view of the commission. the introduction of a fixed amount in euro does not alter the structure of excise duties on cigarettes. member states affected by the introduction of the fixed amount will retain the flexibility they enjoy at present to determine the proportions of the specific and ad valorem components of cigarette taxation, as other rules remain unchanged. i would also like to point out that the commission proposal has received broad support in the council. last week in the ecofin council the member states unanimously agreed a compromise text produced by the belgian presidency, which is clearly in line with the commission's proposal. for cigarette taxation, the most significant element is the introduction of a minimum amount of duty of eur 60 at the initial stage and eur 64 at a later stage, rather than the eur 70 proposed by the commission. the adoption of the proposal is also extremely important in view of the forthcoming enlargement of the union eastwards. mr folias has quite rightly drawn our attention to that aspect of the proposal. the existing minimum taxation requirement – the so-called 57% rule – allows for a higher degree of price manipulation and would not in itself be sufficient to reduce to a sustainable level the gap between the tax and price levels of the present member states and the candidate countries. such a situation would result in substantial revenue loss for present member states, especially those having borders with candidate countries. the requirement for a minimum amount of duty will avoid this happening and ensure the proper functioning of the internal market after enlargement. the commission is aware that achieving the amounts in euro will require a significant effort from most candidate countries. therefore, it has proposed that the council grant limited transitional periods to candidate countries for reaching the minimum rate of taxation. next, i was pleased to see that the two parliament committees that have issued opinions on the proposal – the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, with mr maaten as draftsman, and the committee for legal affairs and the internal market, with mr wieland as draftsman – accepted the general thrust of the proposal, subject to a number of amendments. most of the amendments proposed in mr maaten's report have been re-tabled in this plenary. the commission broadly shares the concerns of mr maaten on the need to pay more attention to health policy and to combat fraud and smuggling. i do not see why mr katiforis cannot accept the arguments relating to health. it is a well known fact – and i am sure he is aware of it – that 75% of smokers started before the age of 18. report after report and study after study confirm that for young people under the age of 18, price clearly is a determining factor in terms of smoking. i was pleased to hear both mrs stihler and mr blokland support the view of the commission that there is a direct link between price and quantity consumed and that therefore the price very definitely has a bearing on health. mr folias said that if the price goes up then cheaper cigarettes will be purchased and smoked. according to that reasoning, if the price went down then more expensive cigarettes would also be purchased. that is something that, in reality, is not noticeable. therefore, with all due respect to mr folias, his reasoning is not in line with reality. while i am answering specific questions by parliament, i have to say that i do not understand the argument by mr wieland – referring to the legal aspects of the case – when he says that the interplay of vat and excise taxes would be illegal. of course they have a bearing on competition and smuggling, as we all know, but why should this be illegal, as he maintains? the point of view of his committee is based on the legal state of affairs. he says that there is a problem in that cigarillos of a certain dimension and character should be treated as cigars and not as cigarettes. well, i have some here. if you showed an average citizen of the european union this packet of cigarillos, took one of them out – of the same dimensions and weight as an ordinary cigarette – and asked them if it was more like a cigarette or more like a cigar, i would wager mr wieland 144 packets of cigarettes or cigarillos – whichever he prefers – that the average citizen of the european union would classify them as cigarettes. most of the amendments proposed in mr maaten's opinion have been retabled for this plenary. the commission broadly shares these concerns on the need to pay more attention to health policy. but the amendments require no change to the proposal. according to the existing review requirements, the commission already has the obligation to take into account the wider treaty objectives, including health. new developments, resulting for instance from the conclusion of a who framework convention on tobacco control, will thus automatically have to be taken into consideration in a subsequent review. the commission and the member states have also taken a number of initiatives to combat fraud and smuggling following the conclusions of the high-level group on fraud in the field of excise duties. to conclude, for the reasons i have given, the commission is still convinced of the merits of its proposal and still considers the proposals by the commission to be a direct reply to parliament's own opinion expressed in 1996. therefore the commission invites all members of parliament who have expressed an opinion contrary to that of the commission to reconsider their position on this issue very carefully before tomorrow's vote.
- mr president, i have to go. commissioner, you have just given us an example. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he thinks that the assessment of tobacco products, like that of commissioners, is not based on the packaging but on the content.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the lisbon european council in march 2000 formulated a new strategy for the coming decade. at that time, we were very optimistic about economic data and really believed that we could achieve sustainable growth of at least 3%, economic reform, full employment and also social inclusion. today we are faced with a difficult starting point because world economic development has taken a different direction and the european union too, despite its willingness to reform and the reforms it has shown, is experiencing an economic downturn. the question is therefore, even more so than during the preparations for the first spring summit in stockholm, how does the commission intend to continue this ambitious process of making the european union, on the basis of innovation and knowledge, the most dynamic and competitive economic area in the world, capable of dealing with the problems i have described? this question is all the more relevant for the barcelona spring summit, because after two years of evaluating such a strategy, it must be clear in which areas the member states and european policy have actually been guided by the quantitative and qualitative objectives and to what extent it has been possible to bundle and make visible actions. in fact, the budgetary forecasts of the member states have all shown an equal increase in investment in research and development, innovation and the further development of the information and communication society. the few figures which we have as the european parliament unfortunately do not yet speak the concrete language we would like to have, because we have also promised ourselves, from the lisbon strategy and its consistent implementation, a visible added value of european coordinated policy in the context of economic, financial, employment and social policy, in order to make clear to the citizens the value that european policy can have for them and, in particular, for the improvement of the living and working conditions of the population in the union. the question is certainly how the ambitious goal of more investment in the european union has been met. how have crossborder infrastructure investments been effectively made visible, apart from through expertise? we have to ask all these questions as the european parliament, because the commission has an obligation to provide, with its synthesis report, the basis for the further discussions at the spring summit, which will then ultimately result in the broad outlines of the economic policy of the european union and its member states for the future. in this situation of economic downturn and also of the particular challenges of the negative economic consequences of the terrible terrorist acts of september 11th - these are questions that have a new quality, the collapse of consumer confidence - we also have to ask ourselves: what are we doing to stop a self-fulfilling prophecy that we are sliding into a recession? the commission therefore has a great responsibility to be more targeted, more concrete in the area of economic reforms, which relate not only to the labour market but also to the other markets, to full employment and also to social inclusion, by giving concrete guidelines here. the question that naturally arises here - and i would like to put it to you, commissioner - is whether the tax environment, which unfortunately is still characterized by national proximity and not by coordination, does not have a negative impact on investment activity in the european union, particularly on crossborder investment activity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are not yet partners in the macroeconomic dialogue. it is not intended to set up a forum with all the parties concerned, as was the case before the lisbon process. the question is really to what extent the european parliament is adequately involved in this and can therefore also take the interests of citizens into account in the definition of the priorities for the economic and structural policies of the european union. we are really in a situation where we have to mobilize forces and organize optimism. how do you propose to do that with this synthesis report? what working methods do you intend to adopt and what guidelines do you intend to set out?
- mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. it's late, but we're awake, very awake. the alarm bells are ringing, the gordian knot has not yet been broken, but i hope parliament will not let up. what's the matter? it is about jobs and the image of the eu in the eyes of european citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a question of dealing openly and honestly with the consequences of the failure of the negotiations with morocco on the iberian peninsula. the facts are laid out in a very simple way: since november 1999, we have heard that the eu fleet - in practice, deep sea fishermen from spain and portugal - is no longer allowed to use the resources off the coast of morocco. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen concerned are compensated for the damage they have suffered. behind these figures are people, families, entire communities, embedded in a traditional industry that now needs to be given a perspective for the future. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. we must, on the contrary, - and i am including the commission and the council in this - succeed in developing a comprehensive approach which is convincing and whose objective can be a reduced but economic fishing activity or an alternative. i take this report as another direct indication of the extreme importance and urgency of the reform of the european union's common fisheries policy, which is of concern to us all at the moment. it is no coincidence that the keywords - external relations, trade agreements, capacity reduction and major restructuring - are also a common thread running through the working documents on reform. the current situation in spain and portugal shows us that it is high time to put together a package that really deserves the name of reform. it cannot be a question of degrading members of a proud trade to mere alms-takers. we cannot allow this as a community of values. i think in the face of declining incomes, we've seen the enormous challenges. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
- mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner! i would like to refer to only two aspects, namely the socially acceptable and economically sound restructuring of air transport. madam president, you were too kind in your words earlier when you said that the council had reacted in a united way. i doubt that, madam president-in-office, and i would urge you to ensure that the same subsidies are granted or not granted in all the member states, whether in insurance cover, compensation or possible restructuring aid. it is not acceptable that one airline should receive special state support in one member state and not in another, but both should be in a fair competition in a single market. this can't work! we want a level playing field for airlines. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, madam president-in-office, you have rightly pointed out that we need restructuring. there will probably be some larger global players and some regional airlines. this cannot be tied to member state a or member state b. we need a functioning european and global air transport market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. only then can we give our airlines a fair chance in global competition. i would ask you to make a serious effort to involve your member states in these two matters over the next few weeks. (applause from the centre)
commission. – madam president, i understand that the report by mr katiforis has been accepted. that means that the commission proposal is rejected. i would like to say first of all that the commission very much regrets this vote, in particular because the commission's proposal is precisely what parliament asked for in 1996. this is an unusual situation. parliament asks something of the commission. the commission does what is asked of it and parliament rejects what the commission has done. (applause)however i shall apprise the commission of this regrettable result next week when the commission next meets, and i shall confer with my colleagues and with president prodi on the course of action to be taken now in connection with the rules of the treaty which are perfectly clear. (applause)
- madam president! - what is it? i would like to make a brief comment on this point. firstly, the commission's proposal was wrong, but more importantly, mr commissioner, elections have taken place and the commission should take note of this. (applause from the centre)
i would like to say that the agenda is as follows: vote from 12 to 1 p.m., resumption at 6.30 p.m. i think we should stick to the agenda. (applause from the centre)
in writing. -(de) my group welcomes with enthusiasm the commission's proposal to set up a temporary defence mechanism for european shipbuilding in the face of the failure of negotiations to put an immediate end to unfair international competition in this field. we also give our full and explicit support to all the amendments proposed by parliament in the report, in particular those aimed at extending the deadline until the end of 2003. my group, together with colleagues from other groups, has for a long time been drawing attention to the problems of european shipbuilding in general and the situation resulting from international competition in particular. in september, the gue/ngl group visited the area to familiarize itself with the situation of the east german shipyards and asked the commission to take action in this area. we welcome the commission's proposal which is finally before us and which provides for aid to shipyards which have suffered significant damage as a result of unfair korean trade practices by means of solutions which will be put into practice quickly. many of these yards are located in structurally weak regions with major economic and social problems and are the core of the existing economic structure. their maintenance and prosperity are essential to the consolidation of thousands of jobs and to the economic development of these regions. however, my group is convinced that further measures are needed to ensure the future of european shipbuilding, which is one of the most indispensable branches of european industry. these measures could be as follows: - investment support programmes that achieve long-term structural results and promote employment; - support for european cooperation in research and development applied to the maritime economy; - development of a concerted maritime policy at european level; - design and implementation of a european transport policy that promotes the transfer of freight and passenger transport from land to water. we ask the commission to take a position on the key issues for the future of european shipbuilding before the summer of 2002 and to propose an action programme to solve the problems that arise in the medium and long term.
in writing. - doc. b3-1411/91 by mr schörling and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in the former yugoslavia; my group, the european people's party, has failed to obtain a majority for its proposals for amendments, which are very constructive. what has just been adopted is laden with too much ideology. of course there is the environmental safety. but so are the innovative and competitive jobs in the chemical industry. in the last few weeks i have been informed on the spot of the consequences of the schörling report. i visited production units and spoke with management teams, employees and trade unions in these companies. the objectives of the commission's white paper to ensure the sustainability of the chemical industry are not in any way called into question. from an ecological point of view, we need maximum protection of consumers and the environment. from an economic point of view, we need unified framework conditions to ensure fair competition for smes, users and processing plants. in the social field, this is the case with a high level of health and labour protection. however, we have been able to prevent the registration requirement from being extended to substances with an annual production of less than one tonne. the current classification of substances from 10 tonnes and upwards and the resulting obligation to identify them before they are put on the market are already very difficult for the public authorities to control. the european people's party was successful in that the double checks on many chemicals did not win a majority. these are not a safety gain, but are rather time-consuming, costly and completely unnecessary since the competent authorities are already looking at the data. i consider it unacceptable to substitute dangerous materials and methods which in other cases should be prohibited. the hazardousness of a product does not depend on the properties of its material, but only on the use made of it! the same is true of a knife: it is extremely useful in the home and in everyday life, but it becomes dangerous when used as a weapon that can be used to commit bodily crimes, even hijacking aircraft. it is also regrettable that it was decided to disclose confidential information. if we force companies to declare the volume of their production, the processes used or the particular associations made, which justify an advantage on the market, then we can abolish competition right away. it undermines the very substance of our businesses ! every competitor can copy refined systems without problems. it is necessary to define clearly which data are subject to proprietary rights and which are not. i hope that before the second reading in parliament the three committees concerned will work together to come up with a more balanced proposal.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the events in and around afghanistan are shifting the focus to hotbeds of crisis in other parts of the world, such as nigeria. the european union must not be indifferent to what is happening in this most populous country in africa. at the beginning of this year, nigerian president obasanjo declared that 2001 would be the year in which the nigerian people would reap the fruits of democracy. we did so when we met in abuja for the acp-eu joint assembly. the advance of confidence has, however, been transformed into deep concern. a split within nigeria's ruling party, the lack of economic improvement and the continued poor living conditions of the population have created a growing propensity for violence and are providing a breeding ground for political extremism. to keep them in check, president obasanjo has been forced to deploy troops in seven nigerian states. more than 3,000 people are reported to have died, and fears of a military takeover are returning. religious and ethnic tensions are increasing as more and more states adopt and apply sharia law. violent people often go unpunished. the president and all the democratic forces of nigeria are called upon to use the rule of law to deal firmly with the perpetrators of violence, to enforce universal human rights and to promote economic reforms for the benefit of all parts of the country if this misery is to be brought to an end. the commission must be expected to accompany this process with a vigour and to do everything in its power to ensure that this heart of crisis in africa is transformed back into a place of democracy.
mr president, some may ask why we are dealing with a flood disaster of such magnitude in algeria. in fact, there's a heated debate going on right now about affectivity. at a major event in nuremberg recently, one of germany's leading orientalists complained that there was too little concern in parts of the islamic world about the atrocities in new york. i told him at the time that we too had shown little concern about chechnya, where over 100 000 people were murdered, or iraq, where over 100 000 people, mainly children, are starving. in fact, there is such a thing as a partial culture of concern, which differs by culture, by region of the world. we must therefore ensure that our muslim and arab partners are also sympathetic to such disasters, so that terrorists - and that was the aim of 9/11 - do not play one civilization against another and actually cause a clash of civilizations. the dead in algeria are our dead too. the homeless in algeria are our homeless too. in the economic sphere, when we talk about a global village, we also have to talk about a global village of compassion and solidarity. the european union must therefore, on our doorstep, with our partners in the mediterranean, in the arab world, with whom we must work more closely than ever, provide massive humanitarian aid, but also ensure that algeria is put on a path where it is more capable than ever of helping itself.
the commission. i would like to thank mrs lynne, mr president, first of all, not only for this report, but also for her continued commitment and struggle in disability policies. i would like to thank parliament in particular for the support and warmth with which it accepted the 2003 proposal. the year 2003 should be a year that sends a clear message that disability policies are not just about solidarity. it's not just politics of humanity and charity. it is a policy based on fundamental human rights, on the rights of the citizen. the second important thing is that in 2003 there should be a mobilisation not just of governments. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the citizens of the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the creation of a european network of information centres, the development of a european network of information centres, the development of a european network of information centres, the development of a european network of information centres, the development of a european network of information centres, the development of a european network of information centres, the development of a european network of information centres, the development of a european network of information centres, the development of a european network of information centres, the development of a european network of information centres. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is a step in the right direction. the business world can play a major role. support for research, new product technology can bring outstanding new products for people with disabilities, while new technology products can be adapted to the specific needs of different forms of disability. as mrs lynne has mentioned in the commission's publications, i would like to inform you that i launched my new web page, which is readable by the blind, just yesterday. 2003 should be accepted as a year in which we should both promote the european priorities as set out in the commission's communication on a 'europe without barriers' and at the same time allow individual member states to promote their national objectives, which are different in each country, as there is a different level of development of policies for people with disabilities. i should like to say that i accept most of your amendments, in spirit or in writing. i would like to emphasize the following points in particular: firstly, i fully agree with the need to increase awareness of the diversity of special needs and the fact that there are people with very severe disabilities who are subject to multiple discrimination and, of course, there are also cases of people in institutions. the second important element is the specific policies for education and employment. the first is that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the third important point is the need for cooperation between all the parties involved. we cannot propose and implement policies for disabled people. we need to work with their organizations to present policies that they can participate in. we believe that 2003 will be the beginning of a new form of partnership, a new form of innovative policies at european level for disabled people. the budget, which is 12 million euros, is small but it should be stressed that it is not about implementing policies but about supporting events of local or national importance that will act more as elements of mobilization of societies and organizations. i should also say that we think it is reasonable to leave the 50% funding rate for activities at national level because it will allow for more events, but at the same time allow governments to act in a complementary way across a range of policies. i would like to congratulate mrs lynne once again on her personal attitude and tell you that the final decision by the council will be taken on 3 december 2001, which also coincides with the day of disabled persons.
- mr president, i have to go. i have only one question: we decided on tuesday morning on the urgency of financial aid to a number of balkan countries, and i regret that it is apparently only being discussed in the mini-plenum, because we would have had sufficient time this afternoon - we had two breaks in the sitting - to deal with this subject. in the past we always dealt with on friday what we had put on the agenda on tuesday morning. i hope that will be possible again soon when we have friday again, but i wanted to take this opportunity to ask when these issues will be discussed at the brussels meeting, because you have not announced that at the moment.
- mr president, i would like to thank mrs lynne for her excellent report, mr karas for mentioning my exhibition and mrs petter for having set this exhibition in motion. this is a great initiative for disabled and traumatized children, who are being cared for by the munich children's center. this action is now being continued in italy and france by a number of colleagues. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i thank you very much for that! this is a good start for our preparatory work for the year of the disabled. so thank you to all the colleagues who have joined this great initiative from bavaria! (applause from the centre)
counsel. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the european council meeting in brussels-laeken on 14 and 15 december will deal with the following subjects: the future of the european union, the european security and defence policy, enlargement, the fight against terrorism, the area of freedom, security and justice, the general situation and prospects of the union, employment and social cohesion, the various institutions and agencies, and external relations. the future of the european union: the european council will adopt the text of a declaration to launch the debate on the future of europe. the text consists of a first part on the strengths and weaknesses of european integration, a second part which sets out the thematic issues that the convention could address, and a third part which lays down the arrangements for organising the debate. the general affairs council of 19 november confirmed the convergence of the member states as regards the procedure. the principle of convening a preparatory convention is an important step towards a union that is more comprehensible, stronger and more concerned with pursuing its essential objectives. the participation of representatives of governments, the commission, national parliaments and the european parliament in the convention is of course a given. the presidency's proposal for the candidate countries is based on the following principles: they shall be fully associated with the work of the convention and have the right to speak; they will be represented in the same way as the member states, i.e. one representative of the government and two representatives of their parliament; those candidate countries which have not yet signed their accession treaty will not participate in the convention's consensus when the convention prepares its final report. the president of the convention will be appointed by the laeken european council. the president shall be assisted by a bureau composed of representatives of the various components of the convention. the participation of the presidency-in-office is confirmed, the participation of the representatives of the two subsequent presidencies remains to be decided. finally, the secretariat of the convention will be provided by the general secretariat of the council. it will be able to rely on the help of the commission, the european parliament's secretariats and the national parliaments. there was unanimity in favour of consulting civil society through representative organisations at european and national level. the idea of a forum in the form of a separate assembly was dropped. these organisations may be heard or consulted in accordance with methods to be defined. the contributions of these organisations will form part of the official documentation sent to the members of the convention. the work of the convention will begin as soon as possible under the spanish presidency and will be completed by the european council in june 2003. as for the time that will elapse between the end of the convention's work and the start of the intergovernmental conference, this is still being considered. as regards the themes, the presidency's approach has been to build on the content of the nice declaration to develop a sufficiently broad and coherent mandate, which will serve as a basis for the presidency's work. the presidency agrees with the recommendations made by the rapporteurs, mr leinen and mr méndez de vigo. these themes are grouped into five open and neutral groups of questions: the objectives and content of the union's policies, the distribution of competences between the union and its member states, the democratic legitimacy of the system, and the union's capacity to decide and conduct policies. the prime minister will present a draft of the laeken declaration during his visit to the capitals. in this draft, the topics that the convention could address will be presented in the form of questions and choices, so as to enable delegations to make informed decisions. in conclusion on this important chapter, i would like to make the following remarks. whatever the content of the laeken declaration, the convention will retain control of its agenda. it would be futile, i think, to try to confine it to a pre-defined mandate. (applause) i would like to thank the presidency has been busy clarifying and declining the nice themes, where the declaration was deliberately drafted in a relatively open way. nothing proposed by the presidency should be interpreted as a mandate for the future intergovernmental conference. the terms of reference of this conference will be decided in accordance with the procedures laid down in the treaties. finally, the objective of the laeken declaration is to ensure that the convention's methodology bears fruit and that its results are taken up by the 2004 intergovernmental conference. the debate on the future of europe must also aim to make the european union closer, more transparent and more effective. in this respect, the council took note with interest of the report by mrs kaufmann on the white paper on european governance. this report contains valuable information. i share the concern to ensure that the increased involvement of civil society actors in the functioning of the union does not come at the expense of the central role that representative and politically responsible authorities must play. i now turn to the european security and defence policy. the european council will receive a report from the presidency on progress made. work has indeed progressed well in terms of improving military capabilities and strengthening civilian capabilities, as demonstrated by the capability conferences held on 19 and 20 november. as regards the declaration on the operational character of the esdp, the union is faced with the following dilemma: either it is unable to do so because of a veto imposed by a nato member who is not a member of the union, or it declares itself operational without - in the absence of access to nato resources - this declaration being based on real capabilities. in both cases, i would point out that the credibility of the union is, of course, at stake. the third approach advocated by the presidency would be to declare that the union will decide on a case-by-case basis on the response to a crisis, depending on the military and civilian means and capabilities at its disposal. that is the european security and defence policy.
president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the laeken summit must be an important stage in the process of european integration. you will be voting today on two reports which concern the very articulation of the european project and the direction it will take in the years ahead: the report by mr leinen and mr méndez de vigo on the future of the union and the report by mr kaufmann on european governance. to address these issues, we must first answer some fundamental policy questions: what are the new challenges facing the union, both internally and externally? how can the union's institutional architecture be simplified? how can the different responsibilities be shared and the national parliaments involved? the organisational form, in fact, cannot be an end in itself, but must be functional to the objectives we intend to achieve; it must reflect the project of society that the vast majority of european citizens want. the communication on the future of the union which we will be presenting before the laeken council will be based on these very considerations, which i believe are also to be found in both reports under discussion today. first, let us look at the report on the future of the union. if the union were to limit itself to the policies it managed in the 1960s or 1970s, the current institutional framework would probably be adequate. but the political point is something else: citizens are asking the union to do much more; the european union is a global community of nations, and its members are called upon to solve complex problems, which only the present size of the union can successfully tackle. the current institutional structures, however, are not able to respond effectively to these new challenges. reform of the institutional system is therefore needed to make the union more effective in taking the decisions that citizens expect. we cannot continue to raise new expectations without providing ourselves with the means to meet them. we must therefore introduce institutional reforms that go beyond what was envisaged in nice. we must also preserve the essence of the community method, based on the institutional triangle, the real mechanism that has enabled the european community's success story for fifty years: i would like to see a balanced approach based on a strong parliament, a strong council, a strong commission and, even if it goes beyond the triangle, i would say a strong court of justice. it is the only way we can combine efficiency and democracy. it must, however, be renewed and adapted to the new european reality and the union's new priorities. the european parliament has been very active in this area since the beginning of the year. the democratic dimension of the method of reforming the treaties must be strengthened. in particular, there is a strong demand that the involvement of democratically elected representatives should not be limited to the ratification of the basic texts of our union. in the present legal situation, with the limitations we have, the best solution is to have the intergovernmental conference - which i hope once again will be short and decisive - preceded by thorough preparation by the institutions and the national and european parliaments. in two weeks' time, the european council in laeken will take a historic decision, convening the convention to prepare the intergovernmental conference. a convention modelled on the charter of fundamental rights is a good answer to the need to strengthen the role of peoples in building a union which, from its very origins, is a union of states and a union of peoples. this formula, which was proposed by the commission and the european parliament at the beginning of the year, has gradually won over supporters and has been adopted by those member states which, just a few months ago - let us recall what happened in gothenburg - were very reluctant or opposed to accepting it. the convening of a convention, its composition and organisation, and the broadening of the union's constitutional reform agenda, are the key issues at the heart of the laeken declaration. these aspects are analysed in the draft resolution which is before you today. i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteurs, mr leinen and mr méndez de vigo, on their excellent report on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs. the european commission broadly agrees with much of the report. parliament and the commission agree that we must start with the four points of nice, but as the report shows, they cover more aspects than a first reading might suggest. it is, however, unthinkable to impose taboos and limits on the discussions of a convention in which the majority of members are parliamentarians. all issues that offer adequate support will therefore have to be addressed. it is rather on certain aspects of the composition of the convention that the commission invites the european parliament to give further thought. as you know, there is strong support for the idea that the president of the convention should be appointed by the european council in laeken. i too, on behalf of the commission, support this position, because it is not enough that the convention exists, nor that it functions properly: the convention will have to convince the member states. and a president appointed by the european council, who enjoys the confidence of the heads of state and government, will be able to create much more easily the necessary climate of confidence between the convention and the european council. we fully support the proposal to ensure that the president of the convention also takes part in the work of the intergovernmental conference. there is a difference, however, because the commission is more in favour of a smaller bureau than the draft resolution on which you are voting today, with one representative for each member. the bureau shall organise the work of the convention. it is not possible for all opinions, trends and interests to be represented. the draft resolution calls for the convention to adopt unanimously a single and coherent proposal which can be the sole basis for negotiation and decision by the intergovernmental conference. i hope so and i would be very happy if that were to happen, but we must also be realistic. it is objectively possible that we cannot reach a broad consensus unless we lower our ambitions very much, or too much. i therefore prefer to go into the igc today with stronger and weaker options, to preserve the possibility of reaching strong responses, rather than letting the level of ambition within the convention drop, even before the work of the conference has begun. finally, i see that we agree to ask that the intergovernmental conference finish its work before the start of the electoral campaign for the next european elections. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are living through a fundamental change in the life of the union: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why, at the beginning of my mandate, i had indicated that governance reform, i.e. improving the way we work on permanent treaties, was one of the commission's strategic objectives. i would therefore like to speak briefly about the kaufmann report on governance reform. first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs sylvia kaufmann, the chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs, mr napolitano, and the whole of the european parliament on the speed and efficiency with which the work was carried out, in which no less than ten parliamentary committees took part. we have significant points of convergence here too. both our institutions believe that there is a need to critically review and, if necessary, reform governance at european level. the european parliament is in favour of the creation of an interinstitutional working party, as proposed in my speech of 2 october. the commission is ready for this dialogue, which we hope the council will also participate in, at least as regards the matters within the competence of all three institutions. i have repeated this point today, a few hours ago, at the trilogue meeting, and i hope that progress can be made on this. the european parliament also agrees with the commission that budgetary procedures should be simplified and the council's activities made more transparent. finally, and most importantly, the commission and parliament agree that the central political reference point for governance issues must remain the aspect of democratic legitimacy, to which the aspect of efficiency - albeit of paramount importance - must remain subordinate. the kaufmann report also raises a number of parliament's concerns. i would like to stress, first of all, that the commission's proposals in the white paper are aimed at strengthening the democratic process and thus at strengthening the role of the european parliament. i am not going to change my view: the european parliament is the central element of democratic legitimacy, without which there can be no real support from european citizens. but let us also examine the concerns. firstly, there is the fear that civil society will override the european parliament. i can assure you that this is not the intention of the commission, because it was the commission which proposed that each institution should return to its original tasks and redefine its respective powers. secondly, the european parliament - and this is the commission's view - is the highest democratic expression of european civil society and the natural representative of its institutions. at the same time, the commission must make informed decisions in the process of drawing up legislative proposals. it cannot therefore dispense with appropriate consultations - i repeat, consultations - with economic and social operators, with the scientific and technical world and with cultural figures. it is therefore necessary to rationalize and structure a dialogue which has long been a constant feature of our way of working. i have read the kaufmann report very carefully on this point and i can assure you that we will take the most careful account of the indications - including those of method - which it contains. the commission has no intention of calling into question the prerogatives of the european parliament as a co-legislator, nor has it ever done so. our proposals on co-regulation and self-regulation are aimed solely at preventing practices which have been in existence for many years from proceeding in anarchy and falling into the abuses which you have yourself pointed out. the commission's proposals are aimed at this. in addition, our proposals would stipulate that the use of co-regulation would be decided on a case-by-case basis, after the european parliament has given its opinion. i have already said that the criteria and limits for the use of these new legislative instruments should be the subject of debate - and possibly agreement - between the institutions, preferably within the framework of the interinstitutional working party i proposed on 2 october. that's why this group is so important. the same approach should apply to the use of framework directives, i.e. legislative acts of principle and guidance which confer on the commission and the administrations responsible for implementation in the member states a wider competence to adopt implementing rules. i have already expressed the commission's conviction that parliament, together with the council, must have a simple legal instrument which enables the legislator to monitor and control the actions of the executive. there are various national experiences from which we could draw inspiration to improve the implementation of community policies and to enable the legislative authority to give effective guidance and control to the executive authority. this too requires thorough negotiation between the three institutions. i have already had occasion to say that the mechanism of the legislator's call-back of the commission's implementing measures is perhaps not the best possible device, or at least it needs to be considerably deepened. however, it is precisely in view of this objective that the commission is actively considering other options and hopes to present concrete proposals, preferably during the interinstitutional debate which i have called for. i also confirm that it would be inappropriate to decide on a concrete action plan on how to legislate within the community - what is commonly called better regulation - before all the institutions have discussed it. for this reason, in accordance with the undertaking given to you, the commission intends to approve in the coming days only a consultation document which will allow the interinstitutional dialogue to focus on certain priority measures, also suggested by the intergovernmental group chaired by mr mandelkern. we will also work to ensure that the laeken european council follows this approach and invites the institutions to reach the coordinated strategy desired in lisbon by june 2002. finally, i would like to clarify a few points concerning the action of the regulatory agencies. i agree with you that we must avoid fragmenting the executive and weakening democratic controls. moreover, the commission cannot continue to assume full political responsibility for the activities of agencies over which it has only partial influence. we therefore propose that a general model of agency be defined to ensure balanced representation in parliament, the council and the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago we presented and discussed with you our report on the progress made on enlargement, progress which allows us to pursue the objective - which seems to me realistic today - of admitting up to ten new member states before the 2004 elections. today i would just like to stress the importance of continuing to progressively associate the candidate countries with the activities of the union. for this reason, the participation of the representatives of the candidate states in the work of the convention is of great importance. for the same reasons, we are increasingly associating the candidate countries with the activities and programmes of the union. in addition to enlargement and the reform of the treaties, there are other items on the agenda of the laeken european council on which i should like to dwell very briefly. the union has played an active role in the diplomatic efforts related to the current international crisis. in addition, my visits with the president-in-office of the council to washington, the middle east and, most recently, india and pakistan have strengthened my conviction of the need and the need for the union to play a global role. we have also put forward various proposals in the various fields necessary for the fight against terrorism. we must now continue along this path, showing strong political will and determination. in particular, we must maintain and strengthen our commitment to the full and effective implementation of the tampere mandate, on which we will present an assessment to the european council. the process started has been generally positive and should be developed with the highest degree of visibility and transparency so that citizens can see in it an answer to their daily security concerns. the member states are beginning to recognise the need to draw inspiration from principles and instruments typical of the community system, such as the principle of mutual recognition. however, there is still a reluctance in member states to make progress in sensitive areas such as immigration or visas, which should be overcome with stronger political will. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the challenges we face and recent international events confirm the relevance and validity of the european project, which must be strengthened and adapted to meet the new needs of citizens. the community method, which combines democratic legitimacy and efficiency, remains the key to building the new europe. it is therefore its renewal and strengthening that the future reforms of the treaties must aim at. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the laeken summit can be a historic summit. our group has every confidence in the belgian presidency because belgium has always remained faithful to the ideals of european unity and, above all, because belgium has always represented the common europe. we in the epp/ed group do not want the governments of a few large countries in the european union, but we want the joint action of europeans, the common europe, and for that we wish you, mr president-in-office, every success! (applause from the centre) you have spoken of enlargement, as has the president of the commission, and i am still very much under the impression of a conference with the group leaders of our party family from the candidate countries, that is, from the countries which want to join the european union. we are not going to allow the european parliament to be the arbiter of the decisions of the council of ministers, but we are going to make it clear that we are not going to allow the council of ministers to be the arbiter of the decisions of the council of ministers. each country must be judged individually, and on that basis we must come to the enlargement of the european union. i am sure that in laeken they will also be dealing with afghanistan - that is necessary - and we reiterate here that it is necessary to destroy the terrorist networks of al qaeda. but we also need to lay the foundations now for the international community, including the european union, including the united states, including the arab and islamic world, to help afghanistan rebuild so that there can be a human society there and we get a government in kabul that respects human rights, including women's rights. this is our task in these days and weeks. i would like to make a comment on the middle east. we call on all parties to return to the negotiating table. we very much regret - and i will be very moderate in my words - the behaviour of the israeli prime minister towards the visitors from the european union. the council president, mr verhofstadt, the commission president, mr prodi, the foreign minister, mr michel, the president of the council, and the high commissioner, mr solana, were present. we have no understanding of the way in which the prime minister of israel - and i am reminded of the great prime ministers of israel - ben gurion, golda meir, yitzhak rabin - treated our delegation in israel! (applause from the centre) we encourage the commission and the council to stick to their path. we will always defend israel's security, as we have always done in the past, but the people of palestine also have a right to human dignity and to live in security, as the israelis rightly claim for themselves. (applause from the centre) let me make one more comment about the convent. we have high hopes for what you will decide in laeken. the composition of the convention is known in terms of numbers. i ask you, mr president-in-office, to use all your influence to ensure that the 15 representatives of the governments are also persons who participate in the convention and who, when a proposal for a decision is made, feel bound by it, so that the governments are also held accountable for what is being done in the convention. the convention is not a seminar, but it must be held if we are not to be able to say yes or no at the end, and i understand very well that governments do not want that, so the convention must produce a result that is so convincing that it is binding on governments. our group will certainly send the most experienced and best people to this convention so that we can really reach a conclusion. we also ask you to use your influence, as president prodi has asked, to enable us to start the convention as early as possible in 2002, i.e. under the spanish presidency in february or early march, and then to conclude it at the end of 2003 under the italian presidency, by which time we will have a new treaty ready for signature, which we can then discuss in detail here in parliament. i say this, mr president of the council, because it is my firm conviction that laeken is such an important summit, because what is at stake in laeken is the direction of this european union, whether we will go further, as we saw at a mini-summit in london, with seven countries taking part, eight countries not taking part and the european commission not being present at all. we hope that you, the presidency of the council and the commission will also express this community in laeken, and if that happens, you will have our full support! (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! i should like to speak about the laeken declaration and the convention in particular. this parliament has been particularly active since the ill-fated nice summit in calling for a new approach to the intergovernmental conferences. it has worked across party lines with colleagues in national parliaments and with various representatives of civil society to put the politics of secret diplomacy behind closed doors, the politics of opaque decision-making and the politics of playing the long-night marathon into the past once and for all. the european union's future depends on this new method, and i believe that the convening of a convention is absolutely necessary, because the first thing that is at stake is the strengthening of democracy in europe. it is above all about the citizens, about a comprehensive, broad debate on the design of the common european home, which will hopefully include ten more european countries in 2004. the council president, mr president-in-office, has today presented the main points of the laeken declaration, which is to become an ambitious declaration. let me address a few questions again. the composition of the convention is extremely important from the point of view of my group, and we think that two things in particular should be taken into account here. the first is the principle of political pluralism. it is essential to ensure that the most diverse political forces are represented at the convention, that not only are representatives of the major political parties included in the delegations of the national parliaments or the european parliament, but that we also have representatives of smaller political parties from the most diverse member states of the european union, and above all that we have a productive political debate on the pros and cons, because that is the only way to make discussions interesting. we also need a fair representation of both sexes. i have seen that there are amendments to the report by mr mendez de vigo and mr leinen on this subject, and i hope that many of our colleagues will support these amendments and that the national parliaments and the council will then consider how to meet this criterion. i believe that a targeted structured dialogue with civil society is urgently needed. mr president-in-office, you have spoken about this. i think that we should also consider whether the economic and social committee, as the important voice of civil society, should not play a mediating role in this. i am very pleased to hear that the convention will be setting its own agenda, because it is not just about institutional questions, but a wide range of political issues, the question of how to shape the various european policies in the future. when you read in a report from the commission that 60 million people in the european union are currently living in poverty, i think that this shocking figure alone shows how much political action is needed and that this convention must be about a change of direction and also about a change of policy in europe.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! my colleague méndez de vigo and i drew up a report which was adopted by a very large majority in the constitutional committee. only the lords bonde, berthu and sacrédeus were against it. it was a large majority who shared these positions and i am pleased to hear today that the belgian presidency of the council agrees on many points and that the commission agrees on many of parliament's points. there is a large trend which believes that laeken is the important moment we must seize to make this european union more viable and more democratic, and laeken is perhaps the last chance to do so before enlargement, before this union expands from 15 to 25 or 30 countries. i'm very grateful to all those who helped make this new method a reality. if i go back to the beginning of the year, it seemed far away in january/february. i thank all those who have contributed to the creation of a new method, a convention, in which the representatives of the parliaments, on an equal footing with the representatives of the governments, can define this project for the future of our european union. the convention must not be an alibi event, however, and i think it would be a great disappointment if we were to just list the options available in europe. we know this option from the speeches of the heads of state. you're known, that's nothing new. this convention must be a political body, striving for solutions, really making the effort to find a consensus on how we want to go forward in europe. that's the real job! it sounds very attractive that we should make different proposals, federalist proposals, more intergovernmental proposals. but, mr president of the commission, will we get strong answers at the intergovernmental conference if we make a potpourri of proposals? i have serious doubts about that. the governments then have the same problem: they can choose whatever they want, and the principle of unanimity in the intergovernmental conference will lead to the same blockade situation as we had in amsterdam and nice. no, i think the convention is the great opportunity to determine the overwhelming majority by the method of consensus. this is not unanimity, but the overwhelming tendency, the overwhelming majority, that is emerging. if we put a coherent proposal like this before the igc, we also have the best chance of being accepted, because it is hard for a government to fail to reach consensus. there are still questions to be negotiated. this also needs to be put into a legal text. all this work must be done by the intergovernmental conference, but i would caution against simply instructing the convention to work out options for other dates. this is not a task for a convention, for a political body. we note that the council in laeken is making a proposal for the president, which is good and fine, but i also think that the convention should be able to confirm him, to elect him. a convention elects its own president. this operation should happen. you spoke of a small bureau, mr president of the commission. this bureau has a lot of work to do. this is the body which must lead this great convention, and it would be really useful if the opposition and the majority, both national parliaments and the european parliament, could feel represented in the bureau. on the timetable, i am glad that the governments themselves say it should take a year, more or less. this means that the convention will end its work in june 2003. then there should be a break, but only the summer break. i am in favour of everyone getting some rest from work in july and august, but then the intergovernmental conference can begin in september under the italian presidency, and we can succeed in bringing this constitutional treaty to fruition by the end of 2003, in time for the european elections, and also in time for enlargement. this would be a document with which we could present the peoples of europe, and i think that if the document succeeds in being read in schools and understood by children, then we will also reduce the alienation of citizens from europe, and that is our task! (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. there are undoubtedly close and in some cases inseparable links between the debate on the future of the european union and the governance reform which is the subject of my report. if you look at the text of my report, you will see that it is not exactly a matter of criticism. it is very clear that a position is being taken on many of the issues that the commission has addressed in its white paper, and - to use a word that has recently been adopted in germany - that is a good thing! that is why, mr president of the commission, i am particularly concerned to thank you and your colleagues who have put the white paper in motion for this initiative, and in particular for the commission's willingness, as expressed in the white paper, to review and change all the rules, procedures and behaviour in which the union exercises its powers, that is to say, all that has been understood by the term 'governance', both unreservedly and with self-criticism. this is something that deserves respect from all of us, because what is at stake is nothing more and nothing less than closing the existing gap between the union and its citizens. the commission has a close ally in this with parliament. we are only at the beginning of the debate on governance reform. many of the commission's proposals require detailed consideration. the white paper announces a number of initiatives. we shall be making a statement on this when it is actually on the table. i am confident that some of these proposals will be put into effect soon, not just at the end of next year. as a starting point, the list of committees and working groups involved in the consultation procedure announced by commissioner kinnock in the white paper on the reform of the commission should be mentioned. it should be noted that in my view, in future, a list of all the experts, associations and organisations involved in the preparation of a legislative proposal could be attached to each legislative proposal. yes, parliament supports the improvement of participation and consultation called for in the white paper. we believe, however, that this requires an interinstitutional agreement on democratic consultation, and i am pleased that you, mr prodi, have once again raised this issue today and given it your positive support. mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, my report is very specific and very detailed on the question of improving legislation, and this is not by chance, because it is a matter of the very basic role of parliament, its role as co-legislator. parliament has repeatedly stressed that it is committed to the community method and that it considers the maintenance of interinstitutional balance to be the most appropriate way of making progress in integration. i am not defending a concept, but its content, its political substance, and that is why i want to make it quite clear: it is not surprising that the council and the commission have been working for some time on the preparation of an action plan for better regulation, and that working groups have already prepared documents in secret with the intention of discussing this action programme in laeken, without involving parliament as a co-legislator in the work, or even informing it! we see in this, and the report says so very clearly in paragraph 30, a serious breach of the community method. the report also calls for the better regulation action programme not to be the subject of the laeken summit. it is not that this house is not prepared to take part in discussions on how legislation could be simplified or even improved. president prodi announced today that there will be a consultative document from the commission to start a dialogue with the house on this issue, and i can tell you that we as a parliament are ready to do so. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the question of co-regulation is particularly relevant. we are very critical of the use of so-called framework directives. there must be adequate mechanisms of democratic control, and here, mr president of the commission, there are obviously differences of opinion. we want a temporary recall mechanism. i was very surprised that the council representative did not make any comments on this particular question, because the question of better regulation concerns all three institutions, and i would be interested to know what the presidency of the council has to say on this question or on the proposed interinstitutional working party.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. with the lisbon european council and the social policy agenda adopted by the nice european council, we are entering a new phase of social and employment policy in the european union. the quality of jobs and social policy are at the centre of attention, as we have heard from the president of the council and the president of the commission. we as a parliament want to be fully involved in this development. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. i represent the chairman of the committee, michel rocard. we are convinced that secure jobs, a positive working environment and adequate workers' rights do not reduce productivity and economic growth and thus job creation, but on the contrary, promote them. work for all is the goal. we want a strategy for more and better jobs. quality of work includes job satisfaction, it increases the motivation of employees, it improves health and safety at work. we are waiting for a commission proposal on the statute for temporary workers. the quality of work also includes gender equality, reconciliation of family and work, measures to ensure that older people remain in the labour market. we need vocational training in its most modern form. continuing education, continuing training, lifelong learning are necessary. in order to create more and better jobs, the adaptability of enterprises to cope with structural change is particularly important, with minimum standards ensuring the involvement of workers, their timely information and consultation and thus the ability to adapt to change across europe. europe suffers from a low employment rate compared to our economic partners, for example the united states. the lisbon european council recognised this problem and proposed an ambitious target to gradually increase this employment rate. we must achieve this goal. the commission presented a communication in preparation for the laeken summit, setting out the main lines of a strategy and quality promotion for labour and social policy. this includes, not least, but first of all, the development of appropriate indicators and criteria. mr prodi informed us. as i said at the beginning, the european parliament expects to be fully involved in the discussions. we are increasingly seeing european social policy as a dialogue between council subcommittees - the employment committee, for example, or the social protection committee - and the commission. the european parliament is often left out. we'll guard against that. the european parliament must be able to contribute to the formulation of proposals on issues such as employment and social protection, which directly concern all citizens. this requires that we are kept informed by the relevant bodies and the commission of their work and that parliament is consulted in good time before each european council. we expect a clear commitment from the laeken summit. we are, after all, the people's representative body and therefore the first institution of the european union. president prodi has just very nicely described parliament as the most important expression of democratic europe. for these reasons, mr president-in-office of the council and mr president of the commission, we look forward with great interest to your replies to our oral questions.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! let me just make two comments which go together. i believe that the practical policy of the european union after 11 september, through the behaviour of a number of member states which were drawn to bilateralism or seemed to lose themselves in the directorate-level lobby, has made it clear that the european union is strong wherever it acts in accordance with the community method and weak wherever it does not. this is the lesson of the last two or three months, and it shows how necessary a general reform of the european union is, so that in the future we do not have to resort to this kind of approach which weakens us ourselves. it is therefore important that the right mechanism is agreed at laeken. the european council in laeken will not yet decide on the substance of the matter, but the methods by which the substance is to be worked out will be very crucial to its success. i think one thing must be clear: when a convention comes into being, which, thankfully, is also being helped by the council presidency, a number of governments and the commission, and in which national and european parliamentarians are involved, it must not be a convention whose procedures are designed in such a way that it does not have the necessary margin for correct decisions. it is not that he has no procedure to form the basis for the final negotiations between the heads of state or government. it is unacceptable, above all, that so much time should be allowed to pass between the convention and the summit, so that the old method of the diplomatic igc destroys everything that has been built up by parliamentarians on political momentum. i believe that this is the decisive test for the success or failure of laeken. i wish you success because i know that you see this in the council and in the commission as well, that these positions must be enforced so that we can work together towards a common result.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen! by unanimously adopting the kaufmann report, the constitutional committee has shown that we can react quickly to important reform projects of the commission in a very short time and that we can make a statement today or tomorrow in time for the european summit in laeken. let me take a few points from the kaufmann report and emphasize the following: mr president of the commission, we are pleased to note that you are sticking to the joint working group proposed in october. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the epp group insists that this work should be started soon. we are glad that the european commission has given up on developing its own administrative structures, as it were, down to the regions, cities and municipalities, as was the case in the preliminary drafts of its white paper. we also believe that the commission's method of open coordination, bypassing the european co-legislator, the european parliament, with guidelines which are only endorsed by the council of ministers and where the commission sets the guidelines with the golden reins of the programmes, is fundamentally unacceptable. here too, the involvement of the co-legislator is necessary. we call on you to reform the comitology procedure in a fundamental way. it is not appropriate to override the legislative power of the european parliament by means of implementing provisions whose content, purpose and scope are not determined in advance, together with the national bureaucracies. we also want european agencies to be kept to a minimum. can we remind you that the commission and the european parliament are natural allies in advancing european integration and in acting for the citizens of europe? the implementation of european legislation requires a culture of public administration at all levels, including the application of european rules by the authorities in the member states. adequate information and training of officials at these levels is urgently needed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. without parliament, there is no democracy! we are seeing it again today, the european parliament is the greatest factor of integration in the european union. the council, the commission and parliament are discussing this in public, not always unanimously, but openly and, i hope, constructively. the three rapporteurs have produced excellent reports. we have been promoting a community process as the european parliament since nice, and it must be ignited in laeken. i share the concern of commission president prodi that the european union is not yet sufficiently equipped for enlargement. i therefore ask the president-in-office to examine carefully whether what was decided in nice actually strengthens the capacity of the council and parliament to work. i doubt it! the european community and the european union have developed excellently for almost 50 years, and i hope that the next 50 years will be prepared in such a way that we can work in this european union in a stronger way for the next 50 years.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. an important key to the european area of freedom, security and justice is the enhanced judicial cooperation of the member states of the european union. the final establishment of eurojust will give us that key. we must also ensure that the european union is able to take action against the most serious forms of crime, such as terrorism, human trafficking and drug smuggling, in a flexible and effective manner across the community's internal borders. the european parliament gave its consent to the establishment of eurojust in spring 2001, with a target date of 1 january 2002. substantial changes by the council to the initiatives underlying eurojust make it necessary to consult the european parliament again, but the start date of eurojust at the beginning of next year does not seem to me to be in jeopardy. the council has shown, especially since 11 september, that it can react quickly when it needs to, and when the safety of the people of europe is at stake! the council has already incorporated into the document under discussion today substantial amendments proposed by the european parliament at the first consultation. eurojust's areas of competence have been formulated to cover cross-border cases and new forms of serious crime. eurojust may also support investigations and prosecutions beyond the framework described, if requested by a competent national authority. this will ensure maximum flexibility and efficiency in the joint fight against crime which knows no borders. the new council document also incorporates parliament's proposals for smooth cooperation between eurojust and national authorities. i would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude. nevertheless, we still need to make some changes now to make eurojust the best possible instrument against crossborder crime. if i understand the signals from the governments of the member states and from the council correctly, there will be a broad agreement between parliament and the council. the german and french governments, meeting in nantes last weekend, underlined the european parliament's view that eurojust should become the nucleus of a european public prosecutor's office. this strengthens the judicial side of the european union, gives effect to conventions already formulated but not yet ratified and continues the previous initiatives in this field. it is also important to me that eurojust is not hampered by unnecessary bureaucracy in its investigations and prosecutions. it is not useful for eurojust to set up national contact points. persons acting at eurojust and in the member states must communicate directly with each other without any detours. experience with organised crime shows that shortcuts and procedures alone promise quick and reliable results. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. eurojust shall ensure an appropriate level of protection for each citizen when processing data. this is only the case if the retention of personal data is limited to what is necessary and if data is not retained for longer than strictly necessary. it goes without saying that the handling of data from victims and witnesses must be subject to very specific requirements. it is also clear that the individual's right to information must be guaranteed and liable to be challenged. it is very gratifying to have received positive signals from the council also on data protection issues. i hope they go much further. the only wish i do not have is that eurojust will not be based in luxembourg, which would have been such a beautiful symbol of the independence of this institution and its proximity to common european law.
the rapporteur. the commission is not the protection of the community's financial interests is a difficult concept for the outside world to understand. the european parliament is closely associated with the european union as a taxpayer who gives his money to build and expand a united europe, but not to abuse, fraud and other crimes. he can rightly demand that the european institutions to which he entrusts his money handle it with care, and that fraud is detected and punished. the message we must send is that we must justify this public trust by all means. but these funds have so far remained a dead weapon, and the loss of the community budget through criminal machinations is increasing, as the figures show, doubling to over 2 billion euros last year. the figure in the dark is likely to be higher. despite improved detection, crossborder judicial cooperation lags far behind transnational organised crime. the council, the commission and parliament have been complaining about this situation for many years, but little or nothing has been done. the convention on the protection of the community's financial interests, signed in cannes some six years ago, and the protocols thereto have not yet been ratified by all the member states and are therefore not in force. in spite of all the appeals and resolutions of parliament and some of the summit declarations of the council, we still have no community european legal area to protect the community budget, not even a clear definition of the concept of fraud against community funds, let alone the conduct of investigations and the imposition of penalties which must be equally effective, proportionate and dissuasive. in this situation of deadlock, the commission has now submitted a proposal for a directive which takes up the elements of the 1995 convention and incorporates some of them into the protocols, and which is also a proposal which the european parliament had already made at the time before the 1995 summit. the commission rightly relies on article 280 (4) of the treaty of amsterdam, which obliges the community to contribute actively to the protection of its funds. the aim was to overcome the fruitless debate on whether the treaty should be included in the first or third pillar, especially since the treaty of nice reaffirms that the protection of community finances is included in the first pillar. we should not get bogged down in legal analysis, but give a clear signal. we are serious about criminal law protection against criminal misuse of european funds. we welcome the commission's proposal to approximate national legislation. it can only be a first step towards the creation of a european public prosecutor to protect the community's financial interests, which was already called for in the intergovernmental conference for the treaty of nice but unfortunately was not discussed. we are looking forward, mrs schreyer, to the commission's green paper on this subject. it would have been good to have had this green paper together with the proposal for a directive by now. in order to remedy this shortfall, the committee on budgetary control calls in its amendments for the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office based on the corpus juris model and based in the first pillar, at the next revision of the treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as an interim step without treaty amendment, the committee on budgetary control proposes the establishment of an internal fiscal prosecutor in accordance with the three-stage model in the second report of the independent experts. as i have said, we welcome the commission's proposal, but we are calling for a comprehensive instrument, that is, a regulation instead of a directive. why would you do that? directives impose objectives on the member states, while regulations also provide the instruments for achieving these objectives. the proposal for a directive aims to define uniformly in the criminal law of all member states certain offences such as fraud, corruption, money laundering, etc., which are harmful to the community budget. in order to avoid the confusion which has already arisen, the legal instrument of the regulation is clearly preferable. i urge parliament, the commission and the council to take this necessary political step together now. i ask for my report to be adopted without amendments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission's previous policy on the fight against fraud can unfortunately only be characterized by hesitation and delay on the really crucial issues. i have very little hope that this will change. this is particularly true of the european public prosecutor. a green paper is all that the commission has planned for the remaining years of its mandate. the commission's reform programme, which you have so praised, lacks the crucial safety net. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. so your first job would have been to clean up the old affairs and bring those responsible to justice. instead, you hide behind a hesitant judiciary in belgium and luxembourg. in order to avoid this sad truth coming to light, you are pursuing a policy of withholding information from parliament, which you are now also keen to enshrine in the financial regulation. they claim the right to decide for themselves whether or not the information of parliament on a matter is in the interest of the european union. i would have liked to have seen you in berlin when you were a member of parliament, mrs schreyer, but if the mayor in office had told you that it was not in the city's interest to inform you of certain events, you would have been disappointed. today you are doing exactly that to the european parliament and you do not even seem to realise that you are weakening not only this parliament but also yourself as the commission.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. sulfur-free fuel can fuel any car, new or old. it does not require any special conversion measures, no retrofitting or retrofitting parts. this is a big difference from the discussion about leaded and unleaded gasoline we had a few years ago. so, it can fuel any car with low sulphur fuel, and it has a positive effect, especially on older diesel engines. sulfur-free fuel reduces particulate matter, especially in these older vehicles. but above all, we need sulphur-free fuel because we want new technologies to come to market, not to reduce traditional emissions, but to consume less. we need direct injection diesel engines and direct injection petrol engines that have a large area of lean operation. in this lean operation, where little is consumed, the nitrogen oxide content is increased, and therefore we need certain techniques to capture the nitrogen oxides in the exhaust system. this is going to be - you can spin it any way you want - hampered by sulfur. to save fuel, to reduce co2 in the transport sector, we simply need sulphur-free fuel as soon as possible. i also cannot understand why a diesel vehicle with almost negative particulate matter values - the air is cleaner in the rear than it is in the front - is allowed to drive on the road, and in the same road there is a tractor and a bulldozer, and they emit particles en masse because of the bad fuel. i think these vehicles need to be fuelled with clean fuel, too, to reduce the particles.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think we have a very good report from the rapporteur and we can be glad that after so many years of negotiations egypt has finally agreed with us to sign this report. we had just voted to postpone this report, and i think that anyone who really wants to address the question of human rights in egypt must vote for this report. this report gives us, the european union, the opportunity to address this issue at all, because we have this human rights clause in article 2. the report is a good one, and i hope that it will be adopted by the council and the commission. i cannot understand why the colleagues who voted unanimously for this report in committee a week ago should have reservations today. in egypt nothing has changed, i do not know where anything has changed, that they now hold a different view from that which we have held in the committee. i would like to make one final point, namely the letter which the president of the egyptian parliament has written to us. i would like to say that it is unusual to try to influence a decision, a decision of parliament which is absolutely independent, in this way, and that is why i will table an oral amendment tomorrow on behalf of my group, which i have already discussed with the rapporteur.
- that wasn't on the agenda!
- this debate is over. i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 42 (5) of the rules of procedure. see minutes of the sitting. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the common position of the council on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 2666/2000 on aid to albania, bosnia and herzegovina, croatia, the federal republic of yugoslavia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and repealing regulation (ec) no 1628/96 and amending regulations (eec) no 39/89 and (eec) no 1360/90 and decisions 97/256/ec and 1999/311/ec and (ec) no 2667/2000 on the european council agency for reconstruction; - a5-0385/2001 by mr färm, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a council decision (com ((2001) 519 - c5-0486/2001 - com ((2001) 613 - 2001/0213 ((cns)) amending council decision 1999/733/ec granting additional macrofinancial assistance to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia; - a5-0411/2001 by mr färm, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a council decision (com (2001) 610 - c5-0558/2001 - 2001/0250 (cns)) amending council decision 1999/325/ec granting macrofinancial assistance to bosnia and herzegovina; - a5-0410/2001 by mr färm, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a council decision (com (2001) 618 - c5-0559/2001 - 2001/0258 (cns)) amending decision 2001/549/ec of 16 july 2001 granting macrofinancial assistance to the federal republic of yugoslavia.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr lagendijk has made a very good report, mr president. i would also like to thank mr färm very warmly and on behalf of my group, which i represent almost alone today, i would like to thank both of them and agree in principle with everything they have said. i'd like to add a few more accents. i think that this rapid reaction facility, this tool that allows you to quickly and unbureaucratically efficiently bring funds into crisis regions, is a really good tool. the commissioner has also noticed that in yugoslavia in particular people were grateful for this really quick and efficient aid, which was possible only because this instrument existed and not because of the lengthy one we usually have. i also believe that an extension to macedonia is really necessary, because the difficult political processes simply need to be helped along. this process is far from complete. the laws must be implemented so that the albanian citizens also see that they really have something from these amendments to the constitution. the macedonian residents of the region should see that the point is that if they behave as expected in democracies, they will also get such a reward by improving their daily lives. we agree with everything and we also agree with the reservations raised by mr färm. i think the commission is well aware of all this and certainly respects it. i would like to return to the establishment of the agency in macedonia. i believe that, in view of the poor results achieved in implementing and spending the funds allocated to this country since 1996, it would have been long past time to look for a remedy. i do not want to say whether they were unable or unwilling, but the government simply lacked the will and, ultimately, the ability of the delegation on the ground to help the government properly. the commission did not provide the necessary technical assistance to this government. i think it is good that the commissioner is now thinking about measures to speed up this. it is good for this agency to be doing an excellent job in kosovo. i think we will see that next weekend in belgrade. we hope that this will be possible, that they will finally do what the macedonians are all waiting for, and i have no objection to her being used. but, commissioner, my problem is that this is the way things are being handled. now it's made in macedonia. i don't know when you'll hit me so hard again. i would very much like to see a structure of this work in the region, and i would like to hear from you tonight whether you are willing, able to develop a concept that either decentralizes the delegations and enables them to do this work, or that you want to use these agencies throughout the region. i think that is the answer you owe us tonight, and i would like you to tell us tonight how long you think the commission will have to put this concept before us. i am prepared to wish you all the best in setting up this agency, because we have all had a very good experience. i do not want to be rude to the delegation on the ground. the delegation on the ground was not able to do what we expected of it because it was not concentrated, whatever that is, and it was not able to provide the technical assistance. i would like to ask you to give us a longer-term approach so that all the countries below can feel that they are treated fairly equally, and i think that is also important so that there is no competition between them.
commission. – mr president, i guess it would be a slight exaggeration to say that the chamber was packed with knowledgeable friends of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, but those who are here are eminently qualified to address this subject because i think that the honourable members who certainly know most about macedonia and who are, in some respects, most knowledgeable about southeast europe as a whole are in this chamber. i am extremely grateful for the contribution which honourable members have made to what has been a pretty successful development of europe's strategy in the balkans and i am particularly grateful to the rapporteur, mr lagendijk, for his report. perhaps i can just re-establish the context in which we are having this debate. honourable members know that macedonia was the first country with which we negotiated a stabilisation and association agreement. while we were negotiating that agreement, during each of my visits to fyrom – and i have visited skopje probably more than any other capital city in the world in the last couple of years – we were regularly on the receiving end of grumbles about the lack of speed of our delivery of development assistance. when the crisis came this year, we worked very hard and i pay a particular vote of gratitude to the work of my colleague, javier solana. we worked extremely hard to try to get fyrom back on the rails. we were delighted by the lake ohrid agreement and said straightaway that we would do everything we could to help the implementation of the framework agreement in lake ohrid. my concern, as i have explained to honourable members, was that unless we made a special effort, we would not deliver that assistance quickly enough. i would have very much liked to have gone through the process of deconcentration rather more rapidly to fyrom and delivered our assistance in a conventional way, but that was to run a risk. the most certain way in which we could deliver the assistance was by extending the work of the reconstruction agency and that is why we are all here this evening. i know that some honourable members were understandably a little confused about our management strategy. with the benefit of hindsight, with which we are all much wiser, it would perhaps have been sensible if i had consulted honourable members earlier. but i hope that we have managed to convince honourable members that there was no intention on our part to downgrade our relationship with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i saw president trikovsky earlier this week. he was en route to a prayer breakfast – i am afraid i was not – and i think that we have managed to convince him and the authorities in skopje now that we are just trying to deliver assistance as rapidly as possible and we have already been delivering assistance in the sectors electricity and housing, etc. it is understandable that honourable members should think that there is some confusion in our management strategy for the whole region, but i do not feel that i am being inconsistent in arguing, on the one hand, that we have to work through europe aid, through deconcentration, which has now begun and which we must now push as rapidly as possible, while on the other hand, saying there may be odd occasions, particularly crises, which require different sort of arrangements. we are considering for example, at the moment how to deal with the situation in afghanistan – whether we should put a task force into afghanistan in order to get quick-acting projects going as soon as possible. so i do not think that it is inconsistent to press ahead with the reform of europe aid, while at the same time thinking that from time to time other arrangements are necessary. perhaps i can just remind honourable members that we pledged eur 30 million to the implementation of the framework agreement and that we have also been disbursing eur 12.5 million under the rapid reaction mechanism. we have committed about eur 5 million through echo to humanitarian relief and we have got a regular cards programme of eur 42 million for this year for fyrom. all that work, except the echo dimension, will be put through the agency over the next couple of months. as far as we are concerned, the next event on the horizon will be the donors conference, which we will try to organise with the world bank. there are a number of conditions, as honourable members will know. we were first of all insisting on the implementation of the framework agreement on the passage of amendments to the constitution through the parliament in skopje. we also wanted a law on local government passed, because frankly if it is not, the united states is unlikely to come to a donors conference. it is absolutely crucial, as my colleague commissioner solbes would assure you, if we are to provide macro-financial assistance at a donors conference, that there must be an agreement with the international monetary fund. macro-financial assistance is never given unless there is such an agreement. president trikovsky assured me this week that an agreement with the imf is now on the cards and i think the relevant meeting in washington is at the beginning of december. i hope therefore that on the back of the passage of the legislation, which i have referred to, the constitutional amendments and the recommendation of an agreement to the board of the imf, we can hold a successful donors conference. if it is agreeable to all the parties, and to fyrom, we will do it before christmas, but at the moment when it looks as though it is likely to be most successful. what i do not want to do is to set a date for a second time and have to postpone it, because that would be calamitous. i am very grateful to honourable members for the fast delivery of their opinion on what we are proposing. i am sorry that i cannot express my gratitude by accepting all the amendments which have been put down. characteristically, i am not able to do that. some of the amendments, for example the references to the provisional nature of what we are doing, are of no real legal value. others, i am advised, are not really suitable for inclusion in a legal decision. i want however to respond slightly differently to two of the arguments which have been put and which you will understand. first of all, i want to assure the parliament that it would of course be consulted if there were any question of extending the agency to other countries. if we were to propose that, we would of course consult the parliament. secondly, honourable members, and this is a point that mr swoboda has made very eloquently, are concerned about the integrity of the management of what we are doing in southeast europe. they are concerned about the coherence of what we are doing in southeast europe and understandably press us to set out our strategy for the management of community assistance for the balkans. i am happy to do that. i just beg parliament not to press me to do it by 31 january. i will tell the parliament why. we have a good team of people working on the balkans in the commission. they spend three-quarters of their time in meetings in the council, in consultative task forces and in drafting reports; we are in the middle of drafting a report for the council, which of course the parliament will see, on the overall progress of the stabilisation and association process. i do not want to make unreasonable demands on them, but i can assure parliament that, as early next year as i can manage it, i will come to parliament to try to set out the sort of strategy which i think honourable members are entitled to ask for and which we should be pleased to give. it is very important that parliament should make sure from time to time that we actually know what we are doing. i have been in this job for just over two years and what i am going to say does not suggest that all that has happened is because there has been a new commission – i am not suggesting that at all. but we have seen, first of all, a transformation in the region with the latest admirable events, as the honourable gentleman said: the elections in kosovo and the developments in fyrom. we know that every time we take a couple of steps forward, something will happen which pushes us back again, but i think that from croatia to serbia, to macedonia and albania, we are heading in the right direction. we have a coherent strategy and we have made a remarkable amount of progress. we have made that progress because we have worked together in a way which has extended stability to the region and underpinned those who are prepared bravely to argue and work for economic and political reform. at the end of the stabilising and association process is the prospect of potential membership of the european union. that has been the most formidable element in bringing greater peace and stability to southeast europe. we must make sure that the huge amount of political and financial investment that we have made in the last couple of years continues to pay off in steady progress and development. that will of course be more likely if we are able to continue to work with members of the parliament.
- i can confirm that. president trajkovski was at the prayer lunch, not you. but i also see that the way things are going, we will soon have more commissioners than members of parliament. that's interesting information here too!
commission. – i suggested, president that he should pray for me.
- i did it!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the case of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, mr farm has made it very clear that we are talking about two things: on the one hand, an increase in the amount of aid and, on the other hand, an extension of the deadline for implementing it. we have so far disbursed 30 million euros because of some delays in reaching agreement with the international monetary fund on its economic programme. it is true that the conditions set out in relation to the constitutional changes which are being put in place, and the necessary support we are giving to the economic stabilisation and reform process, require cooperation with the imf and, according to our information, the authorities of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia are very close to establishing an economic framework which will be accompanied by the monitoring programme, and which would serve as a link with a support programme from the fund. the economic situation remains extremely precarious. that is why the international monetary fund has informed us of the short-term financial needs and the need for increased contributions from the various donors to cover the external financing gap in 2001 and 2002. that is the fundamental reason for our decision to increase our contributions to macedonia by an additional 18 million. in the case of bosnia and herzegovina, we are currently implementing aid. there are 60 million, 40 in donations and 20 in loans. the first two tranches have already been disbursed, at the end of 1999 and at the end of 2000, and the process of economic stabilisation and reform is progressing. we have a final tranche of 15 million euros to pay and the conditions for disbursement are very close to being met. a commission mission is in sarajevo this week to assess progress and, more generally, it is worth noting that the new government, which has been elected, is sometimes slow in carrying out the reform processes and is negotiating a new programme with the imf. mr farm also referred to the need to extend the deadline given that the deadline initially set for the implementation of the contributions had expired. the rapporteur also suggested that the financial or macrofinancial assistance to the federal republic of yugoslavia should also be modified. the 300 million, 225 loan and 75 donation, are proving insufficient. we have already disbursed 260 and at the moment the commission is preparing a forthcoming contact with the yugoslav authorities which will allow us - we hope - to disburse the second tranche, provided the conditions are met. however, it is true that, according to the information received from the international monetary fund, additional external financing will be needed to eliminate the new financing shortfall of eur 150 million, and that is why we propose to increase the donation element by eur 45 million to a maximum donation of eur 120 million. i want to thank mr. farm for his dedication to this issue. the importance and the speed with which you've handled it. i would also like to thank the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr wynn, and mr brok, chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, for their support. as regards the amendments which have been tabled, i should like to distinguish between different groups of them. the amendments relating to political conditionality, the financial regulation and the multiannual financial framework are in principle acceptable, although they raise certain problems of presentation or consistency in some specific cases. it is consistent, for example, with the reference to the cards theme in relation to multiannual aid, because - as we have already stressed several times in these plenary sessions - the cards basis has nothing to do with macrofinancial aid. these are totally different elements, and i think we should keep the processes separate in order to use them correctly in each of the cases that arise. we are also not in favour of referring to this as totally exceptional and unprecedented assistance for the future. it's true that it is. but that is practically the case with all macrofinancial assistance. we therefore think that there is no point in discussing this subject today. we also do not think it is too sensible to include elements which would cause additional delays in the whole process of making this aid available. in this sense, with the proper information that we will always give to parliament, we should think much better about the role of the committee on assistance, which is of a different nature. all these issues can be clarified in more detail later, but i wanted to give a preview of what our initial position is.
- thank you very much, commissioner solbes! the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the proposal for a european parliament and council decision (com (2001) 612 - c5-0520/2001 - 2001/0251 (cod)) on the european community contribution to the global fund to fight hiv/aids, tuberculosis and malaria.
commission. – let me first of all thank you for the kind reaction from parliament. the commission requested the urgency procedure to establish a legal base for a financial commitment to the fund under this year's budget amending the legal base of budget line b7-6211 aid for poverty related diseases in developing countries. we proposed to transfer eur 60 million to this line. this proposal is of high political importance as the fund has attracted wide interest and these are high hopes for its success. i agree with the content of comments by mr sylla and mr rod reflecting the fact that there are indeed many questions to be asked. we still have many unanswered questions. this is the real reason why it has not been easy or possible for the commission to move this dossier forward in a very nice, elegant and timely manner. it has not yet been negotiated at international level, but we still need the budget operation that we are discussing tonight. i regret that the proposal was transmitted so late in the year to the budget authority but this reflects the fact that we did not have anything good or clear enough before that. i appreciate your determination in parliament to make this process a success, despite these procedural hurdles. i welcome the outcome of the discussions last week between the three institutions. i note that parliament has made further efforts to take account of council's wish for further changes in the recitals. the commission can accept the oral amendment proposed by the honourable meps here today and for which you will vote tomorrow, in order to obtain a timely agreement by council. as regards accounting, auditing and reporting, we want this to be totally transparent vis-à-vis parliament. i would however, for the sake of transparency, like to express some sort of warning because if the idea is to pool resources in a global fund, we must avoid becoming such a difficult partner in this work by insisting on our systems of reporting, our auditing and our accounting procedures. this is the problem we have already with other international organisations and where the commission is an inadequate partner in many cases. some adaptability is also needed if we are to be a well-functioning partner in this endeavour. the commission has no reservations as to the actual amendments presented here but we need to keep in mind that this is a collective effort and that is the whole core of the idea. in reply to mr khanbhai's remarks that not one euro has been given here, let me say that every day we are pumping money into the fight against aids, malaria, tuberculosis. it would be a big mistake to think – and even worse to express – that the only thing we are doing is in relation to this fund. everybody knows that this is not the case but we hope this fund will add something to the other ways in which we are working. that is what we are essentially trying to ensure in the negotiations taking place right now, to see if we can straighten out these contentious issues. we are preparing a revised regulation for the b7-6211 budget line. this longer-term legal basis will serve as the base for implementation of the programme for action on communicable diseases in the years 2003-2006. it is proposed that future support to global initiatives such as the global fund would be financed from this budget line. we still have to discuss the level of funding. in the first reading of the budget for 2002, parliament proposed a new specific budget line for the fund from next year onwards but we have now agreed to regroup this specific budget line with the one for poverty diseases and use one integrated legal basis. as i indicated before, the commission wishes to continue exchanges with parliament on the modalities and working methods of the fund over the coming period. the fund is expected to be up and running from january 2002 and all members of the fund's transitional working group are in discussion, trying to achieve consensus on a large number of outstanding and difficult issues. the commission is trying to play a constructive and active role in these discussions and i look forward to reporting to parliament on this process. i also look forward to working together with parliament to make this new fund something which will actually increase the efficiency of our response to the struggle against these diseases. finally, let me reconfirm our proposal to allocate an addition eur 60 million from the 9th edf funds once the cotonou agreement is ratified and discussions have been finalised with the acp group. these funds will be earmarked for activities in acp countries. i agree, this complicates, to some extent, the administrative function of a global fund, but i do not think we have any choice here. this is a fact of life and it is not the biggest problem we are facing. thank you once again for the cooperative manner in which parliament has handled this matter in spite of the difficulties that we have had.
- thank you very much, commissioner nielson! the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. the next item is the report (doc. (the sitting was closed at 12.15 p.m.)
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr fiori, for his excellent work. i think he has made an excellent report, and the political message is clear: we say yes to research, we say yes to the treatment of serious diseases, but human dignity is the supreme principle, and it can also limit research. that means, for example, that we reject the cloning of humans at all stages of their development. the news from the united states that the company act has cloned a human embryo has shocked us all. people are right to be worried. i believe that opposing the cloning of human embryos is neither right-wing nor conservative. i quote from a document of the french communist party. it says: the authorization of therapeutic cloning by nuclear transfer raises many ethical problems. the first problem is the embryo. the second problem concerns the woman as an egg donor and the risk of creating a genuine market. the third problem concerns the precautions to be taken in relation to reproductive cloning. the two objectives of cloning may differ, but it is clear that there is a great risk of a kind of automation, and we do not yet have the means to control this area. there's nothing to add to that. the so-called therapeutic cloning of embryos leads to reproductive cloning and must therefore be banned. that is what the fiori report says. i am shocked by the amendments tabled by the socialists and others who want to remove this passage from the fiori report. it is not logical in the argument of those who want to delete it. we decided in the caudron report that we do not want to promote embryo cloning. i thank commissioner busquin for making it clear again at the beginning of the week that the commission will not support this technology. but if we don't ban it then that's an invitation to companies like act to come to europe when it's banned in the us. i cannot imagine that the majority of this parliament would want that. i therefore ask you to support the fiori report and reject the requests for deletion.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the first human cloning trials in the united states must be a reminder to us today to clearly and unequivocally stop any human cloning. the distinction between therapeutic and reproductive cloning is a semantic trick. in both cases, an embryo is created, discarded, destroyed and used as a raw material. we must therefore oppose cloning, because the deliberate creation of life for research purposes is a violation of human dignity. man must never become a means to an end. human life is not a commodity. it must not be reduced to a commodity, and the production of human embryos as spare parts is incompatible with human dignity, but for us, and this must be made clear today, human dignity clearly takes precedence over research. therapeutic cloning is a precursor to reproductive cloning and has a knock-on effect. we must have a clear ban on therapeutic cloning, otherwise we cannot stop the danger of an escalation in the worldwide abuse of embryos. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. again, this is basically therapeutic cloning. we must therefore send a clear signal today that we do not want a society in which women become egg suppliers and embryos are turned into lucrative commodities. we have a clear alternative to embryonic stem cell research with adult stem cell research, and therapeutic cloning is no longer necessary. the commission has also been very clear in its approach to patenting, and we must expect it to put an end to the current state of confusion about what can be patented and to give the member states clear guidance on this matter, because we must not turn the discovery of human life into an invention. human life is not created by third parties. so we need a clear signal. europe cannot be an ethical minefield. we need clear ethical boundaries. we must not have loopholes in the law, and for us human dignity must clearly be our guiding principle!
mr president, after about a year of intensive study of the findings of human genetics and their influence on medicine, after countless hearings and discussions during information visits, i am today one less hopeful. i'm disappointed, to say the least. the ad hoc committee on human genetics and new medical technologies has not achieved the goal i had hoped for. the report adopted by the committee will not provide the basis for coherent biotechnology legislation in the member states of the european union, which many of us, including myself, have been hoping for. it is a matter of the council's being able to take a decision on the matter. these pieces won't fit together so well in the end. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to at least prevent the worst. let us decide what takes into account the social, economic and legal aspects in a balanced way and in no way overturns narrow ethical boundaries. the european parliament must not fail in this. we have to set standards here. in representative democracy, the task of setting standards is the responsibility of the directly elected parliament, not the responsibility of governments or even forces that are not primarily committed to the common good. the german and french governments set the stage for a common position on the economic and ethical issues raised by biotechnology at the consultations held in nantes last weekend. i quote from a german government document: 'such a vote between germany and france could be the prelude to a wider vote at european level.' the european parliament can cut the road and start today. the human genetics committee, as we call it for short, has carefully compiled the necessary information and the spectrum of assessments. the whole parliament must now show the way to the future of the biotechnological revolution for science, medicine and industry in the member states of the union. but we must not fall into the trap of a false belief in progress. not every progress made by man is also progress for mankind. but we must not submit to ideologies or dogmas, let alone try to establish new ones. many feel so insecure about their moral standing that they would like to forget it. but there is a lot of clarity here. sometimes we just don't see it. for example, a fertilized human egg can become only a human and nothing else. so from the moment the male sperm is united with the female egg, human dignity is protected. this absolute fundamental right has been written down again and again, most recently at the beginning of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. we just have to stick to it. in this context, we cannot accept cloning for any purpose, whether reproductive or therapeutic. you can't do that! this also excludes the possibility of using embryos for research purposes or even of producing them. the medical ethics of helping and healing, but also the view of the catastrophic consequences in all respects, forbid targeted interventions in the human germline. i would like to leave it at that. we must respect a number of other limits when we vote this afternoon. but we must also acknowledge the progress in the biological sciences today. if they are properly promoted, they may bring us closer to the dream of victory over disease and suffering, and we should be promoting the alternatives in the field of adult stem cells, for example, much more than we are doing now. i think that's where the future is.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. i thank mr fiori for his comprehensive report. we are now in a state of conflict between the breathtaking progress of modern medicine and the ethical foundations of our society. the deciphering of the human genome, the assignment of function to genes, new techniques in medicine and now also stem cell therapy are opening up revolutionary new possibilities for curing very specific diseases. but at the same time, our political responsibility is growing. the task of politics is to define clear boundaries and to give a clear value orientation. we must not allow scientific progress and the resulting hopes for treatment to erode ethical boundaries. the act company has put us in front of a fait accompli this week with the creation of a human embryo by nuclear transfer. this is a clear violation of ethical boundaries. it is therefore urgent that we send a clear signal from the european parliament to protect human dignity against frontiers and taboo research. it is therefore necessary to speak out clearly against the reproductive and therapeutic cloning of human embryos, against any interference with the human genome and against the production of human embryos for research purposes alone. this prohibition must apply to both private and public research. in the field of stem cell research, i am opposed in principle to research on embryos that consume. however, i think that research on the 72 embryonic stem cell lines that existed before 1 august 2001 is acceptable in basic research. instead of making life available in general, research on foetal and adult stem cells must be given special encouragement as an alternative. every human being has the right to uniqueness. we must be very firm in our political defence of this right in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the discussion we're having here touches on the fundamental questions of being human. is there a right to health for life? is there a right to a female child, or a right to a healthy female child, or in the end, a right to eternal life, of course, in health? new techniques are available. many promises of salvation are made to us. they have not been proven, at least not in the field of embryonic stem cell research. do we really want to be blinded by selfish research interests? do we want to be used by industry for its commercial interests? the term "therapeutic clones" is a scam. it can also be used for reproduction. the production of clones or the use of so-called surplus embryos for the purpose of weaning, for the use of stem cells, is this ethically acceptable? no, it is not acceptable! it's more like a modern form of cannibalism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there are viable alternatives, adult stem cells, stem cells from umbilical cord blood. these techniques are already proving to be very successful in practical applications, far more successful than embryonic stem cell research. these alternatives are ethically sound. politics is called upon to set limits. science is not able to do this, because it does not want to. we have to decide! we must be brave in the face of all opposition! no use of embryonic stem cells, cloned or surplus, it doesn't matter. no interference with the human germ line. no selection, no choice between worthwhile and worthless lives, but support for research in the search for alternatives. let us be brave and set firm limits. it's about time!
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. what mr heaton-harris has just said is partly true. mr heaton-harris referred to the part concerning an interim solution by an in-house prosecutor, while the other amendments to the proposal for a directive have been adopted. i think that this referral back is not necessarily the procedure by which we can solve the problem that has arisen from the vote. i cannot judge, and i do not see how this report can be changed, given the votes in the committee.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. madam president, my speech is basically over. i signed up before the vote. in fact, the adoption of motion no 10 effectively terminates this request. i agree with mr corbett because we have called for an adequate representation of both sexes. of course, it can be fifty-fifty, it doesn't have to be two-thirds of one gender and only one-third of the other. so the motion we accepted goes forward. we made the right decision in that respect.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we, as rapporteur, propose that the words 'final summit in december 2003' be deleted and replaced by 'opening summit'. then we'll continue as in the text. there is a practical reason for this. the end of the convention is very likely to be in june 2003, and if we do not want to have a break of more than three months before the start of the intergovernmental conference, it cannot be in december, but after the summer break. therefore, this needs to be changed to the applicants' view that it should read: 'the end of the convention and the opening summit of the intergovernmental conference should not be more than three months apart.' this is the oral proposal.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the 18th amendment is only a change of venue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. firstly, this motion is not the group's but my own as rapporteur's. the aim of this proposal is to improve the logic of the text and to make the statements on regulatory agencies more coherent. i spoke to the various groups yesterday about this and there was agreement. in other words, motion no 9 refers to paragraph 19, namely the deletion of the second part of the paragraph. at the same time, the paragraph thus abbreviated should be inserted immediately after the heading 'autonomous regulatory authorities' before point 16. in the fifth line of paragraph 16, the word 'only' must be inserted, so that it is written: '... may be agreed only if ...'. since i have the floor, there is a translation error in the swedish version of paragraph 27. it should be called 'committee of the regions' instead of 'economic and social committee'.
i have to say, madam president, after the drafting of the motion for a resolution on egypt, we received a letter from the president of the egyptian parliament, which we should not have received. i would therefore like to table an oral amendment to add the following after recital e:
- madam president! - what is it? i voted against the commission's proposal because the commission is using the reform of its financial management, which i believe is urgently needed, as a pretext to weaken the european parliament's powers of control. the ec treaty provides that the commission shall provide parliament with all necessary information at its request. the commission now intends to make reservations about this right to information in the financial regulation. in future, for example, the commission will consider whether the provision of information to parliament would be contrary to the interests of the union. this creates the absurd situation where the person being audited, i.e. the commission, decides what information to submit to the auditor, i.e. parliament, and what not. it is not only parliament that is weakened, but the commission itself. it will be accused of not having learned from the past and of continuing to evade effective control.
in writing. - i welcome the good work of the rapporteurs and have therefore voted in favour of their report. i regret, however, that for the second time in this context a problem has arisen with regard to the concepts of 'constitution' and 'constitutional treaty'. the vote in plenary on the méndez de vigo/seguro report on the treaty of nice and the future of the union on 31 may 2001 required a formal corrigendum to the treaty, with the correct expression 'constitutional treaty'. the problem was repeated in the committee on constitutional affairs during the vote on the leinen/méndez de vigo report on the laeken european council and the future of the european union, on 22 october 2001 in strasbourg, because of different voting documents - the compromise amendments were only available in english and french - and, despite my intervention, it could not be resolved subsequently by an oral correction of the text. i ask the bureau of parliament to look into this incident.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the house has today shown itself unworthy of the excellent report of a committee on human genetics. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the protection of human health and the environment. i am proud that this committee has worked for almost a year to produce this great report, which will stand as the result of a committee of real experts. this house has yet to learn how to deal with this report with dignity. i appeal to the citizens, and i appeal to the human rights organizations in the european union, which are finally becoming as active as the animal rights organizations, to look closely at the voting behaviour of our colleagues here and to join us in a debate so that this house can remain on the line it has taken since the gergo report in the early 1980s, namely to stand up for life, human life for man. from conception to natural death, the human being deserves our full protection without any relative!
- voting is closed. transmission of texts adopted at this part-session - calendar of forthcoming partsession: see minutes.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 2.13 p.m.)
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. mr baron crespo has made a remark which is open to debate. i would like to express on behalf of the group of the european people's party our hope that the italian government, in which we have the greatest confidence, will make its contribution so that we can reach an agreement in the end. the fight against terrorism is our priority, and there must be no distinction between political families. i also think, mr baron crespo, that this is not a subject for partisan debate, and we also know - please listen to me, i am trying to be very objective - that there is no result in the party statute. you also know that it was not my party friends who contributed to its failure in the main: i ask you to express the criticism you express in other cases also to your own party if we do not reach results, as we are doing now with the party statute. their credibility would be enhanced if they were measured by the same standards on all sides of the political spectrum. (applause from the right)
- madam president! - what is it? i think it is a powerful thing to compare the european arrest warrant to a party statute! but there are of course parties - particularly in germany - where the arrest warrant and the party statute are close together. (applause and cheers) i just wanted to say one thing to mr liese: the whole of forza italia has agreed with all the positions of the european parliament in all the hearings held in this house so far on the commission's proposals. i wonder why the italian prime minister, who is from mr lieses' party - mr liese himself has also agreed to this - is now instructing his minister of the interior to veto criminal acts which we all supported being prosecuted at european level. i ask whether this has anything to do with party politics, but not with what mr enrique barón has rightly said here. (applause from the centre)
- madam president, mr poettering had just mentioned the european party statute in his european arrest warrant. the only connection is that we want both. i do not quite understand your criticism of our group. in any case, you spoke as if it were our group's fault that this did not happen. after all, according to my information, things were different. there were governments that wanted to achieve this status for parties from two countries. this cannot be true, the european statute cannot be a covert funding of national or regional parties. i just wanted to put this on record so that there would be no wrong impression or wrong debate.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, and mr commissioner, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are convinced that even today, without this food safety authority, the food that people in the european union eat is safe. so sure that i'm convinced they're among the safest in the world. but if we still think that a food safety authority is an advantage and an improvement in the european union, then there must be a reason for that. i would like to mention three conditions which i believe must be met for such an improvement. mr bowis and mr whitehead have already approached them. first, the quality of the experts. it is not possible for member states to send those they wish to get rid of to this authority as experts and scientists. it is your job, commissioner, to invite the member states to send only the best of the best. secondly, we need transparency and openness to improve. even more than the scientific committees, which have been highly transparent since the bse crisis, the authority must ensure that the public's trust is rightly placed in it. that means she has to be open and transparent about what she does. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it is also your task, the commission's task, to convey to the member states that monitoring and control are the most specific tasks of the member states, which you have criminally neglected in recent years. if we want to continue to guarantee food safety, if we want to guarantee even more safety, if we want to regain the confidence of the population, then we will only do so under these conditions and with increased controls. the new food safety authority will then be a step forward for the european union. i ask you, commissioner, to ensure that this is the case.
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. mr president, i would like to thank you for the excellent work you have done, as expected. i believe that this regulation and also this legal basis will contribute to improving food safety in the european union in the following measures. we are thus setting out the overarching principles of the new food law. in the area of general food law, i would like to mention in particular the fact that the principle of the perfect design of methods for improving food safety from the farm to the consumer has been developed convincingly. the principle of guaranteed traceability of products remains an essential part of the principles enshrined in this framework. i think we have created two fundamentally new principles and requirements for improving food safety. the regulation focuses on the creation of the european food safety authority, or as it is also called in the amendment, the 'food safety authority'. i do not want to dwell on the definition. i am particularly concerned about the creation of the framework conditions for this authority. firstly, it requires adequate financial resources. i think that this has not been achieved to the extent that we would like, nor has the creation of conditions enabling the authority to communicate with the various authorities in the member states; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. there's still a lot of work to be done here. as regards the public nature of the authority, i think that the amendment by parliament is certainly correct, but we must also ensure that the authority can meet behind closed doors in certain circumstances. the essential point, as many have already said, is the location, and if the council rejects our proposals, then i think it is the council's intention to place the authority where our demands and conditions are not met. we can't let this go. we cannot accept that either. the council must finally make a decision and choose a location that allows communication with the commission, parliament and the member states.
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am convinced, as mr titford is, that the establishment of an efficient independent european food authority as an early warning system is very welcome. it is intended to act as a transparent scientific reference point for the commission, parliament and the member states, but it must also be open to producers and consumers. the aim of the programme is to provide advice, information and risk communication to consumers in order to help build confidence in our food. food safety is the fundamental requirement for consumers who want to eat healthy food, and we must ensure that. the food scandals of recent years have shown that the most important thing is the consistent implementation of directives and the control of food and feed on the spot. the optimum networking of the scientific facilities of this authority with the control bodies in the member states is the essential prerequisite for a complete traceability of production. this creates security from producer to consumer. imported food must be as safe as food produced in the eu. the current strict controls at the eu's external borders on food imports guarantee this security. in parallel, the countries of central and eastern europe must have functioning systems for the monitoring of food safety and feed before accession. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the health of workers are respected. it is necessary to keep the grey area between the two product categories, food and medicinal products, as small as possible. if this is not possible, it will lead to new problems of demarcation and legal uncertainty. it is therefore urgently necessary to ensure that the revision of the legislation on medicinal products establishes a clear definition of foodstuffs and medicinal products throughout the eu, i.e. a clear demarcation, because only by means of clear definitions do we contribute to greater consumer safety.
commission. – madam president, i recall that when president prodi first offered me this particular portfolio in july 1999 he emphasised to me the importance of food safety during the life of this commission. he particularly suggested the importance of establishing a food safety authority during that period also. he said that it was important that the consumers of the european union had the same confidence in such an institution as us consumers have in their food and drugs administration. i hope that the new authority can deliver on this for our consumers and for our citizens. i should like to take this opportunity to thank president prodi for his ongoing support during our work to make his idea a concrete reality. the wide scope of the general food law covering all aspects of the food and feed production chain that may have a direct or indirect impact on the safety of food has been maintained throughout the first and second readings. the commission welcomes this. we also underline the importance of the wide remit which has been retained for the work of the european food safety authority. it is important that the food authority builds a comprehensive overview of the entire chain. this should include aspects of animal health and welfare, animal feed safety and plant health, in particular at the primary production level. given our recent food safety problems, it would have been unthinkable to have a food authority that did not cover such matters. the commission supports amendment no 1 which proposes that the authority be called the european food safety authority, while ensuring that the broad remit, which is so important, is not affected. the commission can support amendments nos 29 to 44 by mr whitehead, mr bowis, mrs paulsen and mr staes. these replace amendments nos 2 to 6, 9, 11, 12, 15, 17, 18, 20, 25 and 27, which i do not support. i can also accept amendments nos 7, 10, 13, 14, 16, 19, 21 and 26. many of these add clarity to the text or enhance the transparency of the development of food law or the procedures of the european food safety authority. i also welcome amendments nos 22, 23 and 24 which adjust the text to ensure that the correct budgetary procedures are in place and that arrangements for third countries, notably efta countries, are appropriate and in line with normal procedures for agencies. the commission cannot accept amendment no 8 which would allow unsafe food and feed to be exported from the community to the original supplier in a third country without any constraints or controls. this is clearly an unacceptable practice that i am not willing to support. rejected food or feed could end up being used either in a third country or being shipped back to the eu and that would constitute a risk to food safety. from experience, the commission knows that such practices are also potentially open to fraud and black market abuse. i do not support amendment no 28 which refers to the selection procedure for the seat, as well as defining the selection criteria. however, i note that parliament is also proposing another approach. this involves adopting a resolution to the report which calls upon the council to consider certain criteria in its selection of the authority's seat. this house is aware that i believe strongly that the authority's seat should be chosen on rational and operational criteria that will facilitate the smooth working of the efsa. for these reasons i can support the principles expressed in the resolution. i also support the joint declaration from the commission, council and parliament concerning the members of the management board of the authority. i believe that amendment no 37 on the board's size, the selection process and membership criteria achieves the right balance between the different views expressed at first reading by the three institutions. in conclusion, i should like to say that since i took up office as commissioner for health and consumer protection, i have made it clear that the establishment of the european food safety authority was a top priority. community measures which protect the safety of the food supply require a sound scientific basis and the authority will provide this. the authority is designed to be europe's automatic first port of call on scientific matters relating to the safety of our food supply. today we are taking an important step towards the establishment of the authority, towards giving the european consumer the safest food supply in the world, which is our ultimate goal. i would like to thank mr whitehead, his team and parliamentary colleagues who have worked closely with him on the amendments at second reading, and also mr bowis, mrs paulsen and mr staes. i want to thank you for the close working relationship that existed between all of us – not just between our two great institutions, but also on a personal level between myself and all four of you. i discussed these issues with each of you at some stage over the last few months. in addition, i would like to thank the council, both the swedish and belgian presidencies, and also the minister magda aelvoet, who put her own shoulder to the wheel on this issue on a number of occasions. i also thank the people in my own commission who worked with me so assiduously, so carefully and so hard. not only do i appreciate the excellent work that has been done, but i would like to thank all those involved for the speed with which this complex proposal has been dealt with. the spirit of collaboration with which the three great institutions have approached this file has been admirable. it is clear from the amendments on which parliament will vote that compromises have been sought which should enable the regulation to be adopted without a time-wasting conciliation process. this will facilitate the establishment of the european food safety authority early next year.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to begin by thanking the commission for its excellent and constructive support of this telecom package throughout the discussions. i would also like to thank the belgian presidency for its great commitment and its efforts to try to achieve a compromise between the council and parliament, and i think that if we reach an agreement on wednesday - which i very much hope - we will be able to do so thanks to the excellent negotiating skills of the belgian presidency. thank you very much. i would like to thank all the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs who have not only worked together in an excellent way over the many months, but also contributed constructively to the compromise. the european union has achieved immense things in the telecommunications market over the last 12 years. the monopoly of the incumbent operators has been broken and the market has been fully liberalised and deregulated in many areas, for the benefit of both consumers and the economy. the falling prices, the many new offers and services from different operators are a visible result. but of course there is nothing that does not need to be improved. this was shown by the results of the telecom report in 1999 and more recently by the commission's seventh implementation report. i 'll just say a few catchphrases: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the last mile is unbundled in favour of alternative operators, and there is still work to be done in the member states, and the subscriber line is still unsatisfactory in some member states. there are still dumping prices from established operators and there are still bottlenecks in the leased lines sector. the new telecoms regulatory framework is designed to remedy this. i should like to begin by briefly presenting my two reports on the telecommunications package, and then to address two other critical points in the other directives. first of all, the directive on authorization. the purpose of the authorisation directive is to harmonise the authorisation systems in the member states. i would like to stress once again, as i said at the first reading, that the commission has put forward excellent proposals, which i welcomed at the first reading and which i strongly support at the second reading. the procedures for operating communication networks and providing communication services have been different. the conditions were different, in particular the information obligations of operators, the length of the procedures, the cost and the content of the authorisations. the new licensing directive will now remove this situation. the directive also provides for a paradigm shift, as the authorisation regime is to change. in practice, individual authorizations have been used up to now, but the implementation of the authorisation directive will lead to a change to general authorizations, which means that the operator of a communications network will no longer have to obtain a decision from the authorities in advance, but will only have to indicate that he wishes to operate his network here, but he will of course have to comply with the conditions set out in the general authorization or the directives. the new directive simplifies the obligations of operators, particularly the obligation to provide information, and limits itself to the minimum necessary, which is also a very user-friendly solution. we have succeeded as a parliament in bringing more transparency to the award of rights of way, for example by establishing a register of procedures for the award of rights of way in the member states, and we have also succeeded in guaranteeing legal protection against decisions on rights of way in all the member states. we would have liked to have achieved more, especially in terms of cost. here too parliament had made it a point not to impose on operators excessive costs, as i would put it, for rights of way, numbers, allocation and frequencies in future. we have not yet reached the end of the discussion on this point. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second issue is the frequency decision. the purpose of the decision is to involve the commission more closely in the future in the award of radio spectrum. that's right and good. frequencies are scarce economic assets, the allocation of frequencies is a highly political decision that must be taken, and we must therefore ensure that the politically responsible decision makers are also involved. the allocation of frequencies, the allocation of frequencies and the allocation of frequencies are no longer a technical matter but a political game. there are two points on which the council and parliament are not yet in full agreement, and i am particularly pleased that minister daems is also present in the house today. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the budget is properly spent. the one point which parliament has raised on several occasions was the question of how parliament will be involved in future decisions on radio spectrum policy. we as a parliament had demanded that whenever it comes to the reallocation of frequencies in particular, parliament must be consulted, heard and involved in decision-making in the context of co-decision. we have also adopted an amendment to this effect in committee at the second reading, which guarantees us this right as a binding article in the directive, in the decision. the council now only wants to include this article or this proposal as a consideration in the decision. i would ask mr daems to reconsider this, and if we agree that parliament should also have a say in this matter of frequency policy in the co-decision procedure, then we can also take this into account in the decision and not just consider it. the second point concerns the extent to which the commission should be concerned with the allocation of frequencies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i see in the decision or the proposal of the belgian presidency of the council, as i have it before me, that the removal of the two little words in amendment no 1, namely in particular, here, does extend the decision-making powers considerably. i would ask the minister responsible to consider whether we could agree to delete these two little words, because then we would respect the principle of subsidiarity and thereby arrive at a solution between the council and parliament. i cannot imagine that the council would not accept that. i would like to make two further points which relate to other directives, namely the framework directive and the universal service directive. i would like to begin by thanking the belgian presidency once again. the belgian presidency has worked out an excellent compromise with the council on article 6. the question is who will have the power to decide on telecommunications matters in future: the commission or the member states. i believe that we can accept as a parliament what has been achieved by compromise. many colleagues would have liked us to have gone further in this area, but that has not been possible. but what is now emerging as a compromise, namely that the commission can intervene in competition law matters, in particular in the matters of market definition and the question of what is significant market power, i believe is a fair compromise. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. we have been thinking for many years about how we could promote digital television in europe even more. it is a matter of concern to me that the belgian presidency has now changed its proposals, and one of the great disappointments for me is that we have achieved nothing or very little here. it's two points. the question is: can we extend the transmission obligations to api and ipg? we have unanimously called for this in parliament throughout the negotiations, and i would ask the commission to think about how we can ensure this. i also think that more needs to be done on the subject of a 'common uniform standard in the european union' for digital television than has been shown so far by the belgian presidency of the council. perhaps the commission can also send a clear signal here to help digital television in europe to make a real breakthrough.
- mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to make a few points in a short time. mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and for the work he has done in this area. they say we've reached a good compromise. i see it too. i think that many of my colleagues in the group will feel the same way. the compromise is acceptable. there are many points on which further negotiations are needed. my colleague wim van velzen has given the right keyword. we'll have to negotiate further. we will have to continue to fight to achieve a common internal market, because this is only a step and more work will be needed. i think we have a difficulty in parliament, and i have heard many voices saying that it is difficult to have an informal trilogue at second reading. it means a lot of work, a lot of time investment, given all the language difficulties that come with it. the whole package before us is very complex and requires a great deal of detailed work. i think we will have to invest more in the future here on the part of parliament - i am addressing this to parliament, not so much to the commission and the council, although indirectly, of course - to ensure that we also have all the necessary support that such a complex work requires in political terms. the internal market will not be fully guaranteed. it is true that the commission will have more power and enforcement in the future. we didn't call it a veto. that is probably politically wise, but it is nevertheless moving in that direction. national regulatory authorities shall nevertheless have the possibility to ensure their respective market penetration in their national markets through cooperation and consultation. there is an interesting definition of a transnational market. however, we still have two problems - as some colleagues have pointed out - in the area of interoperability of standards. i think that the proposal is not sufficient. i do not understand why our countries are not in favour of interoperability in the standard area. i hope there's more to come. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. i would just like to point out that our colleague from wogau will hopefully come forward next year with an interesting report which will include more fully the question of parliament's involvement in such technical consultation processes. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would be delighted if you could do that again today.
- mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commission, the council and all my colleagues. they have made a significant contribution to the development of the telecommunications market in the european union. but unlike the word 'associated', there is something hidden behind the telecommunications market which has been overlooked, particularly in the present council opinion. this is digital tv. i very much welcome the fact that not only the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, whose deliberations i am here to contribute to, but also the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy have unanimously drawn attention to the fact that it is not enough just to try to avoid the danger of a digital divide in the european union with words. i am not talking about disabled access, where i think there has been really important progress. i am talking about the principle of digital access for all, but which also requires the interoperability of devices, application interfaces and services. i am sorry to say this, and i would like to express my gratitude to the belgian presidency for everything else, but this is the disadvantage of this result: the way forward for equal access through a common standard for digital television is now being laid, and of course we need a balanced balance between market development and public service obligations, but these two aspects have been taken into account by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy and the committee on legal affairs and the internal market in their decision-making. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. please improve on this point, and we would all be delighted to agree. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council will be consulted on the matter. i was one of the few who were not satisfied with article 6 of the framework directive at first reading. the compromise now proposed has my approval. i think we have managed to strike a balance between the proximity of the national regulators to the market and the veto, the right of objection, of the commission to promote the internal market, because that is what we are all for, including ourselves. we are still seeing a fragmentation of the markets. i would like to say a few words about the procedure itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i would just like to make one more pointed admonition. we should not always deprive ourselves as a parliament - and this concerns us - of the rights we have in the legislative procedure. we will see this once in a while when the need arises, but i think it must remain the exception. i would like to make one more point. the rapporteur has made it very clear - and as a member of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy i can only emphasize this - that a common standard and interoperability for digital television is not only an industrial policy issue but also a consumer issue. i have always promised my consumers and my citizens that we will provide a standard where they can receive everything they want to see with one device and not have to put up multiple devices. i think we're gonna have to go a little bit further down this road. i would like to stress exactly what my predecessor, mrs hieronymi, has called for. perhaps the commission and the council can still jump a little far over the small shadow of compromise that lies over digital television. it would also make it much easier for me to agree to the overall package. i shall end by saying that i have kept my speaking time.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am speaking as rapporteur for the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport on the licensing and the radio spectrum directive and as shadow rapporteur for my group on the framework directive. all these reports were unanimously adopted by the committee on culture and we succeeded in bringing the position of the committee on culture to the attention of the committee responsible on the main points. the council, on the other hand, has completely ignored all the committee's concerns, and this is more than disappointing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the telecommunications sector is not left behind. the technical convergence means that electronic offers are not only to be distinguished by the type of distribution channel and the receiving device, but, in concrete terms, it is above all digital television from our point of view and other offers of publicity relevance. the committee on culture therefore wants europe's cultural diversity to be integrated into the networks in all its breadth and not just subject to the laws of the market and competition. this means that the question of interoperability is as indispensable as the transmission obligations in our view. only in this way will the member states and market players have the legal certainty to guarantee services that serve the common good, and only in this way will it be ensured that the full range of services is available to everyone, both on the supply and demand sides. it is not the european side's job to decide on the content, of course, but it is their job to ensure that commerce does not overwhelm culture. the failure to provide interoperability is not only culturally restrictive but also downright anti-internal market. the council's compromise is therefore by no means sufficient, and we assume that there is still movement going on here.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency in the euro area. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, dear colleague bushill-matthews! thank you for this excellent report. i should like to briefly refer to the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and i do not want to spend much time explaining that the smes are the economic backbone of our society in europe. the financing of smes is becoming increasingly difficult, and if we look at the agreements that will come about through basel ii, we can assume that this financing will become even more difficult. new financing methods, such as venture capital, public offerings or all the other things that are being tried or mentioned at the moment, are certainly a viable way for us in europe to think about, but it is certainly not one that can be used by all smes in the same way. i am therefore pleased that the commission is taking up this issue for europe. i would like to make a basic request to the commission, based on practical experience - i am in contact with many smes - that future support for smes should also be suitable for smes. many smes have no idea - or find it very difficult to find out - where support is available at european level. they say it has to be transparent. i also hear complaints very often about the complexity of funding at european level, that it is very difficult to meet the requirements for smes and that it is often very expensive. thirdly, all this should be predictable in time. very long application procedures over many years simply cause smes to run out of breath and not make it to the end. the commission should therefore do everything possible to ensure that in future smes receive support from the same source as the applicants for the target group, that is to say smes themselves. but at european level we can not only relieve the burden of smes or do them justice by offering them financing, but we should also think about how we can reduce the burden on smes by avoiding additional bureaucracy, additional regulations which are increasingly crushing them. i think it would be very appropriate to set up a screening in the directorate-general for enterprise, which would allow a veto to be cast in time to allow for the passage of regulations which are good for smes and to exclude bad ones.
- mr president, i have to go. the council, the commission and parliament have finally come to an agreement. the promotion of smes contributes to more investment and innovation, to the creation of new business philosophies. a multiannual programme has been launched to support an initiative for growth and employment. parliament approved a budget of 450 million euros. smes are the engine of jobs in europe. 70% of all employees are employed by them and over 80% of all apprentices are trained here. but to increase their market opportunities, they need to be further relieved, both financially and taxally. they need better access to venture capital. the european investment bank should use its resources not only for knowledge-based enterprises in the multimedia and biotechnology sectors, but also for high-technology enterprises in the environment and energy sectors and for innovative service providers in the craft, trade and tourism sectors. over eur 93 million in interest subsidies were paid instead of the eur 100 million planned. nevertheless, 54,000 new jobs were created instead of the expected 33,000. if that's not a success. the excellent report by mrs bushill-matthews has the full support of the epp group and my committee was unanimous in its support of this excellent report. i share his criticism that the report reached our committee on employment and social affairs far too late. apparently, there were too many departments involved. the european parliament can only assume responsibility and exercise its control function if the information is available in good time. future reports must focus on points which will allow effective analysis. what is the quality of innovative jobs? how is sustainability ensured? how many women are involved? finally, they are an essential element of the european employment strategy. despite these criticisms, the commission's report is encouraging. it shows that investing in this sector of the future is worthwhile, and that is in the interests of the workers.
commission. – mr president, we received with great interest the report by parliament's committee on employment and social affairs concerning the second annual report on growth and employment initiatives. i very much appreciate the spirit of cooperation with the rapporteur and the favourable comments made on the annual report. in particular, i know that the committee's report – and i quote: "welcomes generally the content and analysis within the thorough and more comprehensive 2000 report and commends the commission and the eif where progress has been made". i would like to address the main points raised by the committee on employment and social affairs in the report prepared by mr bushill-matthews and have grouped my comments under three headings: provision of information to parliament and its timing, geographical coverage and an updating of the instruments. firstly on the provision of information. all the completion of the formal commission procedures for the adoption of such a report may appear too long and, frankly, sometimes it is. the commission has helped the rapporteur by providing an advance copy of the report before publication. we intend to continue this practice of keeping the rapporteur informed prior to the completion of the formal commission procedure. we also explored to what extent we can share with the rapporteur the quarterly information received from the eif without the need for a formal commission procedure. it should be noted that this quarterly information is mainly used for operational purposes. it is to ensure appropriate monitoring of the programmes by the commission services and cannot be relied upon to provide the same degree of accuracy and detail expected by the annual report. secondly, on geographical coverage. the geographical distribution of the project signed under both the etf start-up and the sme guarantee programmes varies considerably. the difficulties of implementing etf start-up in all countries of the union stems from the different stage of development of the venture capital market in various countries, coupled with the requirement that etf start-up only invests pari passu with at least 50% of capital provided by the private sector. in those countries where little venture capital activity exists it is difficult, if not impossible, to meet the second condition. in the meantime the take-up of the facility has successfully continued with another foreign investment signed and three more being processed, all together corresponding to a geographical coverage of eleven countries. as you can see from our annual report the distribution for sme guarantee is most satisfactory. the initial high take-up in germany and france was attributable to the existence of well-developed national guarantee programmes in those two countries which were able to take advantage rapidly of this facility. thirdly, on the instruments. the three instruments of the growth and employment initiative have been integrated into the new multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship and in particular smes 2001-2005. a change in market conditions prompted the commission to suggest a refocusing of etf start-up further upstream: seed, early stage and incubators. similarly, it led the commission to propose diversification in the sme guarantee portfolios, for instance towards microloans in favour of the smallest enterprises and ict loans that allow small enterprises to take advantage of the potential of electronic commerce. finally, with regard to the simplification of joint european ventures, our legal and budget experts have come to the conclusion that the council decision on the multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship does not allow simplification in significant terms. to achieve this, a new council decision would be required and such a decision would also need a new budget appropriation. before submitting an appropriate proposal to the council on which parliament would be consulted, the commission services are working on a full assessment of a joint european venture. in the light of this assessment, the competent commission services may submit a proposal to reduce considerably the life of the joint european venture programme and so that the whole budget will not be used. but i and my services will keep you informed accordingly of any developments in this regard.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we have enforced the open declaration for feed. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the process of labelling, but that it should be involved in the process of identifying the products. i want to make it quite clear - and i think the honourable members will agree with me - that if we as the european parliament had not had the right to vote in this area, we would not have enforced it. i would therefore like to emphasize, in addition to the matters we are discussing, that we need co-decision on all agricultural policy issues, so that we can reach good and reasonable results, as in this case, and achieve reasonable results in the debate with the council, with the expertise and political foresight of parliament, in support of the commission - in support of a strong position of the commission, i want to make this clear. the open declaration has a long history. what we are now changing is a directive from 1979. the open declaration then existed - at least in germany - was abolished at european level. i have been working in this field ever since, trying to make up for what went wrong. it has taken a long time, 25 years, but you should not be too impatient in politics. we have certainly reached this result because of the bse crisis. it has made it clear that farmers need to know what they are feeding if they are to take responsibility for feeding their animals. we now know from this disaster that everything we feed to animals is in the food chain, and not directly, but indirectly, is fed to humans. it is therefore essential that farmers know what is in their feed. we then asked you, commissioner byrne, and also mr fischler, in the context of the procedures in parliament for the establishment of the commission, what your views were on the open declaration. you said at the time: "yes, we want the open declaration to come". it was then that she came, but it took another three or two and a half years for the templates to arrive. but good thing he wants to be alone. as i said, the council then withdrew what was a good proposal from the commission, which we had improved only in the positive list, and the commission accepted the council's proposal to propose and implement a half-open declaration. we have changed that in a good way with this result. now we have the open declaration. the 15% tolerance limit is a way of taking account of the industry in its offers and actual implementation, so that there can be no rejection of feed lots, but we have also made it clear that farmers can obtain the exact composition of the feed on request. we have also insisted that the commission should present us with a positive list, or at least a draft of a positive list, by the end of next year, so that we can achieve a positive result in this area during this parliamentary term. it is necessary to determine what is allowed to enter the feed. i would like to conclude by thanking all my colleagues, especially vice-president friedrich, who chaired the meeting, and also my colleague mr kindermann. we three together formed the negotiating delegation, and i must say that if we had not found such a great unity, agreement, almost a certain joy in the work, in order to show that we too are able to put our ideas into writing and into laws, then this would not have been possible. so thank you. i think it was a good job and interesting to be part of such a mediation. we have said that the mountain has crested and given birth to a mouse, because in the light of what was at issue in the case, this was a huge effort. but it was nice to get to see it for once. so to all those who took part, and to the other colleagues, a big thank you. we can show ourselves with this result in our countries and in front of our voters.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. there is a saying: what lasts long may eventually be good, and mr graefe zu baringdorf, the rapporteur, has clearly pointed out this endless story in this context. it is precisely in the area of codecision that it has finally become clear that parliament is constantly bringing good ideas into such work as this endless history of the declaration on compound feedingstuffs. we are talking about large quantities, as we must be aware, and therefore also about a lot of money. not for money from the european union, but for money from the market partners. the volume of feed involved is approximately 400 million tonnes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the conciliation procedure has finally, at third reading, and with the efforts of all concerned - and i would like to commend this very much - produced an acceptable result on the most important points. mr graefe zu baringdorf has pointed this out. as requested by parliament, there is an open declaration with quantity; the 15% is already, in my view, the upper limit of the margin, but a consensus has been reached. the manufacturer, as has been clearly stated, must - and i attach great importance to this 'must' - communicate the exact percentages at the request of the customer. thirdly, the positive list. there is talk of some 20,000 components, and it is a difficult but, i believe, interesting and important project to develop this positive list. the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. perhaps the evaluation report would then be appropriate to introduce further improvements, for example, a possible certification of the compound feed manufacturers. i would like to mention one more point. and that was the first positive list, seen throughout europe, the so-called purity rule for beer. i have already mentioned that the list drawn up in my home region in 1486 and then adopted for the whole of bavaria in 1516 was a good list of positive aspects for the production of beer, and you should be very ambitious in developing such a good list of positive aspects for mixed feedingstuffs. i would like to thank the rapporteur, the chairman of the conciliation committee, mr friedrich, mr graefe zu baringdorf and mr kindermann in particular for their tenacious and steadfast negotiations.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the fact that we have achieved a very good result in the conciliation committee is something most of us would agree on. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists for his commitment to this matter and, above all, for the good cooperation he has had with the other members. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. but there are other reports besides this proposal for a regulation which also deal with animal feed and which are currently being negotiated by parliament, the council and, above all, the commission. i am thinking here of the draft regulation on animal by-products not intended for human consumption, specifically category iii, but also of the future use of food scraps and waste from food production. i think it should be possible to continue to use these by-products, processed by safe methods with strict conditions and, above all, with effective control of the processing steps, as high-quality feed for pig and poultry production, unless scientific results show otherwise in the future. i hope that here in parliament, but also in the commission and the council, there will be as much willingness to compromise as there was in the procedure we are discussing here tonight.
- mr president, i have to go. i too believe that it was a good report and that the outcome of the conciliation committee opens the way to implementation. i am aware, however, that implementation may take some time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not contaminated by the pesticides used in the production of foodstuffs. it will therefore be necessary to talk in the foreseeable future about control programmes which will standardise the monitoring of feed composition and the uniform standards. i am grateful that the conciliation committee has given some basic data on this, which correspond to my own experience. i am concerned, however, about the distribution of costs, namely the cost of declarations and checks on their compliance. i am against the cost being passed on to farmers as it has been done in the past. i believe that in the implementation of the procedure the feed manufacturers, importers, traders and above all the controllers - and there will be many of them - should also ensure the distribution of their costs in accordance with the principle of transparency. i also believe that safety standards in the field of feed production should be set to ensure human and animal health and to ensure that no products are placed on the market which raise significant health and consumer protection concerns. this, of course, presupposes the principle that production, according to good technical practice, does not start anywhere and does not stop anywhere. i think that the distribution of this principle at each production site will have to be proved in the next few years, and i hope that after this report and after the good result achieved in the conciliation committee, there will not be any new scandal anywhere in the foreseeable future, either in wine, or in honey, or in the large number of feedingstuffs on the list to be expected, whether positive or negative, whether green or different colours, because it will certainly be very long.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. after two readings and the conciliation procedure, the report on the marketing of compound feedingstuffs now requires the open declaration and the commission must submit a proposal for a positive list of feed materials by the end of 2002. both these points were central concerns of the european parliament, which had initially been rejected by the council. the report by my colleague graefe on baringdorf is a model for successful legislation by the council and parliament. despite all the political differences between the parties, we were able to formulate in constructive cooperation points which were important to us from the european parliament's committee on agriculture. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the right step in the right direction. it is not only parliament that has been able to assert itself on its two core issues, but the council has also contributed positive elements. i think it is acceptable to allow a margin of tolerance of + 15% for all feed materials, especially since the manufacturer must give the exact percentages when the customer asks. it is also practical to have an evaluation report after three years and, if necessary, to adjust the tolerance margin in the light of scientific and technical developments. it would be desirable if we could continue to work together in such a constructive way in the future, in the framework of the co-decision procedure in the field of the cap. in conclusion, i would like to warn against one thing, despite all the successes: good european rules are useless without controls. the bse and dioxin crisis are not the result of a lack of european rules, but the result of criminal and dubious machinations which must be tackled in a different way.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not very common for the chairmen of political groups to say words of appreciation and praise. normally, when we praise someone and express appreciation, it's the president. we always have many reasons to express thanks and praise. but i would like to say a word of appreciation to the council today. i would like to thank you, mrs neyts-uyttebroeck, for coming here for the first time, as the president-in-office has just said. i criticized the council's absence last time. if the council is pursuing good policies, including in terms of working methods, then that deserves our recognition. you are belgian, you are the belgian presidency. i would like to thank you very warmly on behalf of the group of the european people's party and the european democrats, not only for your presence here today, but also for your commitment to the work of your presidency of the council. (applause from the centre) i now turn to the president of the commission. we in the epp/ed group have a high regard for the president of the commission, for the integrity of his personality, a high regard for his good will. but if we are to succeed together, then that success must be based on truthfulness and on sound working methods and working structures. mr president of the commission, you are of course aware that the political groups of the european parliament prepare their work in a political group week in brussels before the week of part-sessions here in strasbourg. there were many in our group who said in brussels last week, when we were preparing our work, that the 2002 work programme was on the agenda. where is the document with which we can prepare for the debate in strasbourg? there was a broad consensus that this debate should be abandoned. mr president of the commission, i say to you that we must not have a document for such an important debate. i ask you to ensure in the future, and this is not just your task as president, but that of the whole commission, including your staff, that the documents are presented in good time and that the european parliament is taken seriously so that we have sensible working methods in the mutual interest. (applause from the centre) we must have reasonable working methods if we are to succeed in this endeavour. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we want to succeed together because we are deeply convinced that the commission and parliament, as the committed representatives of the community method, must follow a common path. so if you have staff who do not take parliament as seriously as you do, you should consider in your own interest whether you are not going to reorganize the work structures in your area. we are not just shaking hands with you and the commission, we need sensible cooperation for the sake of common success. that is why relations between parliament and the commission must be in order. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a programme like today would have deserved the support of all the members of the commission, there are five members of the commission today, which is more than usual, but this work programme covers all areas of work in 2002. you yourself once said that you were something like the government of europe, something which we in our group very much like. but if you are the government of europe, then the whole government must be here with all its members. i would very much appreciate it if that were the case next time. mr president of the commission, when we are setting our agenda in the conference of group chairmen, we very often hear it said that the member of commission a, b or c can be here in strasbourg now and then. i would ask you very sincerely, since there are only four days in the month - monday, tuesday, wednesday and thursday - that all the members of the commission should take these days off. if parliament demands that the commissioners be here, they must come, and the excuse that you have other dates does not apply. parliament must take priority over all other commission scheduling. this does not mean that - because i see commissioner lamy here - when there are major world conferences with an international calendar like in doha, mr lamy and mr fischler must of course be there. we do not want to impose our views 100%, but at the heart of the matter parliament must have priority over other commission activities. now on to the substance: mr president, we are very much in favour of what you have said on this subject. we agree on this, and that is why we must also work together sensibly and well. we are now expecting, as you are, that next weekend in laeken the heads of state and government will give the convention a demanding mandate so that we can really have a good reform of the institutions of the european union. our recommendation is that we start this work soon, at the end of february or the beginning of march, and that this convention can then be concluded under the italian presidency at the end of 2003. we also agree with what you said about enlargement. up to 10 new countries could be involved in the first round. it is not the time to say which countries they are. we do not agree with the french foreign minister when he says that all the countries of central europe should be included, but only those that meet the conditions can be included and this decision can be taken in autumn 2002. the countries which do not meet them cannot yet expect to join the european union. it is not possible for countries like hungary to wait because other countries are not ready. those who meet the conditions must not be at a disadvantage because others are not yet ready, and we hope that we will then come to good decisions. we fully support what you have said on the mediterranean: we need a strong commitment in the barcelona process, which is becoming more and more urgent, and also a strong contribution to stability. you have spoken about the need for us to have stability, to make europe truly competitive, but it is not enough to simply declare: the european union is supposed to be the most competitive location in the world. we must also take the necessary structural measures, and this means in particular that we must strengthen europe as a place for investment. then there must be tax relief not only for large companies, but also for smes, so that they can invest, and when investments are made, this leads to job creation. in conclusion, madam president, we have an ambitious programme, we stand by the commission, and we ask the commission and the council to work together, because there must be no competition between our institutions, but this europe is the europe to which we all commit ourselves, and therefore the commission, the council and parliament must each assume their responsibilities: we are ready to do so, and if the other institutions do so, we stand by them. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i too would like to join in the thanks to the belgian presidency of the council and hope that we will all have a really successful summit in laeken. the commission's work programme is being discussed today and i would like to say that my group supports the joint resolution of various groups on this work programme. why would you do that? because there is an interinstitutional agreement between the two institutions, and i really do not think it is inappropriate for this house to simply expect the commission to honour its commitments to parliament. in your white paper on governance, mr prodi, there are many pages on how europe could be better governed. the only thing that is not done is the elementary task of presenting a legislative programme. i heard this morning that an e-mail with an attachment arrived last night. what i have known as text so far is a work programme, which, according to everything i have read, is really full of generalities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. but above all, the council and parliament must know in good time which laws are to be introduced and, above all, why. we need to know how they were created so that we can work together here. i should like to point out that the national parliaments, which play a part in the process in some way, have a number of difficulties with the whole procedure, and this problem, mr president of the commission, must be overcome. i would like to make a few comments on your communication to laeken. i think it contains some very interesting and worthwhile ideas. it is true that a strict limitation to the four priorities set out in nice would weaken the credibility of the convention, that is to say, the catalogue of questions must be extended to meet the expectations of citizens and to make the enlarged union sustainable. i must say, however, that even in this paper i have often wondered why the commission is so unenthusiastic about its vision, especially in the run-up to this important summit. what are the citizens to think when the commission speaks with no real ambition, as it says in the text, of wanting to defend a particular idea of europe? yeah, what's that? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i find it rather puzzling why, with a view to laeken, with a view to the historical dimension of the convening of the convention, it is not said clearly and unequivocally: yes, our common objective is the creation of a truly democratic europe, and, mr president of the commission, i expect the commission to fulfil its role as the motor of european integration with even greater vigor in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. on behalf of the south caucasus delegation, i would just like to inform you that a commission official in the diplomatic service has been assassinated in a treacherous manner in georgia. i wanted to ask the president to address president shevardnadze on behalf of parliament and ask him not only to do everything possible to clarify this murder, but also to ensure that the rule of law is applied to ensure that people working in georgia for georgia are also adequately protected, and that this necessary work can actually be done. i consider the incident very serious; we want to do everything we can to help the south caucasus, but the south caucasus itself must also make efforts to protect the people entrusted to it. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, it was agreed with the commission that before the final vote on the legislative resolution we should receive an opinion from the commission on the extent to which it is prepared to accept our amendments.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, there was a small mishap earlier. the commission has made a statement on the seed report which is in fact consistent with that report. it was about the positive list. it was in the commission's interest to say so. what we are now asking for in connection with the seeds report is in our interest. i suggest that - this is also in the commission's interest, mr fischler, but more in our interest, because it is about our being involved in the next report that is presented - i therefore suggest that the commission now makes the statement that actually fitted the other report. then we both heard and can vote on it.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission is not i should like to take this opportunity to make some fundamental remarks on the agencies. one important decision was to treat the agencies individually. i have read the amendments tabled by the committees very carefully. i would therefore like to send a signal to the committees. first of all, i would ask you to look carefully at the agencies to see whether they are working well or not, and to read the report by the court of auditors. the new agencies are also to be mentioned. i think the policy is to create more agencies. this seems to be the commission's strategy. this is generally not reprehensible. but when it comes to financing, it is reprehensible because the commission does not count its money. and if the commission or the agencies come and want new funds, this will blow up heading 3 in the future.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on agriculture and rural development. the commission is not i would like to thank carlos costa neves, terence wynn and the whole group of members who negotiated the conciliation. that's all there was. the commission's letter of amendment was very modest, so what can be said about it? i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. i would like to highlight one point which makes the dilemma in the agricultural budget very clear. we all know that we are all more or less tied up in compulsory expenditure. we are also tied up in the design of compulsory expenditure, that is to say, in the design of the common agricultural policy. where we can make a difference, in the second pillar, which is still a bean-bar that is not getting any thicker, where we have more demands than we can handle, we cannot transfer money from the compulsory expenditure. this self-involvement has to end sometime. i repeat, i do not only claim full budgetary rights for this parliament; i also claim the right to vote. i also call for full co-decision in the area of the common agricultural policy. if we don't get it, nothing will change about this dilemma. (applause from the centre)
adopted by the commission on 15 december. the commission is not the reform of the common fisheries policy as of 1 january 2003 will bring positive changes to this important economic sector. i'm sure you will. the committee therefore did not want to introduce any new budget lines at this stage, with the exception of the flexibility reserve for the moroccan disaster, which has affected the fisheries sector with great sensitivity and raised many questions. we would like to see some minor changes. a: food safety, especially in the field of genetic engineering. there is an urgent need for scientific support. b: to control fishing activities. we need strict controls and perhaps financial sanctions for the black sheep. c: the real involvement of the sector in the discussion and in the legislative action, following the bottom-up principle. the dialogue must be formalized. in conclusion, we thank the commissioners and in particular mr costa neves for the constructive and intelligent cooperation. the committee on fisheries felt that he was a good man. we want to preserve fisheries for our own sake and for the sake of future generations. then i got a second minute. i would like to touch on a second point. this is a matter of mr turchi and mr prodi's remarks this morning on galileo. i appeal to all of you not to block the path to progress. the motions for resolutions tabled by mr dover, our british colleague, on mr turchi's report on the tens for 1999, must be rejected. their reasoning is incorrect, since the companies had already expressed their positive opinion on their financial participation in a 'memorandum of understanding' at the beginning of 2001, without any political will being present at the beginning of 2001. i would like to ask you, mr dover, to think of the many jobs, as does our colleague mr prodi.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. today is a good day because we have succeeded together as a parliament in achieving as the advocate of the citizens for the border regions something which was initially denied to us by the commission. i should like to thank all those who have helped to make this important request, which was formulated by the heads of state and government in nice, a political reality. i would like to thank the belgian presidency for taking up this request from the people on the ground and for providing the necessary financial resources. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. in the fisheries policy you have shown that you are capable of doing this, and i hope that you will present similar programmes for the border regions at the same pace, so that the money can be tied up as quickly as possible and spent on the ground on sensible projects. secondly, i would point out that we must of course ensure that the political priorities and the budgetary procedure are in sync for the future. we have had the opportunity only this morning to learn about the commission's political priorities for 2002. i think that is unacceptable. the former commission, which also had to resign because of budgetary problems, was much more rapid and efficient than the new commission in setting priorities and discussing them with parliament. the commission always needs some tutoring, and we shall be happy to provide it. the best way of doing this is to put in reserve positions which the commission urgently needs. i hope that this will help to bring the political priorities and the budgetary procedure more into sync. i think it is unacceptable that on the day we are debating the budget at second reading we should be waiting for the political planning for next year. i should like to thank mr turchi for his report on the transeuropean networks. here again, i would ask the commission to ensure that when funding is provided from the eu budget for sub-sections of networks or parts of networks, it is also ensured that the network as a whole is also created. i can only give you an example from my home country, from my home country. the important transport project from berlin via the brenner base tunnel to verona is at issue. here the federal government has been happy to use funds for the extension from berlin to erfurt, but has deleted the erfurt-nuremberg plan from its list of priorities. either the money must be paid back, because one part is not enough, or pressure must be put on the next part to be built accordingly! i should like to conclude by saying something about the european parliament and our parliamentary budget. i think we should not make a christmas list of possible new buildings so close to christmas if we are to cope with the expansion in terms of space. i think that we need to seriously examine the real need for additional office space, for meeting space. christmas lists are nice, but the christ child doesn't do everything. we shouldn't fulfill everything either. i would like to thank everyone, the rapporteurs and in particular the belgian presidency of the council, for the good cooperation. thank you very much.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mrs schreyer, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i too would like to thank carlos, kathalijne, francesco, esko, joane, and terry. they're the ones who provided us with these templates for today, and i think they've done an excellent job. the result we get out of this is a very good one. i would also like to say something to the council representative, mr vande lanotte. you are the second president of the council, after mrs parly last year, and i shall remember you very positively. if this continues in the coming years, if it continues in this way, then we shall eventually have a really good, trusting cooperation between the council and parliament. commissioner, look after us. you must treat us better, otherwise we'll be much closer to you! i would also like to say something to the president of the council about laeken. i have already indicated that in laeken you will of course also be discussing the future structure of the european union, and not just the question of a constitution in the sense that we have structures in individual institutions. but we also need to talk about what a budget that is transparent in every way can look like. we cannot explain to the citizens that we have - as the commissioner said - 4.6 billion in various places under-utilized and we are here arguing for weeks and months to get 200 million, that when acute emergencies arise we actually have to shift the entire budget back and forth to meet them without pursuing our long-term strategic issues and basic orientations. we have had to make a lot of provision for afghanistan this year. it is also very important that these people see europe not only as an institution that comes to punish people, but also as an institution that comes to help build them up. we have provided aid for the fishing regions and also aid for the border regions. this was also very important because we were sending a signal to the outside world that we were taking the current changes seriously and were also restructuring. i'm allowed a little extra. it was always the case that we always heard from bavaria that we needed money for the border regions. these are the same bavarians who on other occasions have attacked the balancing of the national finances and who have spoken out in the structural documents of the cdu and csu in favour of no more granting structural aid at all. on such occasions they come forward and demand much more money. i have been a strong supporter of aid to the border regions and i will continue to do so. we all supported this together. but those who go out there with big press releases have to ask themselves if they are consistent in what they are doing. we also have some basic things to work on. the reform of the commission must be pushed forward because we want a modern administration. e-learning, one of the most promising areas in an emerging economic region like the european union, needs to be promoted, not only because we want to take advantage of our economic opportunities, but also because we want to prevent a division between people, between those who can afford to acquire computers at a very early age, and others who are excluded. we need to cooperate better with europol and eurojust in the fight against terrorism. it can't be that the criminals are driving a ferrari and the police are following in a fiat uno! i have mentioned these two car brands deliberately because they come from a particular country, and that country should think about what it is doing at the european level at the moment! but we must also agree in the field of foreign policy that we are dealing with important matters. the balkans must be taken into account. the mediterranean region must be further considered. but we also need to hear the silent cries of the world. that's why we did something this year to fight aids. but those silent screams are easy to overhear. we need to listen more closely. we must not wait until we are hit in the face by major explosions in the world before reacting, but this european union must be more sensitive than it has been so far in its cooperation with the regions of the world which need our help, in terms of food aid, to ensure their survival, but also in terms of aid, so that the structures in these countries can be improved and they can in future provide themselves with a structure which makes cooperation between europe and the rest of the world serious and good. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the 2002 budget is sound and balanced from the point of view of brussels, despite the criticisms of the european court of auditors, which i follow with great interest. the berlin decisions still offer scope, especially since the degree of absorption of the member states does not seem to be needed today. i expect that in the implementation of the 2002 budget, the structural funds for rural development will be used up, the overspending will be reduced to zero by 2006 if possible, by processing the eligible projects in the shortest possible time, and, as i am told again and again, that the necessary flexibility in the exchange of projects will also be guaranteed. at the same time, i expect the commission to reconsider whether the proposed reduction in the rates of aid for large-scale investment in the cohesion areas is necessary and appropriate.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a new revised european system of national and regional accounts, the esa 1995, was introduced by a council regulation of june 1996. this 1995 esa replaced the old esa 1979. its application became mandatory for all member states. it applies to all community acts to all but one. for budgetary and own resources purposes, the old system should remain in force for as long as the 1994 own resources decision was in force. at that time it was assumed that a new own resources decision would be adopted in 1999. we now know that it took until the end of september 2000 for the council to finally take a stand. but at the same time he tried to slow down the pace of the european parliament. the council has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs intended for human consumption, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january 1993, is a very important one. it's all tin! since 2000 all statistical offices have been using the 95 system, and the 1979 esa data are no longer available. the council has now formally admitted this in paragraph 2 of its common position. so we are merely legally imitating what is already the case if we now adopt the common position. we have therefore had all the time in the world and we wanted to take this opportunity to stress once again the importance of the revenue side for the establishment of the budget and the prospect of financing our european policies. the council has adopted in its common position only the first of our amendments, in which we state that the changeover from one system to another for the determination of vat own resources will have no effect on the level of own resources, either as regards the respective distribution between the member states or as regards the total volume of own resources. it has rejected our amendments nos 2 and 3, which sought to ensure that the budgetary authority is better informed annually about the state of own resources in the form of a commission working document and to discuss this with the council. the commission has thankfully agreed in a letter to us to provide such a working document annually, the first time in the first quarter of next year. no, the council won't talk to us. the interinstitutional agreement did not provide for a debate. so much for the transparency that is always preached! then there are those who say: the debate on own resources is not part of statistical legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the statistical legislation is not the most attractive vehicle, the best means of transport for our demands. we have no formal legal title, but we have a right, and that right is equal rights for both parts of the budgetary authority in all matters relating to the common budget. if democracy is the subject of discussion in laeken and at the next convention and subsequent intergovernmental conference, then the full democratic participation of parliament in the european budget must also be the subject of discussion, and not just talk but action. if the result is that parliament has full budgetary rights, 100% co-decision on expenditure and co-decision on all revenue, then that is fine. but if this is not achieved, the word democracy from the mouths of council members is not worth the cost of electricity for the microphones in which it was spoken! (applause from the centre)
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. the fight against fraud against the european union's finances is a high priority for the commission. the commission has the european parliament as its main ally. the commission has today unanimously approved the green paper on the criminal law protection of the community's financial interests and the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, which i have tabled. the commission has sent a strong political signal by adopting this green paper just before the laeken european council. we have already made some progress in the fight against fraud. this applies in particular to cooperation with the member states. olaf is doing a good job here. the commission has also done a lot in the area of prevention, for example in future all legislative proposals will be examined by olaf for their resistance to fraud. on the other hand, the criminal law dimension of european fraud prevention remains seriously deficient. we need a consistent european approach to law enforcement. the prosecution of crossborder fraud against the community budget still too often takes place at the frontiers of not just 15 but 17 different legal systems, and with enlargement the number will increase. there is no effective instrument to ensure that administrative investigations by olaf and also by national investigations lead to prosecution, rather than fail at the borders. the commission had therefore already proposed the creation of a european public prosecutor for the criminal protection of the communities' financial interests in september 2000 for the intergovernmental conference in nice. the european public prosecutor would be something entirely new in terms of quality. it would be a truly innovative step in the fight against fraud in criminal law. the heads of state or government did not, however, take up the commission's proposal at the time. but this is too important a subject to be left in the closet. i have therefore decided to draw up a green paper to clarify the proposal for a european public prosecutor and to show how this could work in practice. the time until the next reform of the treaties should therefore be used to the full to respond to the questions and the scepticism in the member states which have repeatedly asked for the concrete form of this system. the ec treaty itself is intended to regulate only the appointment of the european prosecutor, his dismissal, his tasks and the main features of the office. all other modalities, such as the status and functioning of the public prosecutor, are to be regulated by secondary law. the green paper is now addressing these questions. how and on whose initiative does the public prosecutor act? what are his powers? who controls the actions of the prosecutor? how does it work with national law enforcement authorities? what is the legal status and organisation of the fiscal prosecutor? the green paper discusses various options on these issues. the commission also expresses its preferences, which form a coherent system. what is the general approach proposed by the commission? what are the guidelines of the green paper? the commission's general approach is to regulate at european level only what is strictly necessary and to make use of national law and systems as far as possible. our proposals thus fully respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the fiscal prosecutor would bring significant added value to the fight against fraud in criminal law without upsetting national justice systems. what does that mean in detail? the proposal is original in that the european public prosecutor centrally directs and coordinates the investigation and prosecution at european level, but is itself decentralised and decisive for the concrete measures of the principle of mutual recognition. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. the eppo shall inform the european parliament and the council of the outcome of the investigation. the legal proceedings themselves, including the delivery of the judgment, are to be conducted in accordance with national law. the commission proposes a decentralised structure of the public prosecutor's office. the european public prosecutor should rely in the member states on so-called 'national delegated prosecutors' who have a european mandate. the european prosecutor should be able to use the wide range of national investigative tools in the field of procedure. the prosecutors should therefore seek the assistance of national or regional law enforcement authorities, such as the criminal police. the application of the principle of mutual recognition is intended to make such investigative measures automatically valid throughout the community. the same applies to the admission of evidence and the judicial review of the european prosecutor's actions. for example, a search requested in one member state and authorized by a national judge under national law, or a telephone surveillance, would be valid throughout the community. this approach respects national legal systems. at the same time, the principle of mutual recognition ensures that the common investigation area becomes a reality. the commission also considers that the national legal system is sufficient for judicial review of the european prosecutor's actions and that a european criminal court is not necessarily necessary. the commission also considers that there is no need to create an autonomous european criminal code for the criminal cases to be prosecuted by the european public prosecutor. we are proposing a minimum level of harmonisation, but one which goes beyond the level of the proposed directive on the protection of the community's financial interests and thus also beyond the criminal offences as regulated by the 1995 convention. we want to cover all crimes against the financial interests of the communities, including, for example, fraud in tenders or breach of official secrets to the detriment of the communities' interests. we also believe that there should be uniform rules on penalties and limitation periods. the european ombudsman has been consulted on the drafting of the green paper on the role of the european ombudsman. i think we have struck a good balance here, which may convince some sceptics. the concept of the european public prosecutor fits seamlessly into the perspective of a europe of law. i worked on the green paper in close cooperation with commissioner vitorino. here, too, olaf's services were in constant contact with the services of mr vitorino's directorate-general. the new breakthroughs we have finally made in the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the member states will create a favourable framework for the establishment of a european public prosecutor. i am referring to the european arrest warrant, which will hopefully be adopted at the laeken european council. i also call eurojust. eurojust is also not a competitor to the european public prosecutor's office, but rather both would complement each other well. i hope that the green paper will open a broad and unbiased discussion on the creation of a european financial prosecutor and its functioning with all the parties concerned, and in particular, of course, with practitioners, judges and prosecutors in the member states. i would like to ask the european parliament, as the driving force behind this idea, to take an active part in the discussion and to carry the debate through the member states. we need the widest possible feedback on our proposal. the aim is to be able to present a contribution to the convention at the end of 2002 or the beginning of 2003 in preparation for the next intergovernmental conference, after evaluating the results of the consultation. the aim is to ensure that the european public prosecutor is enshrined in the treaties at the next revision. we need to take a deep breath. but i am optimistic that together, with the support of the european parliament, this goal can be achieved. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am addressing myself to you in particular, commissioner schreyer. fourteen days ago you called me the protagonist of the european fiscal prosecutor. i regard this as a badge of honour and may perhaps take you up on it myself, because we have now of course achieved what we wanted to achieve in the early 1990s. that means a green paper and a subsequent amendment to the contract. i think, however, that the timetable needs to be tightened up a bit. because according to you, we won't have a prosecutor like that until 2006-2007. we are therefore on your side, but we want to speed up the process, and i would therefore ask you to use this time to achieve this objective, and, in all subsidiarity, please ensure that there is no carelessness, no slowness, no inefficiency! this is important if we're gonna make any real progress with this da. the citizens are demanding it from outside, and we are doing something for europe if we make it clear that we are protecting their money.
the commission. the commission had submitted a proposal for amending the treaty to the intergovernmental conference in nice. if it had been adopted, ratification would have provided the legal basis. the council has decided otherwise, namely not to take this proposal up for discussion in the first place. we must now wait for the next intergovernmental conference to amend the treaty so that the prosecutor can actually be created. but as i said, we will use this time now, of course, and not just wait, but we will use the time to find out the best possible model in consultation, then discuss the way it works, the organisation, the status, the question papers, the questions of the limitation periods, all the things that need to be clarified. i expect that we will have very intensive and very specific debates on the questions raised in the committee on budgetary control.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would also like to address the question of time in the sense of my predecessor. i do not think, madam commissioner, that in view of the two billion fraud and irregularities that have been uncovered, and in view of the challenges - also in financial terms - that eastern enlargement will present to you and to us, you can afford to wait until 2006. i mean, this is a real rush, and you don't have to wait. you know as well as we do, you know our report, you know the proposals that have been made, that you can very well start a first phase, the entry phase, without changing the egf. both this council of experts, which made proposals in 1999 for the reform of the commission, and the olaf monitoring committee in its last annual report have pointed out these two phases to you. given this much-needed pressure, i ask you, why are you still hesitating? why are you putting this off till 2006? why do you hesitate to join us immediately, as we called for in the last bösch report?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commission and the council on behalf of the epp group for the excellent preparation and negotiation of the wto ministerial conference in qatar. it was an extraordinary achievement, commissioner lamy, that you and your staff, starting from a very difficult situation just outside doha, managed to get the whole range of issues that the european union wanted to be included in the agenda of the round that began in 2002 at the end of the meeting, despite the usual attacks on the european union by india and the countries of the cairns group, which were largely unjustified. the essential elements of our previous resolution have been incorporated. i myself witnessed in accra two weeks later the pride with which the representatives of the ghanaian government pointed out that africa had played an independent role this time, and that this was also due to the good preparation by the european union and in particular by commissioner lamy. the developing countries, particularly africa - and this was also one of our main demands - are now fully involved in the negotiations for the future. the african negotiators can see a considerable result from the political declaration on trips. commissioner lamy, you raised this matter this morning. from the need for comprehensive technical assistance to the derogations until 2008 for the cotonou agreement, the demands of developing countries and africans have been largely met. the new round of negotiations will also include the main points of the european demands. i do not need to repeat the details. it is important that we in the european union can bring our ideas of a social and ecological market economy into the system of free and fair world trade and also slowly make them a reality. i also believe that we still have a lot to do to further democratize the wto. mr lamy, you also said that we should come to the creation of a parliamentary assembly. we in the european parliament should continue to take the lead and also ask the commission to continue to support us financially so that we can involve in particular the representatives of the african parliaments. i would like to return to a point raised in the debate this morning. one of our colleagues, mrs lucas, has pointed out that the results would be bad, that they would be unacceptable. i thought that now we would have a european justification of european interests. but she only referred to the fact that india and some ngos have been ...
i have to say, madam president, the self-appointed anti-globalizationists were in the headlines for only a short time. they said they had sent the wto into the desert. the isolation, after all, produced a doha compromise signed by all 142 members. what a contrast to seattle in 1999, when the contentious issues were overshadowed by the issues on the street. i was there when militant protesters shut down our conference and delivered the staged images in a professional manner. in doha, the 700 accredited ngos and the national delegations again engaged in highly controversial debates. but important results have been achieved. the commission will be working for three years on a new round of world trade negotiations to further liberalize the world economy. the eu won on agricultural issues. the end of subsidies is sought but is not a prerequisite for the forthcoming negotiation. the commission has not yet reached the stage where investment and environmental issues are already the subject of negotiations, which will be the case in two years at the earliest. everyone has to move, the us on hormone meat, on labelling genetically modified products and on opening up the textile market. the eu must also remove obstacles, especially in the field of agricultural protection, mr commissioner. we must find the balance between market opening and market regulation. on the one hand, import restrictions must be removed, and on the other hand, the import of cheap products of inferior quality must be prevented. first, they endanger consumers and second, they steal billions from companies by pirating and infringing patents. we are against total liberalization. social security, public services are on the test. but it is not the case that state monopolies should be abolished and private monopolies established. the change in the agenda is just as important. so we are calling for sustainable environmental protection, social standards and the punishment of human rights violations. (applause from the centre)
madam president, congratulations on your sitting in that chair today. i would like to thank the two commissioners who are here and the whole commission team. i would also like to express my gratitude to the council. i believe that only together have we succeeded in achieving real success here. this includes our colleague carlos westendorp, who led our delegation. he's not here tonight. but i think he deserves as much thanks as anyone else. i would like to make a few points. firstly, i think that many of our colleagues keep forgetting things, especially those colleagues of whom i always say that they are constantly practicing mantra politics, that they are always repeating the same thing over and over again. i think what they all forget is that it was a negotiating opening, and a negotiating strategy was established. we should think a little more about how we can work with the commission and the council in the future, because the actual negotiations are still in progress. the issues need to be clarified, and it is not certain that in many places where we have achieved so-called success, that success will actually last for years. i would like to ask the commissioners in particular how they envisage cooperation with the european parliament. i hope that this cooperation will be much more precise and detailed, that it will give a much clearer picture of the negotiations you will be conducting on the various subjects, and that it will also indicate where there are difficulties, where problems are arising, so that in many areas there will not only be concrete information but also the possibility of political support. i would like to make one more point. i think it will be much more important than in the past to link trade and foreign policy together. i would like to mention two regions in particular, the european union and the united states. i believe that the european union and the united states have an incredible responsibility in shaping the future of trade policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. the development and linking of the classic trade policy with the new issues will actually be the difficult task in the future. they have done an elegant job of bringing this to the fore in the wto negotiations in doha, especially commissioner lamy and commissioner fischler. but as i said at the beginning, the real work is just beginning. i think we need to put much more emphasis on getting a stronger foreign policy base with countries such as india, singapore or china, but also with many latin american countries, in order to gain a greater understanding of what we actually want to achieve in the field of our trade policy through a stronger foreign policy. in some countries and states there is still the feeling that we are actually engaged in indirect protectionism in the context of our trade policy. we should make sure that this feeling is not created or can be eliminated. the singapore ambassador once again drew my attention to the longstanding desire to conclude a free trade agreement with the eu. i believe that bilateral free trade agreements offer the opportunity to open such doors and also have the potential to achieve greater convergence in the multilateral arena through bilateral negotiations. commissioners, perhaps you could comment on this again.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are discussing today the european community action programme in the field of public health for 2001-06. since we are likely to be involved in mediation, i think the programme should not be implemented before spring 2002 and should be postponed accordingly. the european commission had earmarked eur 300 million for all the european union's health policy measures over five years. i find it provocative that the council of ministers has once again reduced this amount and wants to approve only 280 million. in view of the large scale of the objectives to be achieved by this programme, which is the continuation of the eight existing action programmes, and in view of the additional tasks deemed urgent, particularly in the field of information, and the still not entirely manageable challenges posed by international terrorism, as our colleague mr trakatellis has already mentioned, i can only fully support parliament's request for 380 million and consider this to be the minimum that the european community must provide. we should not be prepared to compromise here and we should make this clear to the council. the common position in the other areas, however, represents a major improvement in my view compared with the commission proposal and the texts adopted at the first reading by the european parliament. the vast majority of the amendments which have now been tabled again and which have been accepted by the committee on the environment, i do not necessarily think that they represent an improvement in all respects. i have my problems with that. i would like to thank mr trakatellis for his work and in particular for his efforts to achieve a broad consensus in parliament. i must say, however, that continuing training is certainly a good approach across borders, but i have great problems when training in the field of health, medicine, etc., is to be transferred to the european community. i believe that is the responsibility of the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i come from a large member state and i have just found that centralising the task is not necessarily an improvement, but that there is a real need to help individuals on the ground, and i believe that this is better left in the hands of the member states.
commission. – i am very grateful to the rapporteur, mr trakatellis, the members of parliament and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for their work on this important and ambitious programme. this programme is important because protecting and improving public health is at the very centre of our citizens' concerns and their expectations. the recent terrorist attacks have underlined the need to strengthen and extend the existing community preparedness and response mechanisms. many of the amendments tabled are in line with our broad view of public health and how we should address it at community level. we can accept 38 of the 60 amendments – 28 in full and a further 10 in part. i should like to concentrate on a few key areas where some clarification of the commission's position may be of help. first, the implementation of the programme. the success of the programme will depend on the availability of resources and expertise. the commission will do everything it can to ensure the necessary, effective coordination by establishing the appropriate structural arrangements. putting these in place requires, in our view, a step-by-step approach. firstly, the commission services are engaged in the process of restructuring in order better to reflect the main areas of the programme. secondly, in order to strengthen the commission's capacity to coordinate actions, we intend to outsource some administrative and technical assistance. for the longer term, we are looking at the possibilities to set up an executive agency. however, this will have to await the adoption of the commission's proposal for a regulation on such agencies which i hope will be adopted in the fairly near future. in the light of this, i can accept amendment no 8 which calls for the appropriate structural arrangements to ensure the effectiveness and cohesion of measures and actions in the programme and to promote cooperation between the member states. however, i am unable to accept amendments nos 6, 34 and 57 which impose a deadline on the commission to carry out this work, and propose the creation of a coordination centre. this constrains the exercise of the commission's executive powers under the treaty. having said that, i hope that parliament will accept the commission's firm commitment to proceed as rapidly as we can on the establishment of the structural arrangements to ensure effective coordination and monitoring. the second area on which i would like to focus is the programme's budget. the commission's proposal was for a total budget of eur 300 million over a period of six years. amendment no 36 increases this amount to eur 380 million. the council's common position proposes a budget of eur 280 million. the decision on this matter is for the council and the european parliament, as the budgetary authority. i would simply say that the commission is keeping to its original proposal which, in our view, provides a reasonable figure for the implementation of the programme. i cannot, therefore, accept amendment no 36. this amendment and the last part of amendment no 56 also set limits on how we spend the programme budget. such restrictions undermine the essential principle that the programme must be flexible and able to respond to new concerns and threats to health, as they arise. recent events have clearly demonstrated the need to retain such flexibility. therefore we cannot accept these amendments. before i leave the issue of the budget, there is one point i want to make. the council and parliament stressed the need to put in place new structural arrangements to ensure effective coordination. this was not included in the composition of the original proposal in the budget. in view of this, when we put forward our opinion on the amendments adopted, we intend also to present a revised financial sheet for that programme. this would incorporate an increase in the budget line for expenditure on resources, for technical assistance and support which will be required for the structural arrangements. i wish to turn now to the amendments concerning the scope and structure of the programme. amendments nos 7, 13, 25, 30, 44, 46, 50, 52 and part of amendment no 58 touch on a variety of subjects, such as giving support to regional and national centres of excellence in various fields. complementary therapeutic methods – developing guidelines for medicine and healthcare interventions as well as actions to improve diet and eating habits. these amendments cannot be accepted since they cover areas under the responsibility of member states. moreover, there are a number of amendments that require specific comments. amendments nos 41 and 59 seek to impose an obligation for the commission to report annually to parliament on the implementation of the programme. parliament will be informed on a regular basis of the development of the programme through both the comitology rules and the evaluation process foreseen in article 12 of the common position. therefore, we cannot accept these amendments. amendment no 42 cannot be accepted since it limits the scope of the health information system by linking it explicitly to the right of patients to receive certain information on their illnesses and treatment. i stress, however, that i favour the concept of the promotion of patient rights and i am following the policy on this, which is included in the health forum and – you will note – is specifically referred to in the legislation at recital 3. finally, there is a group of seven amendments that we cannot accept because they take away the flexibility necessary for the implementation of the programme or because they duplicate provisions of the common position. these are amendments nos 9, 10, 23, 27, 28, 35 and 43. on the other hand, there are a number of amendments proposing important new actions that will reinforce the broad objectives and aims of the programme. to name just a few, amendment no 48 and part of no 26 that cover activities to counter health threats, including terrorists acts. amendment no 47 which covers the development of a vaccination and immunisation strategy. as these amendments, as well as amendments nos 3, 11, 29, 31, 45 and 60 will serve to strengthen the programme and improve its effectiveness, they are all acceptable to the commission. i should add that applicant countries can join in and that is provided for. furthermore, i also want to mention the reference made to the extent to which it is necessary to acquire information on diseases and disabilities, as mr prodi mentioned. i can, of course, confirm that this particular programme can deal with these issues, particularly under the first strand of the programme dealing with information and data collection. let me, in conclusion, madam president, repeat my appreciation for all the constructive work that the rapporteur and the committee have put in on shaping the future of public health policy in the eu. for those points where difficulties remain, the commission is, of course, ready and willing to assist in finding solutions.
the commission has already done so. animal feed, animal nutrition there are a number of reports on this subject which have been presented in parliament on various occasions. we discussed yesterday the marketing of compound feedingstuffs and today we are again discussing undesirable substances in animal feedingstuffs at second reading. in its common position of 17 september 2001 mrs paulsen confirmed it the council shared the view of parliament that a comprehensive level of protection should be ensured, no mixing or dilution allowed and, in addition, member states should be empowered to set action values. i think the implementation will show how practical all the proposals are, and if there are problems, you have to be willing to change things again. we know that everything that is prescribed must be controlled, and it must not only be possible to control it, but it must actually be controlled. in fact, we're hoping to be able to close this document today. our concerns on the article 13 (2) questions have been raised and we are still hoping for a compromise, if mrs paulsen has now put that in question. the groups have agreed together. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the simple formula: "i don't want this, so i'm sending it back" is too short here. we are asking ourselves the question and we are also asking ourselves the responsibility: what happens to such feed? are they being destroyed, are they being diluted, or are they being brought to us or to other countries of the world by other means? in germany we have a saying: "what you don't want done to you, don't do to others". so we are in favour of the fact that what has been bought as food, and according to our policy is not allowed as such, must also be destroyed, and that on the spot. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is not used as a dumping ground. i think we would have no problem with that if the question of cost-sharing had been settled. so simply returning it is not enough, and it does not meet our responsibility as politicians. we still hope that the compromise which is now emerging, which we are now introducing in amendment no 4, will find a majority here and that we can also convince the council. this is the way in which complaints are recorded and documented. the authority of the exporting third country must give its explicit consent to the re-export. however, the next logical step for me would be for the exporting third country to also provide evidence of what happens subsequently to the withdrawn positions.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it seems to be the higher order of this parliament that we must do this in this place at this time of day. we want to ensure that motorcycles become as clean as cars have become thanks to our legislation. i think we can be proud of this history of reducing emissions from cars, trucks and buses, because in fact, despite greater traffic, we have been able to reduce emissions significantly. there's one last building block left a little bit open, and that's the two-wheelers. here again, there is a two-stage strategy to reduce emissions from new vehicles by 2003 and 2006 so that in 2006 a newly registered motorcycle is in fact as clean as a euro 3 car. we must take the final step and make the 2006 stage binding. once, to achieve this objective. secondly, it is also to give industry planning certainty, because of course new exhaust technologies, new engines are now being developed and because 2006 is not yet here. i can also understand the industry's interest in saying that we want planning certainty. we must make the 2006 level binding. i think it is also pointless to wait until there is a new test procedure which is perhaps compatible with the other world markets, japan and the united states, and which makes sense. but i don't see that on the horizon anytime soon, so i say let's go back to the best test method we've used on cars and try to do something more realistic than what we've done on motorcycles. i also believe that the test procedure we are now going to apply will not tend to produce results that are very different from the new worldwide test procedure under discussion. in this respect, we can also rely on the car test method. it is more important whether or not we want to discuss the procedure gradually. more importantly, it should be noted that motorcycles do not achieve completely different emissions outside the test cycle, i.e. motorcycles are tuned to the test cycle only, and electronic manipulation takes place. it is therefore right and important, and the council has agreed with us on this, that such electronic manipulation devices are expressly prohibited. secondly, in addition to the fixed level for 2006, we want to introduce tax incentives for the early entry into service of low emission vehicles and for retrofitting older vehicles, where technically possible and without discriminating against the owners of these older vehicles. another important point here, as with other types of vehicles such as cars, trucks and buses, is that it is not enough for vehicles to achieve great emission limits on the test bench, they must also comply with them throughout their lifetime. so there are requirements for durability, even for two-wheelers. if we vote tomorrow on the package we have put before you, i believe we will be well on our way to continuing the success story of reducing emissions from transport in europe in this sector as well.
mr president, from regensburg! i'm glad you'll give me a minute for nuremberg. mr santini's speech showed what is at stake here. if we are talking about an area of security, freedom and justice in europe, if we are talking about european internal policy, as the president of the council does, then even a comrade as pleasing to his master as mr santini will have to accept that we are also talking about italian internal policy. i am not an italian leftist, but a german leftist, and i tell you that i do not share the view of mr verwilghen or mr vitorino that progress was made yesterday in rome. we have achieved a major victory yesterday, first of all, because 14 european union countries have consistently and jointly ensured that the italian prime minister's attempt to use his office in his own interest to prevent prosecution, which could also be directed against him, was foiled and that private interests were prevented from paralysing the european arrest warrant. now, mr berlusconi, a former member of this house who, thanks to the president, has not been subjected to a procedure for the waiver of his immunity, said the following yesterday. i quote from what mr verwilghen, president-in-office of the council, said to me. the european arrest warrant has been compared to the euro, which is indeed true in terms of its dimension and political significance. what does mr berlusconi say about this? mr berlusconi says: 'other nations have mentioned 2004 as the date for the entry into force of the european arrest warrant, although it could be later.' a literal quote. if the constitution in italy is not changed, we cannot participate. like the uk not joining the euro. why am i talking about a stage win? i 'm telling you now . after all that we have just seen in the council, after the italian blockade policy in the interests of the prime minister, i am saying here that we are going to see the same prime minister now hold a referendum to prevent the european arrest warrant from being put into effect in italy. the probability is very high. that is why i do not believe that we have yet implemented the european arrest warrant. i think it will be necessary to insist with all our force in this house that the isolated position which italy has been in for the last few weeks be maintained by the 14 other european states, because anyone who has so far in this house dealt with mr berlusconi or mr dell'utri, as i have done, or as my colleague elena paciotti has done, is called by mr berlusconi's press - as i am - an old stalinist - i am not that old, i am not a stalinist - or as my colleague paciotti is called the head of a communist conspiracy against italy. when i see you, mr tajani, i also understand why the people of rome did not elect you as mayor. i can understand that very well, especially when i hear you. (applause from the centre) anyone who questions italian politics even in a critical way is being defamed in this house. i thank mr graham watson, who has presented a balanced and good report, despite the constant attempts at blockade and the constant obstructionist policy, particularly by forza italia, part of the epp group - and i hope not for long. (applause from the centre)
- your time is up, colleague. about the rules, mr tajani. what is the point of your remarks, mr president?
- mr tajani, you are right on the substance, but, i ask you, what can the president do about it? should i have the visitors evacuated from the grandstand ? should i have them tie their hands behind their backs ? the incident happened. i can't change that. you're right, but there's nothing i can do about it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. while mrs hazan's report seeks to make the eu's fortress methods a global export hit, the watson report expresses concern for the security of the heads of state and government at their meeting in the context of a real democracy. the first people to learn what security will mean in laeken were informed in a letter ahead of the forthcoming summit. the police in göttingen advised against participating in protest events and threatened with preventive beatings if this advice was not followed. it is unlikely that the murdered carlo giugliani received such a letter. nor the beaten and shot people in the diaz school or on the streets of gothenburg. they are subsequently declared terrorists by the framework programme for demonstrating against the eu and the g8 and for resisting police violence. i also wanted to say that the rulers are enforcing their right to security, which is defined in the framework of security, law and freedom, at the expense of the lack of freedom of the protesters, and that is why not only the protesters in laeken will not have much to laugh about.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very happy that i have one minute less speaking time, especially after the colleague who has just spoken, and that is the least i can offer, which is already one minute against berlusconi! after such a speech, i am glad that mr schulz got a minute from me and was able to speak longer. i would like to turn now to another subject. it is very, very important to me, because for 16 months we have had a problem at eu level that we have not been able to solve. we had dover, and it was terrible for us. now, in ireland, we have had to find 13 people in a lorry again, eight of them dead, and among the dead were two children. i would ask the council, mr minister, and the commission, mr vitorino, that we may have to review our homework in this area in particular, in order to be able to take urgent measures if we do not want to find more refugees dead.
- i have received, pursuant to rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure, two motions for resolutions. see minutes of the sitting. the debate is closed. the vote on the reports will take place at 11.30 a.m. the vote on the motions for resolutions will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 11.20 a.m. and resumed at 11.30 a.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am sorry to say that i have been personally called on here for the first time to make a comment on this, and i do not want to refer to what mrs angelilli said, but to what mr tajani has just said. mr tajani is right, the rules of procedure state that applause from the stands is not permitted. but perhaps we need to recall the situation. mr tajani made several calls during my speech. i've noticed that i can understand his behavior better now that i've seen him, or i can understand better why the citizens of rome didn't elect him as mayor. this was followed by a lively round of applause in the stands. "vox populi, vox dei" is the french word for "vox". even if the rules do not provide for that. (applause from the centre and the right)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just want to make two things clear. one is that when i was conducting the meeting, i registered applause, but i did not realize that it was coming from the gallery. secondly, when the honourable member called, i told him that he was right and, secondly, i pointed out that i could not do anything for the tribunes afterwards, but it was also made clear that applause was not allowed. and that is what the rules of procedure require.
- the commission. - we can look at it. can also be translated: can be and will be considered.
the rapporteur. i would like to ask the commission, mr president, before the vote, to answer a question. the commission's original proposal for a decision provided for the creation of a high level group on radio frequency policy to discuss radio frequency policy issues on an ongoing basis. the european parliament should be involved in these discussions. for legal and institutional reasons, it is not possible to record the establishment of this group in the frequency decision. but i ask the commission: does it adhere to its original intention and establish such a group by commission decision, i.e. on a voluntary basis? if so, will parliament be involved in the work of this group?
counsel. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of december, developments in the middle east have once again turned tragic, with the risk, growing with the passage of time, that the situation will become increasingly uncontrollable. the prospect of a serious political dialogue, which would be necessary for the sake of reason alone in the absence of any other credible option, is getting further and further away. the confidence and political will to get out of the crisis seem to be lacking among the various parties, leaving the field open to violence and extremism. more than ever, we must help the parties concerned to break out of this logic. the recent active re-engagement of the united states in the middle east, however, indicated that progress was being made towards the resumption of dialogue. the most recent dramatic events have unfortunately made the task particularly difficult. the united states, the european union and the other actors most directly concerned have no choice but to reiterate the firm intention of the international community not to allow extremism or terrorism to undermine diplomatic efforts. the european union cannot resign itself to the extreme gravity of the situation in the middle east. the israeli and palestinian peoples both have the right to live in peace and security. the fifteen must therefore continue their efforts for reconciliation.
commission. – madam president, over the last couple of years i have had the opportunity – perhaps i should say that alas i have had the opportunity – of making all too many statements to this parliament on the situation in the middle east. it is with regret that i note a dramatic deterioration of the situation in the region despite the tremendous efforts of the international community, in particular the united nations, the united states, the russian federation and the european union. i am dismayed by the fact that more than 1 000 people, palestinians, israelis – among them, as we heard this morning, many women and children – have died since september last year. i am also dismayed at the fact that we have seen the withering away of the aspirations and the hopes that israelis and palestinians have pursued since the peace process began ten years ago. we need to focus our efforts on how to prevent the death of the peace process itself. much of what has been achieved with the help of the international community is now at risk. we want to see two states living side by side, peaceful and prosperous. today, that prospect seems all too distant. the number of deaths keeps increasing and so, less importantly, does the record in physical and economic damage. the world bank has estimated that the palestinian economy has suffered losses of between usd 155 million and 165 million in physical damage and usd 2.4 billion of gross national income since september last year. the number of palestinians living below the poverty line on less that usd 2 per day will have risen from 600 000 to between 1.2 million and 1.5 million by the end of 2001. even worse, the world bank projects more than 50% of the population may fall below the poverty line by the end of this year. the economic decline and the non-transfer of taxes owed to the palestinian authority by israel have caused a fall in palestinian revenues from a monthly average of usd 91 million to usd 22 million. palestinians lost more than 100 000 jobs in israel and about 66 000 jobs in the west bank and the gaza strip as a result of israel's closure policy. but the israeli economy is also suffering, which is not surprising when one considers the extent of economic interchange that was taking place before the current intifada. according to recent forecasts, the year 2001 is going to be one of the worst years since the 1950s for the israeli economy. this is mainly caused by the global economic slowdown but also by the current political security crisis. preliminary figures indicate that one in five israelis live below the poverty line, absolute numbers are up by 10% compared to last year and the rate of unemployment stood at 9.3% in the third quarter. what is the european union's stance, given this dramatic undermining of political and economic stability in the middle east? we understand israel's longing for security. we respect the fact that it is the israeli government's duty to try to provide safety for its citizens and we also understand palestinian frustration over the continuous military occupation and the remorseless spread of settlements. on monday, as the minister has just pointed out, the general affairs council discussed these issues with shimon peres and nabil sha'ath. as ever, they were extremely eloquent in what they said. the council's declaration reaffirms israel's irrevocable right to live in peace and security within internationally recognised borders and the need for the establishment of a viable and democratic palestinian state and an end to the occupation of the palestinian territories. the way chosen by people like the late prime minister rabin was to find a negotiated solution leading to two states with the 1967 line roughly as their shared border, jerusalem as capital of both, and a solution to the refugee issue acceptable to both israelis and palestinians. unfortunately forces on both the palestinian and israeli sides have been working against this goal. they have set out quite deliberately to destroy the achievements of the oslo process. it is our collective duty to try to stop them doing so. the only way of returning to meaningful negotiations is to embark once and for all on the path laid out in the mitchell report. the council on monday strongly encouraged the parties to take the first steps to end this devastating and self-fuelling cycle of violence that we have seen over the last 14 months. i confirm our strong call for the parties to implement the mitchell report without delay. it is crucial to apprehend extremists and continue fighting those terrorist groups opposed to the peace process, as the minister said. the union must continue to press the palestinian authority to take concrete steps to arrest and bring to justice those who commit terrorist acts. this is why the council on monday called clearly for the dismantling of the terrorist networks of hamas and jihad. and it is equally crucial that israel withdraws its military forces, ends the extra-judicial killings, and ends the closures and restrictions on palestinian people, particularly the senseless bombing of property and infrastructure. it is difficult to see how the destruction of the gaza airport, the destruction of an eu-funded forensic laboratory and the destruction of vast areas of arable land can help fight terrorism or increase israel’s security. i would strongly argue the opposite. in the world bank report, they state 'that the main proximate cause of the recession is closure'. removing, or significantly easing closure is the most important requirement if further decline is to be arrested and economic pressure removed from the palestinian population. continued economic hardship will make people easier prey for extremists. we need to persuade israel that its security will be increased, not hampered, by allowing the palestinian economy to develop so as to give people a reason to hope for a better future. where in history is there an example of poverty and economic decline leading to greater security and political moderation? let me add to this an argument put by henry siegman – a senior fellow at the council on foreign relations in new york and a distinguished expert on the middle east – in the article in the international herald tribune today, which i strongly recommend to all members of this house. mr siegman wrote as follows: 'policies which reinforce the despair of palestinians by killing their hope for an end to the occupation will inevitably fuel escalating violence'. we must not allow ten years of political and financial investment to be wasted. the european union has contributed more than eur 3 billion to the west bank and gaza strip since 1994. some may say unfairly that the european union is only a payer and not a player. i have heard that remark in this chamber. but what we have done is to provide some grounds for hope – and in recent months to prevent further economic misery and to keep the palestinian authority barely alive and in place by providing eur 108 million in budgetary aid over the last 14 months. some people have criticised us for that, although members of the israeli government have explicitly supported these efforts in the past. we have worked to maintain the only viable partner in peace that israel can find and we should continue to support the palestinian authority, especially in its fight against terrorism. although the palestinian authority has made mistakes and must correct them, the palestinian authority is the only structure that can provide stability in the palestinian territories. it is the provider of necessary basic services and in the end the guarantor for a minimum of security for both the palestinians and the israelis. if the palestinian authority is disabled, we will face a situation of anarchy where hamas and jihad will no doubt gather increasing support and local extremist committees will compete in an escalation of violence. it is utterly absurd to suggest that by doing this we are funding terrorists. our funding actually helps to strengthen the secular administration against the real terrorist organisations. we have put a considerable number of safeguards in place that allow us to monitor the use of our funds. the most important of these is the regular checking and reporting by the international monetary fund on the austerity budget agreed by the palestinian authority. i want to make this point very strongly. the european union has done more than anyone else to promote elections, the fight against corruption, and the rule of law in the palestinian territories. there is much further to go. but how do we best promote decency, moderation and pluralism? by allowing public services in the palestinian territories to collapse or by trying to keep them going against the odds and by trying to promote reform? the alternative to the palestinian authority is palestinian anarchy. however long and difficult the road, we should remain committed to supporting moderates, whoever they are and while – thank god – they still exist, on both sides of this tragic feud. some commentators have referred to the problems in the middle east as one of the root causes of terrorism – or they have pointed out that the palestinian-israeli conflict has been and is abused as a cheap excuse for violence or as a wicked justification for committing evil criminal acts. the international community needs to take action now to help resolve this potentially explosive situation. the risk of wider regional spillover is very real and we must use every means to prevent a return to the time when the palestinian cause was pursued largely through terrorism. one final point. today the focus is mainly on afghanistan. but increasingly it will shift to the middle east. if we are to solve the problems there, it is no good dwelling in the past, exchanging half-truths, casting blame, arguing about what mr arafat should have done at camp david or what mr sharon should not have done on the holy mount. what is past is past. peace will only come if there is a real and brave and lasting commitment to achieving it, looking ahead to a brighter future, ignoring those who try to derail the whole process through terrorist acts of violence and by disproportionate military responses. that is the way progress was made in the past, for example by mr rabin. it must be the path that we europeans advocate for the future. (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i must say that both the speeches and this week's council decision show how seriously we must take this problem and that in the remarks made here and in this resolution the european union has given a very clear signal as to what we should support. we, as the european parliament, would like to contribute by our recommendation to the european union's ability to act as a mediator in the region, to develop a way of reaching a peaceful solution here. i am sure that we will be able to produce a balanced text in the context of the decision, that is to say, of the procedure tomorrow, if i may be so careful as to say so. i do not need to go into the analysis of the situation here, and i would like to endorse what chris patten has said, namely that there is no point in raising individual questions of blame in current affairs. we know that since arafat did not jump in camp david and sharon was on the temple mount, the situation has gotten worse, and that even 9/11 did not help to get inside now, but things have gotten worse after 9/11 and that it is about breaking this cycle of violence. at some point, it no longer makes sense to ask who is guilty or innocent, because in the cycle of violence, there is no beginning and no end. we europeans have a great interest not only in the establishment of genuine peace in the region, but also in our own interest in it, because without a solution to the middle east conflict the whole mediterranean question and the question of terrorism cannot be solved. i'm not saying that the middle east conflict is the cause of it, but it serves as an alibi for a lot of things that are of great concern to us. for these reasons, we have a genuine interest in seeing this problem resolved in our neighbourhood, and we want, as chris patten rightly said, to play an active political role in this region together with the united states, after having provided this level of financial assistance so far. so we see that we have two initial conditions here. one thing is absolutely clear: the citizens of israel must live within secure and recognized borders. that is a condition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second point is that the people, the palestinians, must also have a future, in a state of their own, in which they can shape their own future. this means that we must try to eliminate the negative things step by step on this basis. occupation and settlements are not conducive to the development of the palestinian people. the palestinian terrorism does not lead to a feeling of security in israel, to a withdrawal. i think that for this reason, as we are now seeing, arafat is clearly capable of taking action against hamas and jihad. that is why it would have been sensible to have done this earlier. but if it is done now, then it should be good, and it should be opposed with all our might, and this should be regarded as an essential condition, as of course also that israel does not blow up the infrastructure in palestine, which makes it difficult to develop it subsequently. but it must also be clear to us that the return of refugees cannot be used as a means of endangering the existence of the state of israel. the arab states must also see that holding on to their positions in camps is not the right way to go. the whole arab world must contribute, including our financial support, to the fact that young people are coming out of the camps and have a corresponding development opportunity. the council and the commission are aware that this european parliament is prepared to contribute to important solutions, including in the financial field, if this helps to achieve peaceful development. we believe that our position on the guarantee of human rights must be seen in the context of both the palestinian authority and the state of israel. we have seen three sakharov prize winners today. there was a muslim, a jew, and a christian, representatives of the three monotheistic religions. i think that the basic approach is to be found here. these three religions, which have shaped this world in such a magnificent way over the past millennia, must find the inner strength to come to a peaceful solution in the center from which these religions came, so that the people of these three religions can live together in the common holy city of jerusalem. i believe that we must deal with this by our action. i think this is one of, if not the central, task of these days. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. we have made a calculation of the damage suffered by our projects so far. in total, nine projects have suffered damage in one way or another. the first conservative estimate of the damage is eur 2,289 million, including, for example, eur 60 000 lost as a result of the bombing of the forensic laboratory we have provided. the israeli government has also given some support to help the palestinian security forces. these figures are very conservative estimates. the damage is immense when you look at the investments that have gone from europe to the west bank and gaza in recent years to try to establish decent services and help create a potentially viable state. that is the summary we have received so far from the register accountant and i hope that the picture does not get worse. let me make one or two further comments on the debate. the honourable member, mr poos, who always weighs his words carefully - he is very familiar with this subject - has described the situation as catastrophic, and that is no exaggeration. my esteemed and courageous friend, general morillon, pointed out to us the consequences of an intransigent attitude in the balkans. mr lagendijk and mrs morgantini referred to the emotional speeches this morning about the sacrifices that the next generation must make because the present generation cannot find a solution to live together in peace. but i think there is still hope for the region if people can show extraordinary resilience, courage and moderation. my friend mr brok, chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, said that the aim should be to allow the three great religions represented here this morning to live side by side in peace in the holy city. that would be, in the words of an english poet, a wishful dream that we would sincerely like to see fulfilled. i would also like to say something to mr belder. i'll do that very carefully and not critically, because people have a right to their own emotions. what i'm saying is i'm not sure i share his view on that balance. i'll tell you what i think about that balance. last monday, a number of palestinian and israeli parliamentarians and intellectuals met at the qalandia checkpoint to stress the urgent need to continue the dialogue between the two sides, even if such a meeting can only be held at that location. they take the view that these meetings are particularly important in view of the escalation of violence in the past week, which threatens to involve the whole region in the war. if the current spiral of violence is not immediately broken, the situation could spiral out of control, with all the possible irreversible consequences. a group including yossi beilin, former minister of justice and one of the architects of the oslo process, and yasser abed rabbo, minister of information and culture in palestine, believes that the end of the current crisis is only possible if, with immediate effect, violence is no longer used as a political instrument and the unconditional implementation of the tenet work plan and the mitchell report is started. that requires immediate measures, such as the prevention and prosecution of terrorist acts, the lifting of the blockade, the withdrawal from the palestinian territories and the end of a policy aimed at killing people. they consider that settlement activities are incompatible with a sincere desire for de-escalation and peace. the settlement policy must be brought to an end. the promotion of such policies in any form, whether official or unofficial, cannot go hand in hand with the re-establishment of a climate of non-violence based on mutual trust. it has to end. in order to find a solution to this crisis, the palestinian authority or its presidency - and i say this with emphasis - must under no circumstances be harmed or targeted. i will tell you what i think the european union should do. as long as there are moderate forces on both sides - in israel and in the palestinian authority - we must support them in this; their courage, tolerance and decency deserve our support. the european union is pursuing a balanced policy. i would like to say, in a proper biblical way, 'hosanna' to all the views expressed in that joint statement. i pray to god that in three, six or nine months' time there will still be moderate forces with the courage and the courage to offer the region a better future. (applause from the left)
commission. – mr president, i will first of all respond to the characteristically direct question from mrs van der laan. we have done a calculation of the damage so far to our projects. there are nine projects in all which have been damaged in one way or another. the very approximate loss estimation is eur 2.289 million with, for example, eur 60 000 also lost with the bombing of the forensic laboratory which we had provided. there was also some support from the israeli government to try to help the palestinian security forces. those figures are extremely approximate. if you think of the investment that has gone from europe to the west bank and gaza over the years to try to establish decent services, to try to help in the creation of a potential viable state, the loss is incalculable. that is the chartered accountant's balance sheet so far and i hope it does not get any worse. perhaps i can just add one or two points in relation to the debate. the honourable member, mr poos, who does not use words lightly – he knows about these matters very well – described the situation as catastrophic and that is not too strong a word. my honourable and gallant friend general morillon reminded us of the consequences in the balkans of intransigence. mr lagendijk and mrs morgantini and others spoke about the moving speeches that we had heard this morning about the sacrifice of the next generation because the present generation cannot find a way of living peacefully together. i suppose that when people can behave with that extraordinary resilience and courage and moderation, there is still some hope for the region. my friend, the chairman of the foreign affairs committee, mr brok, has said that the aim was that the three great religions that we saw represented here this morning should be able to live one day in the holy city in peace together which, in the words of an english poet, is "a consummation devoutly to be wished". i would just say one thing to mr belder – and i say it very gently and not critically because people are entitled to their own passions – and that is that i am not sure i share his view of balance. i will tell you what my idea of balance is. on monday of this week a number of palestinian and israeli parliamentarians and intellectuals met at the qalandia checkpoint to emphasise "the urgent need to continue dialogue between the two sides", even when this is the only venue where it is possible to do so. they argued that these meetings are especially important in the light of the escalation of violence through the past week which they said is threatening to drag their whole region into war. if an immediate halt to the current cycle of violence is not achieved, the situation may spiral out of control, perhaps with irreversible consequences. a group, including yossi beilin, the former minister for justice and one of the architects of the oslo process, and yasser abed rabbo, the minister of information and culture in palestine, argued that ending the current crisis entails the immediate abandonment of violence as a political tool and the unconditional implementation of the tenet work plan and mitchell report. this requires immediate steps, including prevention and punishment of terrorist acts, the lifting of the closure on and withdrawal from the palestinian areas and putting a stop to the policy of assassinations. settlement activity – they argued – is not compatible with an honest move to de-escalation and the pursuit of peace. it must be halted. incitement in all its forms, both official and unofficial, cannot coexist with rebuilding a climate of trust and non-violence. it must be ended. we clearly state that under no circumstances should the palestinian authority or its presidency be harmed or targeted if a way out of this crisis is to be found. i will tell you what i believe the european union should be doing. as long as there are any moderates on the two sides – in israel and the palestinian authority – we should be there supporting them, supporting their courage, toleration and decency. that is a balanced european union policy. i would say "hosanna", in suitably biblical form, to all the sentiments expressed in that joint statement. i pray to god that in three, six or nine months' time there are still some moderates left with the bravery and courage to offer a better prospect for the future of the region. (applause)
- thank you very much, commissioner, for this moving appeal in this difficult situation. the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
- dear mr. mayor, this was certainly a bit outside the rules, but it says in the bible that out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. i understand your point and your intervention.
- the agenda calls for statements by the council and the commission on the implementation by the council and the commission of the regulation on access to documents. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
- yes, that's a suggestion we'll follow.
council. - the council was able to draw the attention of the honourable member, in its reply to oral question h-0689 at its october part-session, to the fact that the return of displaced persons was part of the set of conditions imposed by the european union in the framework of the stabilisation and association process, conditions to which the countries of the region subscribed at the zagreb summit. the council, in its review report on progress made by the countries of the region towards european integration in respect of these conditions, approved on 11 june 2001, considered that the process of returning refugees and displaced persons throughout the territory of bosnia and herzegovina should be accelerated and that measures aimed at achieving conditions for return under good conditions in accordance with the dayton-paris agreement should be strengthened. the responsibility for taking the necessary measures lies primarily with local and national authorities. the european union will be following this issue closely in the context of the process review mechanism when it comes to verifying the adequacy of progress in terms of compliance with the conditions and the level of relations established and the level of technical and economic assistance. the 1995 dayton-paris peace agreement, which ended the war in bosnia and herzegovina, created the post of high representative, which was responsible, among other things, for monitoring the implementation of the agreement. the current post holder, mr wolfgang petric, has in the past not hesitated to dismiss local officials when it became apparent that they were opposed to the implementation of the peace agreement, including its annex vii on the return of refugees and displaced persons. it did so in accordance with the powers granted to it by the bonn ministerial conference of the peace implementation council in december 1997. the council has on many occasions strongly supported mr petric's efforts to fulfil his mandate. as regards the european union's material contribution to return and resettlement, this question is addressed in the first instance to the commission, which is the manager of community assistance. the council understands, however, that since 1998, in accordance with the recommendations of the office of the high representative and the working group on return and reconstruction, increasing amounts have been allocated to support the return of minorities to republika srpska. the sector should also continue to occupy the important place it deserves in the framework of community assistance provided under the cards programme 2000-2006, which explicitly mentions aid for the return of refugees and displaced persons in article 2. i can assure you, after almost six months of presidency, that the council and its various members attach great importance to the question of the return and reintegration of refugees in bosnia-herzegovina, but also in other places in the balkans where, unfortunately, this question arises. it seems that, little by little, the situation is becoming clearer and that the number of returns and resettlements is increasing, perhaps not everywhere in the same proportions, but nevertheless the trend is everywhere upwards. we continue to attach importance to it and we put it on the agenda of all meetings where it can be discussed.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i thank you very much for this detailed reply and also for your intensive work on this matter. i would just like to ask two specific questions. firstly, is it possible for the council to try to establish an exact number of displaced persons and refugees who have so far returned to the republika srpska? there were agreements here, and the only way to verify these agreements is to know exactly how many people have returned. i would ask you to inform me in writing if you cannot do so today. secondly, the second aspect concerns the practical help to be given to minorities. i have heard that in the banja luka area in particular the catholic church is very active in multicultural health care and many social and agricultural activities and that the funds promised here have simply not been approved. that is the second question i would like to ask, and i would like to know if you know anything about it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. conflict prevention cannot simply consist of rapid intervention mechanisms and police forces; conflict prevention means, as our group has already said, that all eu policies should be geared to reducing and preventing conflicts. that means abolishing agricultural export subsidies, that means opening up eu markets for sensitive products, that means a socially fair trade policy and that means, above all, trade preference only where respect for human rights is guaranteed. we have no doubt that the gothenburg decision is a milestone in european foreign policy. however, the point now is not just to talk about the need for conflict prevention, but to do something about it. this means that a culture of prevention must be created in the european union, which should shape all political action. the key is to stop all arms exports and small arms deliveries to potential conflict zones. the promotion of human rights and sustainable development must be the central objective of european foreign policy. but conflict prevention can only be successful if it involves civilian actors. that is why we propose to set up a platform for ngos and to cooperate with them, which means financial support for ngos, but this is much cheaper than military conflicts.
the commission has already taken a number of measures. the commission is not i think we'll get the last speakers before the break. on 7 february this year, the commission published a communication on eu-iran relations. it notes that, since 1995, the dialogue has taken the form of a comprehensive dialogue, with semiannual consultations between the troika and the iranian government taking place since 1998. it covers global issues such as terrorism, human rights, nuclear proliferation as well as regional issues and cooperation in the areas of drugs, refugees, energy, trade and investment. the eu is iran's largest trading partner, accounting for around 40% of iranian imports, but the lack of a contractual framework is hampering bilateral relations. the commission recommends developing closer relations in line with progress in the following areas: rule of law, minority rights, freedom of the press, regulatory framework for the economy and iran's engagement in foreign relations and security issues. since the release of the communiqué, president khatami has been confirmed in office by a three-quarters majority, and the terrorist attacks in the us have drawn the world's attention to iran's immediate neighbourhood. iran has unequivocally condemned this terror. on 20 november the council received the commission's draft council decision on negotiating guidelines for a trade and cooperation agreement with iran. in my report i have tried in particular to shed light on the internal political, economic and social developments in iran and to draw political conclusions from them for our attitude towards iran. i wanted to identify our interests as an eu, which lie in strengthening trade, given the country's wealth of raw materials, but also in political dialogue on issues of combating terrorism and drug trafficking, and the respective contributions and possibilities for resolving the middle east conflict. i would also like to make it clear that parliament takes the commission and the council seriously when they use progress on the rule of law, minority rights and freedom of the press as a measure of the extent of the intensification of relations. we welcome the proposed trade and cooperation agreement in principle and do not link its conclusion to a certain degree of rule of law and respect for human rights to be achieved in advance. i would like to point out two reasons why this seems to be unnecessary. firstly, we expect the agreement to include a human rights clause similar to the cotonou agreement, which will enable us to effectively enforce compliance with the international conventions signed by iran in this area. the wording in the preamble to the draft mandate and the general reference in the final provisions to the possibility of suspension in the event of serious breaches of essential elements of the treaty do not seem to me to be sufficient. secondly, i am convinced that iranian civil society is capable of implementing on its own the reforms that are appropriate to a developing modern islamic society. the intellectual potential is particularly evident in the student population, the press and the cultural life. all in all, this country with its culture, its natural resources combined with human resources basically has every chance of setting itself up for a better future. but the fact that certain sections of the judiciary and the clergy find it necessary to repeatedly ban newspapers, which then often re-establish themselves under different names, also shows something of the dualism and the contradictions and ultimately the unresolved question of power that dominates this society in almost all areas. the most recent example is the disappearance of journalist and film critic siamak pourzand, which was brought to the attention of the pen club on december 5. the increase in the number of executions - we have seen shocking pictures in the press - the repeated reports of stoning as a method of execution, and the large number of public floggings this year, indicate that civil society must be restrained with increasing effort. the recent reports of the united nations, including the statement of the special representative of the commission on human rights, mr copithorne, of 12 november, have also become much more critical in their assessment and wording compared to previous years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are the forces in parliament who are fighting for more freedom of the press and for more women's rights, for the economic sector, who want to break up the crusted structures and who want to promote a constructive role for iran in the middle east peace process. we want to encourage these forces through parliamentary dialogue so that they can better live up to their electoral mandate and the hopes and expectations of society. the contradiction mentioned runs through other areas. as regards the afghanistan conference in bonn, i hear that iran, although not directly at the table, has played a very constructive role in the background. i think that should be mentioned in a positive light. on the other hand, it could have a more moderating influence on certain groups in the middle east, which are more likely to seek confrontation there. the european parliament cannot accept a discount on human rights for participation in the anti-terrorist coalition. i expect the council and the commission to adopt a similar attitude. women have won some positions in parliament, government, administration and culture. more than perhaps any other state in the neighborhood. on the other hand, they are not just forced to dress according to the rules of male interpreters of the koran. and they are underrepresented in many areas of society. they are also expressly excluded from certain areas of law, such as family law. we must and will address all of these issues, as we also acknowledge when there is progress. i should like to thank all the members who have improved this report by their amendments. i wanted to say nothing that was factual, but i also wanted to avoid making the dialogue unnecessarily difficult by using words. in the economic field, it is important to make clear to iranians that fundamental reforms are needed, such as external wto compliance and opening up to foreign investors and their products; the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. there is a very broad agenda for this dialogue. we as a parliament also want to establish contact with our colleagues in the iranian parliament. i hope you will support me in this. (applause from the centre)
mr president, madam vice-president, and fellow members of the christian faith, i can say that everyone here has been involved in this project for years and has been a champion of maritime safety. i would like to say on behalf of the epp/ed group that although officially we are a little late in adopting the package of legislation two years after the erika accident, if we take into account the difficulties, we are not so bad in terms of the timetable. we have had to go through the second reading and the conciliation procedure in at least two areas. we can now say that, thanks to the joint efforts of the commission, we have made progress on the basis of the first proposals it put forward after the erika tanker disaster two years ago, and i thank you, commissioner, once again for your support in the conciliation procedure with your staff. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of ships is not compromised by the fact that the safety of ships is not guaranteed by the rules of the treaty. i believe that by increasing port state control, by tightening the rules on classification societies and by gradually introducing double-hulled tankers, we have actually managed to make some progress in preventing accidents like the erika or at least mitigating their consequences. commissioner, i would like to say the following about port state control. i think it was good that we in the mediation process - specifically mark watts - insisted that the black box issue be settled now. you see, the erika ii package is just not ready. i hope it comes quickly, but you know it's still a bit of a hassle. in this respect, it was right that we insisted on including these commitments in the erika i package. as far as the question of ship classification is concerned, my colleagues know that i am not very happy with the result. we don't have a ceiling, but we do have a review clause. i trust that after three years the commission will report and make new proposals to us on how to cover the damage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. i think we have been very wise in our common position on double-hulled tankers. we should say that to the outside world. we are constantly accused of setting european standards and ignoring global agreements. i'm not going to. we have accepted that the imo sets the basic rules, we have only changed a little in the implementation, in the deadlines. but if you look at what the americans have done, we were harmless in the matter of enforcing the introduction! i hope we can adopt the second package here next year. commissioner, put pressure on the council! we cannot afford to delay the next five years with regard to the compensation rule of the cope fund. i'm counting on you to put pressure on them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to join my predecessors in thanking you, commissioner, your staff and our rapporteurs, because i think it was good that we as parliament and the commission worked very closely together on this issue. the fact that today is 12 december, the anniversary of erika's death, should not only fill us with pride, but it should also fill us with pride that two years have passed since we were able to debate today and that the vote will take place tomorrow. then it'll be a while before all this is implemented. i'll make it faster next time! the results can be seen. we'll be getting the secure double-hulled tankers at a faster rate. in 2003, the old container ships are being retired and the port state control is finally living up to its name. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the threat of a possible invasion of the french fishing fleet. the classification societies of the types of vessels are subject to stricter requirements. we know that the majority of these companies are doing good work, but there can be no more licenses for sloppiness in these companies. member states now have 18 months to implement this. the legal framework is there. but laws that are only on paper are ultimately ridiculous. what good is port state control without controllers? i think that the commissioner has a duty to ensure that the member states do not forget that the european union is a great example of a great community, and that the european union is a great example of a great community. so i have two comments to make on this: i just brought it up. erika ii - must not last as long as erika i did. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the oil spills. that is why we should implement our proposals here more quickly, which parliament has already made. the last point: we are facing the enlargement of the eu. this includes two candidate countries, malta and cyprus, which have been mentioned repeatedly. i would therefore like to make a heartfelt request to the commissioner again to apply the so-called acquis communautaire very, very strictly to these countries if they wish to become members of the eu, so that they are not black sheep, but only white sheep. i have already said that we have a saying: in court and on the high seas, you are in god's hands! on the high seas, we can do a little good to make things safer, and that's what we should do with the erika package. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already done so. i have hope. in the area of maritime safety we are on the right track. we have already clearly defined the first measures which can contribute to a substantial improvement in maritime safety. the introduction of the black box, as seen in aircraft, and the double-hulled tanker have made a major contribution to this. parliament has made a number of points in this connection, including in the conciliation committee where necessary, as mr ortuondo larrea has mentioned. but does this also apply to the liability regime? you all know about the regular vehicle inspection. a similar position is taken by the classification societies for safety at sea. the classification of the ship's condition by its inspectors is the basis for liability in the event of accidents. we are therefore at the heart of the debate, because the question of the uniform maximum limits of liability of classification societies, especially in cases of slight negligence, needs to be clarified in a coherent way. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the inspection bodies are fully independent and transparent, by separating the interests of the classification societies, the shipowners and other stakeholders. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. in the end, it is the classification societies that occupy the weakest position in the chain of liability. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. the ultimate responsibility for the condition and treatment of ships rests with the owners. the classification societies and the shipowners and the other parties involved must be on the same page here, and we must create the conditions for this. at the moment we still have separate liability ceilings in each member state. it would be fair, however, to limit liability uniformly to a certain extent. in three years' time we shall be reviewing the present system with a different ceiling. the lessons learned will influence and shape our future course of action. here i see our mission for the near future. we want a balanced chain of responsibility and accountability. we need this binding regulation to strengthen competition and reduce risk. this is essential for a functioning market and for safety at sea. we are putting the classification society under more scrutiny, that is true. but at the same time, we should give them the opportunity to calculate their risk. i think this is a fair arrangement that takes due account of all sides. we must continue on the path we have taken and go to the end. (applause from the centre)
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. let me make a preliminary remark. this is another example of how important legislation in this house is usually dealt with just before midnight, while during the day we are dealing with some more or less pointless resolutions on summits of some kind, which usually do not produce results. i would like to see us in future making important legislation at more appropriate times during plenary week. i would also like to thank the rapporteur on behalf of the legal affairs committee for the very balanced report. this report, or this commission proposal, is a follow-up to the directive on payment systems adopted in 1998. i was the rapporteur for this directive in the legal affairs committee - which was still in charge at the time - and i can only say that the problems which faced us and which have now been solved in this way were essentially the same as those which now arise again. we simply have to make sure that there is a reasonable balance between the interest in having such systems of credit collateral and keeping them stable, and other interests that naturally exist, such as creditors in bankruptcy proceedings, which also have to be taken into account, and that there is a fair balance here. there can be no doubt that this is not just about protecting these financial systems, but also about ensuring that other people affected by this system are not put at a disadvantage. i think that a fair balance has been struck here, and this is a very crucial aspect. the second aspect raised by the rapporteur, which was also of importance to us in the legal affairs committee, is the fact that the limits in terms of privilege have been drawn relatively - i would say liberally - in the report. we thought that it should be extended to mediumsized enterprises or restricted to banks and direct participants in the financial markets. i think that the economic and social committee has achieved a good result in this respect too, and i should like to conclude in view of the time that has elapsed. we are in agreement with what the rapporteur has said here, and i can say this from the point of view of the committee on legal affairs, and we support it in this way.
- madam president! - what is it? i would like to make a brief comment, but it may simplify matters: there has been an agreement which, from the point of view of parliament, is very good in terms of the output targets for development policy. as we do not need to re-write this in the relevant resolution, we hereby withdraw amendment no 1. we believe that parliament has made very good progress on this point in the budget. that is why we no longer need this amendment no 1.
i would like to add at the end of this sentence - and i ask for the support of the house - that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
- madam president, i would suggest that you replace the words 'all the countries of the region' with 'israel and the palestinian authority'.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
- mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. pirate fleet, who doesn't think of hollywood adventure films as heroic as they are romantically transformed or exciting literature from youth. the background to my thoughts on pirates now that i am speaking to you is not a defamatory one and certainly not a cause for enthusiasm. it is about the destructive practice of fishing and the so-called flags of convenience, also known as the flags of convenience. the european union has also been a major player in the fight against piracy, and has been a major player in the fight against piracy. where is the damage done by these ships and the flag of convenience? we have always been very keen, especially in this house, to make fishing sustainable and to ensure minimum standards of working conditions. the very serious situation of fish stocks and the difficult economic situation show us that there is still a lot to be done, and we are dealing with this problem in the green bay debate. however, rules and management plans must be respected, and this can only be ensured by effective controls and effective sanctions, including political ones. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the consequences are catastrophic for fish and people. regional management plans are ignored, stocks that are already threatened are fished ruthlessly, and agreements to protect workers are simply not respected. but i do not want to lament any longer, because the situation is obvious. i therefore ask that we continue to work with the countries of conciliation and remind them of their international obligations. we in europe can and must act too. the port state controls already decided on in the erika i package must also relate to piracy and, finally, we must close our markets to the income of these fleets.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the bee is a symbol of consistent diligence, and in this sense our colleague mrs lulling is literally the queen bee of the european parliament, because she has been for years, for over a decade, the one who has forced us to deal with this question again and again, not with sugar and whips, but with honey and bee stings, that is, with convincing arguments that many people tend to underestimate because they were not as fortunate as i was to see, at the beginning of the 1980s, that the largest group of visitors to this house in strasbourg was a group of the late mr heinrich aigner, who was also very much involved in this issue, a group of bavarians who were at that time several hundred bavarians in the european parliament and this shows how much they are committed to this cause, our people too. beekeepers are not a large voting group, but beekeepers are people who care about bees, and bees are the ones who make sure that, as astrid lulling has said, that our ecosystem is at least somewhat balanced again and again. we are at the beginning of a cold winter, but when this winter is over, we know that there will be a spring, a spring in which the bees will be on the move again, carrying out their pollination, and we will see a flourishing landscape. but there is a danger that one day there will be a winter and then there will be no spring because the ecological performance of the bees is no longer or not enough. there are many people who think of the eu as a land of milk and honey. in the case of milk, we have tried to get the quotas under control to some extent. the thing about bees is that we are almost 50% self-sufficient in the european union, and if you really want to see a country that flows with milk and honey, you have to go to argentina, as i did this summer. argentina could supply the european union with most or many of the products we need, but at the very time we are experiencing the global political crisis, two new elements have come to our attention. first, the awareness of quality due to the bse crisis, and second, the awareness of the need to eat healthy food from the soil, following the crisis of 9/11. i believe that a functioning european agriculture and a functioning european ecosystem need our beekeepers to support them accordingly, and that is why i ask for massive support for the lulling report.
- mr. president, i don't want to hold up the store for a fee. i am the vice-chairman of this committee and i have been treated in the same way. i think it is outrageous that even as deputy chairman of the committee you are not informed in time of an extraordinary committee meeting. this is a completely unacceptable procedure!
- mr president, i have to go. it is now the sixth since the crisis in zimbabwe broke out, and it is the most severe. we have to thank the council for finally putting article 96 into effect, so to speak, in accordance with the cotonou agreement, since the last resolution. we hope that contacts with zimbabwe will be of some use in this context, although it is not really to be expected that this gentleman will be interested in our measures. on the contrary, he is going to be elected by his own party members as their presidential candidate this weekend in victoria falls, and he is making preparations to make this election a farce right now. this includes requiring not only identity cards as proof of voting, but also proof of residence. it's very difficult for many people to do that. he wants the election to be held not nationwide but in constituencies. people who aren't registered in the big cities where they work will have to travel home. most people won't be able to afford it. the aim is to exclude as many people as possible from voting, because he knows that he is also excluding a majority of opponents from voting. in masningo province, 200,000 people are currently starving because the governor hungwe has been preventing food from being distributed by ngos for four weeks. the governor demands that the food be delivered to him first, and then distributed through him. he will, of course, use it only to support his own. let us not let this gentleman get away with it, but let us make sure that we stop mr mugabe in time with targeted measures. i call on all of you to do so. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is bitter to see a stubborn president who has also done great things, systematically ruining his country with unscrupulous activists of his party, and not shying away from deadly violence because he cannot accept the threat of losing power. i was an observer at the time of the parliamentary elections, as mr gahler was, and i saw firsthand that mugabe and his thugs were driving the country into disaster. despite massive voter intimidation - and this will happen again - and despite massive persecution of opposition candidates, which in many cases ended in death, the mdc has achieved a remarkable result that has clearly signaled to mugabe that a political change is not far off. now, with the presidential election approaching, mugabe is turning the screws on violence and terror. there is no sign of the return to the rule of law promised by the abuja agreement, quite the contrary. with new legal repression, massive restrictions on press freedom and threats to the opposition, continuing farm occupations and a permanent erosion of the rule of law, mugabe is increasingly isolating himself even among his traditional allies in southern africa. this was very evident at the last meeting of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in brussels in october. these states are being dragged into the maelstrom of decline by the humanitarian and economic disaster in zimbabwe, and we need further pressure to persuade robert mugabe to change his mind and to hold the presidential elections in accordance with the standards of free and fair elections, and here we also need the support of the european community institutions.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. cluster bombs, as we all know, are among the most insidious of conventional weapons ever devised by man. the civilian population and aid workers are still being bombed years after the conflict has ended. peaceful solutions are often impossible to implement because the remnants block entire areas. refugees cannot return because the areas are no longer habitable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the bombing will hamper the implementation of a peace settlement and economic development in afghanistan for years to come. i think it is irresponsible that this bombardment is still going on today and i call on the united states to stop this bombardment at last. i also call on all states, particularly the signatory states to the un convention on conventional weapons, to impose an immediate moratorium at their next conference and to declare that the use, production and transfer of these weapons will be definitively prohibited. i call on the commission and the council to urge the united states in their negotiations to join in this ban on cluster bombs.
- mr president, i have to go. my group has voted in favour of this resolution and i am one of those who support it and who are also strongly in favour of the moratorium. in this war, we must be very careful. we are fighting a terrorist regime, but we are in danger of not preparing for peace and of having entered this conflict without a clear peace programme and perspective. we are opposed to the death penalty, which the taliban have used, and we are doing so on major american television stations, which enjoy broadcasting executions. we are opposed to the hostility of the taliban towards women and we are silent about the mass rapes committed by the so-called northern alliance, a very dubious alliance. so it is with this issue: we must, of course, use weapons systems to make this war in afghanistan a success. but on the other hand, it's about saving civilians as much as possible, to prevent further escalation of war in the world and also further escalation of weapons systems, especially at a time when more and more politicians, including former pacifists, are suddenly starting to think again in terms of the manageability of wars and accepting war as a means of politics. it must be a last resort sometimes, but i'm already worried about how casual people are now in their thinking about war. it is precisely at such a time that it is necessary to ban such weapons systems and, above all, to strengthen international law. we have an international coalition against terrorism, but if we fail to convert this into a strengthening of international law at the united nations, we will run the risk of having some other constellations that we absolutely do not want. the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism, but the perspective must be to strengthen international law, to ban - and this is also a topical issue - nuclear weapons, as well as biological and chemical weapons. here we turn to the united states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the use of cluster bombs, which are a means of warfare that endangers the civilian population to an unacceptable degree. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have to deal with this problem, but i am saying that the european parliament should be the only one to deal with it.
- mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. without the participation of women, there can be no lasting peace in afghanistan. this was the main message of the eu-supported afghan women's summit in brussels on 5 and 6 december. around 50 women leaders from all sectors of society in the country attended the summit, with the aim of making the voice of afghan women heard in the ongoing international political debate. we welcome the decision of the un-afghanistan conference, held in parallel in bonn, to appoint at least two women to the transitional government, including one as deputy prime minister. we have certainly contributed to this with the brussels summit. you can count on our support, but more needs to happen. we insist that women have a good chance to be elected as candidates in future elections at every political level. that means that they need support and practical help in a special democracy programme. all further negotiations must ensure that afghan women are fully integrated into the conflict resolution efforts as well as the ongoing peace talks. the current global public and media attention must be used to build new structures and ensure that afghan women are heard. as in 1998, my group will use international women's day 2002 to keep up the tide of support for the prevention of humanitarian disaster. we social democrats, who have been pointing out for years the disastrous situation for women in the taliban state, now have the motto: no project for the future of afghanistan, no political agreement can be accepted without the full participation of women. we call for the creation of a group of afghan women leaders to coordinate international support and a corresponding contact person for eu aid. the women and girls of afghanistan have suffered 20 years of war and the constant violation of human rights. but that did not condemn them to silence. afghan organizations like rawa have worked hard and resisted the taliban state. it is not foreseeable that the northern alliance will be much better. that is why we must support the courage and tenacity of rawa today. this morning we have created the budgetary conditions for supporting ngos as we have done for rawa. but we need long-suffering and committed women to ensure that peace, freedom and equality are granted to women in afghanistan. we must not give up until women's rights are fully respected as human rights in the future constitution. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. the international conference on afghanistan held in bonn last wednesday produced very good results. the transitional government of 29 members will include two women. this is a vital message and a first step towards social acceptance. the taliban's reign of terror and its medieval regime will end, and so will the brutal suppression of women's rights. they were the chief sufferers of the self-styled god warrior caste. they were denied education, training, employment and any right to speak. you were banished from public life. the bitter result: only 5% of all women and girls can read or write. from now on, women will gradually win equal opportunities in access to jobs, medical care and the right to vote. they need a seat in parliament and a voice in government. i am convinced that they will be able to build their own organizations to influence economic and social decision-making. they will find their new identity, but they need a long breath, and we have to support them in that. i hope that the women we honored on march 8, 1998 with our campaign "a flower for kabul" can return to their professions as doctors, teachers, professors, managers. on behalf of the epp and as a member of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, i support the proposal to declare 8 march next year as afghan women's day. the european union has given afghanistan 400 million euros in aid in the last 10 years alone. we must invest more in programmes and actions for women. we also call on afghanistan's neighbouring countries to play an active role in the reconstruction process. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the resolution we are about to adopt contains a number of statements on the necessary measures to be taken by the european union in the light of such an event. my colleague sylla pointed out that this is not a singular event, but that we are faced with these problems again and again every year. i would therefore like to make a few comments on behalf of our group. we are aware of this and have already adopted many resolutions here on what is necessary and what must be implemented and what is in some cases already being implemented. i would like to raise another point, and that is to say, one which i would like to link to your minute's silence, mr president. a moment of silence is a tribute to the victims. these victims deserve not only the honor of our minute of silence, but also the following consideration: the people who turn to the criminal elements, who take money from them to take them to a seeming paradise, these people have hope. they hope for a better life, usually not for themselves, but for their children. they give away everything, their possessions, their fortune and their hope. a german proverb says: "hope is the last to die". the people in that container have held out hope until their last breath that they would reach their destination. i now come to the other aspect of my considerations. the people who play with these hopes, the people who take money for these hopes, the corrupt border guards who let these people who came from kurdistan cross our external borders, the criminals who want to profit from this hopelessness into which they lead people, have also deserved a minute of the deepest contempt of which we as a civilized society are capable. i would like to dedicate this contempt to the victims, following your minute of commemoration. i want their children to know that the perpetrators have the utmost contempt for the civilized world. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, commissioner nielson, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. west africa is in the process of organizing its cooperation in a common market. it is building common regional, economic and political structures. if all goes well, we shall be able to speak and debate with the parliamentarians of the new west african regional assembly of the regional parliament next year at the acp assembly. we will be able to organise our practical cooperation. but there are some serious obstacles, and one of the most serious is the authoritarian regime of president eyadéma in togo. we demand the immediate release and restoration of democratic rights for yawowi agboyibo, who was arbitrarily arrested and is now serving an unjustified six-month sentence. the president of the republic should release him now, after more than five months in prison. we are not asking for a pardon. he has done nothing wrong, he has only pointed out wrongdoing, and he should be released from prison as soon as possible. we regret that the attempt by our president, mrs nicole fontaine, to meet president eyadéma in paris last week and ask him to make this dismissal was unsuccessful. eyadéma is playing cat and mouse with us. we can no longer accept that further development aid is provided here. we support the commission in suspending development aid. but we hope that we will soon be able to provide further humanitarian aid to the togolese people, and we also hope that next year, despite all the obstacles, democratization will continue and that elections for parliament and then for the president of the country will be held a year later. we appeal to eyadéma to put an end to this comedy. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. i have one minute. since you are the vice-president responsible for reforming the work of parliament in this house, i will try to give you an example of what can be said in a minute that makes sense. all the groups are in agreement. a famous bavarian cabaret performer, after visiting the bavarian state assembly, said that he now knew what parliamentarism was: "everything has been said, but not by everyone". i would therefore like to say that i am not going to repeat everything that my predecessors have said, which is right and completely correct, but i would just like to say that i agree with what my predecessors have said. you are right, it is scandalous that ms. sana and ms. zana and ms. suu kyi could not come to us to receive the prizes. the fact that they are still being unjustly detained, especially by a country which is seeking to join the eu, is unacceptable. thank you for your attention.
- mr president, i have to go. the maoist rebels in nepal have unilaterally terminated the ceasefire. the result is 250 deaths in a matter of days. this is a bitter chapter in the history of this young democracy. the escalation of violence has claimed more than 2,500 lives in six years. police officers were killed indiscriminately, bombings were carried out in the centre of kathmandu, and innocent people lost their lives. the maoist struggle raises the threat of civil war, apparently backed by communists in china. the economic damage is enormous, with tourism alone, the main source of income, bringing only 24,000 travelers to nepal last month. that's 40% less than a year ago. the international community has been watching. with the declaration of the state of emergency, with the first use of the army, that changed abruptly. india will provide nepal with helicopters and night vision equipment, and the united states is considering military involvement. but political action must take precedence. we call on the rebels to lay down their arms and return to the negotiating table. they will not achieve one goal, namely the abolition of the constitutional monarchy. i know very well from my regular visits over the last seven years that the overwhelming majority of people support this form of government, regardless of their religion or group. king gyanendra deserves our full support. he has recognised the nepalese constitution. he is continuing the path of his murdered brother, to fight for democracy and the rule of law. we also call on the government and the political parties to finally launch economic and structural reforms and to fight corruption in a consistent manner. the people deserve concrete measures to combat poverty. the european union has given 120 million euros in aid to nepal over the last ten years alone. i know many of these projects firsthand. they're excellent. we are one of nepal's most important partners, and therefore we can bring our full weight as an honest broker. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. it is a little unusual for me that the rapporteur is not here. i would like to congratulate him from this place, because the pes supports his report and we will accept it as such. we also support the commission's communication, although we believe that it is not enough to list the existing barriers and postpone the legislative proposals. we hope that by the spring summit we will have proposals and an effective action plan in this respect. critically, we would like to note that the proposed or listed skills shortages in the hightech sector are of course not sufficient. as socialists, we want to give all workers the chance to benefit from mobility and to increase mobility within the framework of european labour markets. we must give them those opportunities. the new labour market must not be open only to specific small groups, but must be open to all workers in europe. i think that the commission should therefore be offering creative ideas and solutions, rather than just listing the problems. we also need a study that looks in more detail at the possible disruptions of the labour market in frontier regions or in certain sectors such as construction and transport. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
commission. – just a personal comment at the outset. my spokesman does not speak danish. i do not have the option of having danish as the working language in my cabinet. the flow of work would simply choke. i am not speaking danish here today – that is not an option really. i would have to do the translation on my way to the chamber, having got the material the same day. i could, but honestly, in my personal opinion, if we are serious about european integration, we have to be prepared to swallow our pride occasionally in order to do things in an effective manner. the theme of this discussion, in my view, is different. it has to do with stimulating the diversity that exists out there, and that is, in fact, another discussion. here, the year of languages is drawing to a close, but it is not quite over yet and many activities are still in progress. of the 200-odd projects that are co-financed by the commission, most are still running and many events will take place throughout europe in the remaining weeks of the year. the evaluation of the year will get under way this month. the commission considers that the end of 2001 should not be the end of the european year of languages initiative. a report will be presented to the other european institutions by 31 december 2002 at the latest, in accordance with the provisions of article 11 of decision no 1934/2000/ec establishing the european year of languages 2001. furthermore, on 29 november of this year, the council adopted an important resolution on the promotion of linguistic diversity and language learning. it invites the commission to present proposals for actions to promote linguistic diversity and language learning by early 2003. linguistic diversity is a defining characteristic of the european union, and regional and minority languages, alongside the many other languages used in europe are a key feature of it. regional and minority languages will therefore be taken into account both in the report that the commission will present to the other institutions in the course of 2002 and in the proposals for actions to be presented in 2003. however, it is still too early to say what specific actions will be taken in this domain. as stated in article 22 of the charter of fundamental rights, the union respects cultural, religious and linguistic diversity in its various programmes and activities. many, like socrates, leonardo da vinci, culture 2000, media plus, e-content or the european regional development fund, are already providing funding opportunities for regional and minority languages and cultures. we support these efforts which have to have a very broad aim in order to have the effect we intended.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i welcome today's debate. i am glad that we are doing it at the end of the year of languages, because we have tried several times during the year to encourage the commission to do something for minority languages. the commission has always replied that it will not do so because it does not want to do so until next year in its own programme. now we have heard that the commission does not want to do anything about minority languages. i am glad that we have this question on the table today. i am saddened that some joker has taken the liberty of changing the title of this resolution. we're not talking about linguistic diversity, we're talking about the less used languages. that is why i am a little sorry, commissioner nielson, that you did not pay any respect to a less used language, namely danish, and spoke danish. it is not a matter of pride, but of respect for the diversity of european languages, which include danish. i am in favour of talking about it, i am in favour of talking about it more, i am in favour of the commission doing something about it. but i have to tell you quite frankly, this text we have before us today is hot-spotted, it is unserious and unprofessional, and i am not proud of it at all. i just have to say it. we could have afforded something better if we'd had more time. that is why i say that our group does not support all the amendments. i think that article 3 is better than amendment no 4. why should i agree to your amendment if our article in the resolution is better than your amendment? we mean the same thing. we should just be a little more serious. the second question is: we all in this house - and i myself - are in favour of a majority vote on cultural matters. but we should take the first step before we ask for the second. we cannot ask for a second one until we have taken the first step. so we should stay sane and hope that laeken will inspire something in the convent that will lead to this. finally, i would like to say that we, as the european people's party, are prepared to propose an own-initiative report on minority languages in the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport. i believe that all those who are speaking out so eloquently today can show that they are really in favour of this. i would therefore be very glad if we could get rid of the resolution today, because it is not as good as an own-initiative report could be. i don't suppose the socialists will be joining us. then we'll see how it ends. but i'm announcing that we're going to request a report. tell your colleagues to vote with us next year.
- mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. when this house first discussed linguistic diversity and minority languages in the early 1980s, your predecessor, commissioner nielson, said a few sentences in welsh, and although we did not understand anything, we were pleased by this commitment to the cultural diversity of europe. i would like to say that our vision of europe is not dominated by technocratic, bureaucratic or economic considerations, but that for us europe is above all a cultural project whose linguistic diversity must be defended. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the major languages of the european union, such as french, which is also a un language, spanish, one of the world's languages, which is now being used officially for the first time in the american election campaign and will soon be the second language of the united states, and german, which is the mother tongue of most of the eu's inhabitants, are now minority languages. our former colleague siegbert alber once said: 'in europe we are all minorities'. but, of course, we must also take care of the minor languages which are official languages, and above all the languages which are the subject of today's debate, namely the minority languages which are not official languages of the eu but which need our massive support. unfortunately, we cannot introduce them as official languages in our bodies. that would probably be too much. but we must do everything we can to protect regional and minority languages in the european union. because the people belonging to national minorities are already in the eu today, and even more so in the future, the second largest nationality in the eu after the germans and before the french. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are fighting to make them the mortar of europe, and that is why we support minority languages.
- so if the title is changed, it has to be called something else. then it must be called 'the less widely spoken languages in the european union', european languages and not something else! (applause from the centre)
mr president, lesser-used european languages is correct.
i want the original version with 'european' in between – regional and lesser-used european languages.
counsel. - madam president, allow me, as president of the european council, to express first of all my gratitude and also my admiration for your presidency. under your leadership, the european parliament has made an impressive political and, above all, legislative progress. you yourself have done pioneering work, both externally and for our union. you drew the attention of the european union to this issue long before the afghan crisis began and you had already started a fight for the fate of women in afghanistan. your role in the drafting of the charter of fundamental rights cannot be underestimated, and this concerns all european citizens. we have taken up the convention model in laeken, of which you are one of the architects. in many respects you have prepared the european parliament for the new period in interinstitutional relations. finally, i would also like to thank you very warmly for the excellent cooperation between parliament and the council during our presidency. thank you so much for all this! (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. - madam president, i join with deep feelings of gratitude in praising you and the achievements of your presidency of the european parliament. these were very important years, in which the fundamental debates on the future of the union were launched. you have played a very active, attentive and generous role in all this, open to the demands of european public opinion and to the needs of us all. it is not only parliament, as we have just seen, but also the commission which is grateful to you for this constant and decisive action. i would like to stress in particular its strong sense of responsibility, which is expressed in its repeated rejection of all forms of violence, particularly terrorist violence. your speeches, madam president, moderate in tone but lucid and strong in substance, have encouraged and supported all european democrats in their struggle for peaceful coexistence among our citizens. i wish you all the best for the future, in the service - i am sure - of the cause of europe, for which you have done so much in these two and a half years. thank you, madam president! (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! it is the day to say a very, very warm word of thanks to our president, nicole fontaine, who comes from our group, for the passion with which she has been carrying out her duties for the past two and a half years, as she has just said herself. madam president, you are standing in a row with louise weiss and simone veil. louise weiss, simone veil and nicole fontaine are three great presidents of our european parliament. we ask ourselves today: what were the outstanding qualities of your presidency? the first is that you have always placed the idea of the community, the action of the european institutions, at the centre of your policy, and that is the european parliament, which you have always represented with great dignity in public, but also at summits. if the photo of laeken shows you between the king of belgium and the president of france, then that is an expression of your power of persuasion. thirdly, and you were one of the few to do so, you have spoken out against all forms of terrorism, particularly in spain, but also throughout the world. your invitation to commander massud was one of your big decisions, which you made as if you anticipated what was going to happen in afghanistan. so today we have every reason to thank you from the bottom of our hearts! you have always been a full member of our group, including as president, but when you leave the presidency in january you will return to the working structures of our group and you will then be sitting next to the former president of the european parliament, josé maría gil-robles gil-delgado, whom we hold in the same high esteem. we are delighted to have you with us in our daily work, as well as josé maría gil-robles gil-delgado. we welcome you back to our group and we sincerely thank you for your convincing work, very honourable, dear mrs nicole fontaine! (applause from the centre)
president of the commission. - madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, i am particularly honoured to be taking part in this debate, just after the laeken summit. in laeken we took a big step towards the europe we want: a more democratic, more open europe, in which our citizens are finally beginning to identify fully. i would first like to pay tribute to the belgian presidency of the council for the way it has conducted the work of the six months, and in particular the work which led to the laeken declaration. laeken has launched a new constitutional phase in the construction of europe, a phase in which this parliament and the national parliaments can play a key role. the new process will be open, transparent and will help give our fellow citizens a better understanding of the fundamental issues at stake in europe today. the stakes, in the context of enlargement and globalisation, are very high. i see the road traced in laeken as the only way to ensure democratic legitimacy, to ensure that the union can pursue integration and enlargement without risking that citizens will then reject the solutions adopted by governments. the enlargement of the european union is an irreversible process which is already well advanced. we must not forget that this is one of the main reasons for the convention. without institutional change, the enlarged union would remain inexorably stalled. without an open debate, there is a risk of losing the support of the citizens of the union and the candidate countries. we should not underestimate the importance of the fact that the applicant countries are involved for the first time in an institutional process with constitutional implications. it is their future, no less than the future of the present 15 member states, that is being decided. the results of the laeken european council, however, are not limited to the launching of the convention. the events of 11 september have reminded us of what those who want to abuse freedom can do to destroy it, and the support given by the council to our activities in the field of home affairs will help us to achieve our objective of building an area of freedom, security and justice in the european union. work on a common policy on immigration and asylum has been given a new impetus. the european council called for the commission's communication on illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings to serve as a basis for an action plan. in this context, as i proposed in my recent speech in bruges, the european council invited the council and the commission to explore ways of enabling effective cooperation between those who guard the union's external borders, and to consider the possibility of establishing a common mechanism or a common border control service. i regret that the laeken council was unable to go further in resolving the question of future european agencies. let me be clear - i too agree with what prime minister verhofstadt said - this is not a drama. however, as we have already seen on other occasions, we are forced to conclude that the unanimity rule simply hinders the decisionmaking process. one point must be clear by now. the 'community method' has made the union what it is: the eu is a union of peoples and a union of states, which requires an innovative decision-making structure, with common institutions and a single voice for all countries, large and small. the community method has served to promote efficiency and democratic legitimacy. we just have to adapt and reinforce it. this is in order not to lose the support of public opinion and also in the interest of the efficiency of our actions. our fellow citizens are sick of this kind of trading. they are more interested in whether the much-heralded european food safety authority is really able to start work than in where the seat is. i therefore confirm that the authority will start its activities on 1 january 2002 at its provisional - i stress, provisional - seat in brussels. the citizens can no longer wait for the establishment of a body dedicated to the protection of their health. in this respect, the commission intends to continue to attach the utmost importance to its relations with parliament. we have improved our procedures and our way of working, but in the last few weeks we have seen that this process of building reports and procedures has not yet achieved the objectives that we all set ourselves. it will be our task to work together to achieve these quickly and to base the second part of the legislature on a complete synergy between the commission and parliament. the objective we set ourselves in lisbon in march 2000 was to make the union the most competitive and dynamic economy in the world within 10 years. at the same time, we are committed to ensuring that it becomes a more equitable society that is responsive to the needs of all. i am pleased that the laeken council agreed to give priority to these objectives. barcelona must therefore be a significant and irreversible step forward in consolidating and developing the european social model. but we shall have occasion to discuss this again in the course of the preparations for that summit. the european council reaffirmed the strategic importance of the galileo satellite navigation project, which can catalyse innovation and competitiveness. nor could it have been otherwise, since just a month ago the member states of the european space agency - 13 of which are member states of the european union - committed eur 550 million to participate in the project. a different decision would have sent a contradictory signal to a project which is vital to our future and our independence. the european council has clearly set out the dates and objectives for the first half of 2002: now it's time to conclude without further ado. our credibility is at stake, the credibility of the council and parliament is at stake. the commission is therefore ready to help in order to meet the commitments made and finally move to the concrete development phase, taking into account all the technical and financial aspects of the project. the convention must meet expectations, ladies and gentlemen, and must bring about a change that will enable us to look with confidence to a complex and difficult future. it will not have to reinvent the union, it will not have to re-think the acquis communautaire; the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the future of the union. the establishment of the convention is a deliberate break with the past. our aim is that it can draw on the ideas and experiences of many, not just a few. our goal is to have it in the light of day, not in a closed room. in the convention, the commission will act as the guardian of the treaties and as the bearer of the community spirit. equality between all the member states and balance between the union's institutions are the best guarantee of a fair and efficient europe. moreover, if we look at the latest eurobarometer data, we can clearly conclude that our citizens are getting closer to europe and its institutions, even faster than we thought. at the latest by 2004, but probably before that date, the convention's contributions will be examined by an intergovernmental conference, after which the citizens of the old and new member states will elect their representatives to this assembly. let us therefore prepare ourselves for these important and important deadlines. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have given our warm thanks to our president, but we can also give a warm word of thanks to the presidency of the council, and here in the first place to prime minister guy verhofstadt, for the success which you, europe, and all of us in laeken have achieved with the laeken declaration. mr president-in-office of the council, you have acted - and i would like to include mr michel in this thanks - in the best belgian tradition, as your predecessors - leo tindemans, who will be 80 in a few months, wilfried martens, president of the european people's party, and jean-luc dehaene - have always done: european, committed, convincing! this is also an example of how the government of a so-called smaller country can sometimes make much better policy and can set europe on the right track much better than so-called larger countries always claim for themselves. (applause from the centre) i therefore express my sincere thanks. i would just like to say something about the laeken declaration, because many colleagues from our group will be addressing the other subjects - laeken is a great personal success for you, mr prime minister, and we are very pleased about it! i would also like to thank the commission very much. we are sometimes critical, even if the commission thinks that there is little reason to be critical. the president of the commission, mr prodi, and the member responsible for european union reform, mr barnier, have not only always accompanied us on this journey, but we have walked this path together. it was our party, the european people's party, which proposed a convention at its congress in berlin in january. we are glad that this is the position of the whole european parliament and also of the main institutions. i think that the new method we have now, namely the parliamentarisation of the reform of the european union, is crucial. parliamentarians have a majority in the convention, and we hope that this will also lead to the media helping to create a real publicity, because if we create publicity through public meetings, this does not have an immediate effect, but this effect will only come about if the media also transport it, so that it is accessible to the people, and this is the request we want to make to the media today. there has been some discussion about this tripartite presidency which has been set up for the convention. i can tell you, mr president-in-office, that i think that is a very wise decision. valéry giscard d'estaing was not only the french president, but he was also a member of the european parliament, a member of our group at the end. he was also once in the liberal group and then he came to us, which was of course an increase in happiness, and he wrote, above all, a report on subsidiarity, which is not at all unusual for a former french president. i say to you: i would rather have a president who is a little older, who has a fresh, alert mind and an open european heart, than a young president who is anti-european! i therefore think that this decision is a good one, also in conjunction with jean-luc dehaene, with whom we have excellent contacts as a group, and also with giuliano amato, who is a distinguished european. there will be nine other members of the convention, and i think the two representatives of the european parliament will be from the two major groups. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the right, protest and interlocutory shouts from the left) the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. as regards the content, mr president-in-office, i thought it very wise that you asked questions. i do not want to give our answers to that now. the commission's position is that the council should be able to take decisions on the basis of the votes of the electorate. the way in which the working structures are set up in this convention is also crucial, and i think that we as the european parliament, with our 16 representatives, have a great opportunity to be something of an avant-garde. i have just proposed to our group that our party family - i do not know how the other groups do it - should also meet in the spirit of parliamentarisation, that is to say at group level, that our members in the convention from the ppe-de group and the national colleagues should meet to prepare the work in a structural way. i'm asking the 15 governments to send their best people to the convention. it is not possible for people to be involved in a seminar, but for personalities to represent governments and to have a feedback to governments. if president valéry giscard d'estaing is to report to the summit of heads of state or government after the laeken declaration, it would be only reasonable to introduce a similar reporting obligation for the representatives of national governments. they should report to the respective national governments, because that would ensure that the convention does not act in isolation, but that there is a constant feedback loop. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i hope that the commitment also of the government representatives, of the staff from the parliaments, whether european parliament or national parliaments, is so strong that the result can be accepted on the whole. if we achieve this together, this european union, our old europe, which will then be renewed, will be able to act internally, able to act externally, a democratic, convincing europe that represents our values! (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! the laeken declaration on the convening of the convention was a historic decision for the future of the european union. it is of particular importance that none of the many open political questions on the future of the european union have been made taboo and that the mandate of the convention can at the same time be linked to the launching of a european constitutional process. the convening of the convention is also a milestone in european politics because it hopes to put an end to the policy of secret diplomacy behind closed doors, of opaque decision-making and of bargaining in the marathon of long-night meetings, as was recently the case at the nice summit! i think it is important to note that the convention will be composed of a majority of democratically elected members of national parliaments and the european parliament, that it will be open to the public and will engage in dialogue with a wide range of civil society organisations, and that the candidate countries will be involved in drawing up proposals for the most profound reform of the european union to date. this is the opportunity to have a truly pan-european debate and to have a broad public debate on the future of the union. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the election of those who will represent their countries, their national parliaments or the european parliament is of particular importance in this context and it must be ensured that the convention is not only attended by representatives of the major european party families. the diversity of opinions must be taken into account, because the european union is indeed at a crossroads, and the proposals to be drawn up by the convention must ultimately reflect a genuinely shared european position on the future of europe. the success of the convention and, ultimately, the future viability of the european union will depend, in my view, on the successful completion of the process of democratizing the european union and strengthening the individual rights of its citizens. i hope and trust that through the dedicated work of all its members, the convention as an autonomous body will develop its own political dynamic in the course of its deliberations, so that the next igc cannot simply ignore the convention's proposals. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. even if we look at it more soberly, the laeken summit may one day appear as a milestone, where europeans, having put an end to a period of stumbling, have taken up their feet again and set out to break the deadlock of nice. if this is to happen - and we are only at the beginning of this possibility - it would be linked to the belgian presidency and to your name, mr verhofstadt, and i am happy to congratulate you on this as a preventive measure. there are two reasons for this development, and it is useful to recall them. what has been the effect of this development? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european parliament has played a leading role in this, and it was here that criticism of nice - despite the fact that the formal conditions for enlargement were resolved - was primarily based. we have borne the brunt of this debate for some time. the second argument is that the events of 11 september and all that has happened since then have made it abundantly clear that only a europe acting together can have any chance of being taken seriously in the future and that we must return to the path of development in common. those are the two reasons. we now have the convention we wanted, and with it we also have responsibility for the outcome of this work. we must not overlook this! the convention's outcome will have political weight only if it is supported by the broadest possible consensus. we will therefore have to contribute to the preparation of a draft treaty in the convention which will be supported by a broad consensus. only he has a chance of winning the intergovernmental conference! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, mr president of the council! the european parliament has called for this convention. we got him. this is our success too, and we thank you for making it possible! the convention has - and this has been mentioned here on several occasions - aesthetic flaws, but we can and will ensure that these flaws do not become a burden and that they are forgotten at the end of the work. i would like to add my second point to mr nassauer's. the convention also places a new responsibility on the european parliament. for the first time, institutional reform is also in our hands. we are no longer responsible for the demands and visions we develop here, but also for the compromises and results. this is something new, and we'll have to get used to it! (applause from the centre) thirdly, the convention has been given a broad mandate, as we wished. this is both an opportunity and a danger. the convention must not become an extended intergovernmental conference, but it must not degrade itself to a mere forum for discussion. the convention must work towards a broad consensus and focus on the strategic reform proposals that open and set the direction for future developments. fourthly, for the first time the word 'constitution' appears in an official council document. that's a lot. it is not certain that a draft constitution will be produced, but one thing is certain: the convention must direct all its work towards what might be called, after the great european philosopher immanuel kant, the categorical imperative of the convention, i.e. that each of its proposals must always be able to become an elementary part of a european constitution. after that, he's got to work. fifthly, europe is becoming more important, but it is becoming less and less of interest to the citizens. they are not yet against the european union, but they are not quite sure why they should be in favour of it. we want the citizens of europe to know once again what we are uniting europe for. the european union must stand for a european model of society and a european vision of the world. it is a question of europe's economic, political and, last but not least, cultural self-assertion, of preserving a european way of life! since 9/11, another dimension has been added to this. the union can fail in this new challenge, but it can also grow from it. no, i'm sure she'll grow from this challenge! (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i have to go. laeken has opened the door to a draft constitution which can be drawn up on the basis of the community method. the mandate is appropriate, the procedure is appropriate, it is up to the convention itself to bring about something like this. i cannot share the criticism of the composition of the bureau either, because i believe that the people who are leading it are people who will no longer follow anyone but have their own ideas of a future europe. there is a great opportunity in that too. we should not be complaining about age when behind age there is independence, which can be brought in considerably. i think it is extremely important that the technical conditions be created in this area. it is essential that the secretariat be provided by the council, but that the commission and parliament may be involved. i believe that it would be a generous offer from the council to involve the representatives of the secretariat of the commission and parliament in a really balanced and equal way, in order to create appropriate working conditions on this basis. sometimes the technique at the beginning is crucial to the content output at the end. the european council is certainly one of the most reform-worthy undertakings, and that is why it is a start that the european council is focusing on big things. if he does this, like the creation of the convent, he is successful. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council has already made a number of recommendations to the council, and i would like to ask you to take them into account. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the belgian presidency has undoubtedly made a great effort, but for important, urgent decisions the 15 governments of the european union lack a european spirit of community which cannot be overcome by a single presidency. the brilliant analysis of the situation and the many questions listed could have been taken from the european parliament's reports on nice, the post-nice period and laeken, and they seem to have been copied there. these are questions which parliament has been urging for years to be answered for the future of the european union. are you questioning everything again? let us take the example of the right to vote. since july 1998, the council has been examining the draft european electoral law for the elections to the european parliament, and by the end of 2001 - two and a half years have passed - it had not yet reached a conclusion. he asks the question: do we want european voting rights? the convention is certainly an opportunity, but unlike laeken, we in the european parliament are calling for a single, coherent proposal as the sole basis for negotiation and decision-making. it is also regrettable that decisions to adjust the structures and functioning of the council have once again been postponed by the heads of state or government to barcelona and seville. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
