mr president, i would like to continue with the debate on thursday. i would draw your attention to the agenda for thursday, which states that the debate on the reports will continue after 5.30 p.m. until 6.30 p.m. the report i have drawn up for the itre committee on the competitiveness of the eu's forest-based industry is unexpectedly on the agenda. the report will be followed at 6.30 p.m. by a vote on this report, which concerns the jobs of four million european workers and the competitiveness of this industry and related industries. i think that the planning of thursday's sitting has now run into very big problems because friday's sitting has been cancelled if we are to discuss a report like this at 5.30 p.m. on the employment of four million people. i know there's only a few dozen people left to vote. it is a humiliation to parliament that we should be speaking on such a large report with such a small number of members. i would therefore ask that only urgent matters be voted on in the thursday evening part-session and that the votes relating to these specific reports be put on the agenda for the next part-session in brussels on thursday evening.
mr president, mr bolkestein, ladies and gentlemen, the initiative to simplify the legislation on the internal market is one of the most important processes currently under way in the union. at least my party in finland, the national assembly, made streamlining legislation and abandoning the needless drafting of directives one of the main objectives of the last european elections. i believe that there are many other people who also value this. the commission's communication on the current state of slim is quite satisfactory, but it is far from sufficient. it is essential that the commission is able to convert the proposals for the third and fourth phases of the project into clear legislative proposals as quickly and effectively as possible. the six-month deadline proposed by the rapporteur should also be taken seriously. i warmly support the rapporteur's proposals to give greater consideration to the users of legislation, our policy-makers' customers, when preparing concrete proposals. only such co-regulation, i.e. a convergence of approaches to co-regulation, can fully serve the rapid development of the european internal market and ultimately ensure that consumers also benefit in practice from legislative projects and the introduction of the euro. of course, proposals alone are not enough, they must also be able to be processed quickly in both parliament and the council. there is a debate in parliament from time to time on speeding up the legislative process. we in the committee on economic and monetary affairs are particularly looking forward to the lamfalussy group's proposals for new policies which will be applied in future, at least in the area of financial services legislation. although the lamfalussy interim report was not yet very detailed, it does suggest that the working party is considering a procedure whereby only the major line issues would be decided by the full codecision procedure and the so-called fast-track procedure would be used for other amendments to the directive of a more technical nature. i am in principle in favour of such proposals, although it is notoriously difficult for us parliamentarians to relinquish power. i believe that in certain respects the abdication of power is inevitable in order to remove the last remaining obstacles to the internal market as soon as possible. the final position of my group and myself will of course depend on the nature of this fast-track procedure. in any case, the procedure must not be a copy of the current comitology procedure, which is in dire need of reform, particularly as regards transparency. this is what our rapporteur was referring to. so as regards the general development of the legislative process, i am also looking forward to the commission's white paper on governance, which will be prepared for the gothenburg summit. what the commission proposes in this paper will determine the speed with which new legislative proposals are dealt with and, in any case, the efficiency of the union as a whole for a long time to come. i hope that this paper will also receive good and concrete proposals, but i hope that slim will also receive some more support.
mr president, mr commissioner, education is becoming more and more central to the european strategy. the lisbon summit conclusions stress the importance of education both in improving competitiveness and in preventing social exclusion. it is only natural that the quality of school education should also be given attention at the level of the union, even though the organisation of education is the responsibility of the member states. we need european cooperation and encouragement in all areas of education. in many eu countries, systematic assessment of the quality of education is still in its infancy. in finland, for example, the provisions on this subject were introduced into school legislation two years ago. the report on the subject, which was completed in helsinki last week, shows that the evaluation is not yet sufficiently systematic, although it has been launched quickly. the report notes, among other things, that primary and secondary education do not take sufficient account of the cooperation between pupils, their parents and the education providers. i'm sure you'll want to keep in mind the students and the homes. training cannot be seen from the narrow competitive perspective. you have to give room to different talents, but you have to make sure that you keep up with the rest of them. education has a key role to play in building an equal and integrated society. well-organized education means that the resources of nations are put to the best possible use. i believe that schools should be designed so that every child who enters the school year can experience success. therefore, quality assessment cannot be limited to narrow performance indicators. after all, education is not just about acquiring knowledge and skills but also about developing the whole personality, including a healthy sense of self. it is positive that the common position on the evaluation of the quality of school education is ready for adoption so quickly. the rapporteur, mrs sanders-ten holt, commissioner reding and the council have a lot to be thankful for. we are making good progress on this important matter.
mr president, the court of auditors' 1999 report shows that the united kingdom, belgium and the netherlands have been major net contributors to the eu budget. these three countries have a much higher balance of customs duties, or own resources, in the budget than the other countries. these countries have large ports and a lot of so-called transit traffic passes through them. when you read the documents of the court of auditors and the garriga polledon report, there is an embarrassing element. in many countries, abuses have been exposed, but the names of the countries are not mentioned. it is therefore suspected that the highest number of offences occurred in countries with large ports of transit. if no country is mentioned, the uk, belgium and the netherlands are suspected. if they are not guilty of crime and protecting criminals, they are nevertheless suspected when the names of the countries are not mentioned. the european union is the gateway for large volumes of goods that are transported from the port to outside the union. the investigations carried out by both the court of auditors and olaf have revealed significant abuses, particularly in the import and transit of tobacco. the scale of the damage is so difficult to assess that estimates of the damage to the union range from eur 1 billion to eur 5 billion. tobacco arrives mainly in dutch and belgian ports and is transported from there via eu countries, often to the territory of the former yugoslavia, including montenegro. the eu decided last year to provide €15 million in political aid to montenegro without any contraband conditions. every night, 50 or 70 speedboats take the smuggled package from montenegro to italy, where it is distributed on the eu market free of customs duties and taxes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this phenomenon. from the union's point of view, this is a multi-billion euro project.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague, mrs bushill-matthews, for her report, which she has drawn up with great expertise. although smes already employ two thirds of the total workforce in the european union, the sme sector still has employment potential. the role of start-up support and venture capital in job creation is very important, as some studies show that smes spend up to 80% to 90% of the funds raised on the venture capital market on hiring workers. we must strongly support smes with growth potential, regardless of their sector of activity. greater attention must also be paid to facilitating the internationalisation of enterprises, so that smes can fully reap the benefits of the internal market. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i fully agree with the rapporteur that the commission should be able to report more rapidly on the progress of this important initiative in the future. feedback from the users of the fund should be included in future commission reports in order to allow for swift action to be taken on irregularities. finally, i would like to draw attention to the provisions designed to facilitate the return of bankrupt entrepreneurs to business. the fact that the risk of entrepreneurship for such entrepreneurs has once been realised in a negative way does not mean that this will continue to be the case. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the people of europe. i would also like to emphasize the importance of small firms for the competitiveness of europe's large enterprises. small firms often subcontract to our euro-mammoth companies, and thus the role of small firms is even more important for the competitiveness of europe as a whole.
mr president, commissioner, on behalf of the liberal group, i would like to warmly thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. thank you very much. i would like to draw attention to a couple of points in this short speech. the report takes excellent account of the problems of young farmers, and particular attention is paid to social problems. this is good, for in most cases young men are more eager to continue farming than young women. the problem is the so-called 100-acre solitude. agriculture needs to be sustainable, especially with regard to generational change. the average age of european farmers is alarmingly high. generational changes must be economically feasible. we must encourage young people to become farmers. but there are not enough young people to start. it would be very important to get young people to continue in the important professions for all of us. young farmers are highly skilled and use modern technology without prejudice in their work in the fields and in livestock farming. they are also able to take advantage of the latest information technology in their design. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the decisions and measures proposed in the report are largely national, which is good for flexibility. the eu can and must play its part in promoting policies that encourage young people. bureaucracy must not be allowed to stand in the way of developing the position of young farmers.
mr president, we have now received assurances from various quarters that information will be given and that matters will be dealt with openly. until now, that openness has been lacking. it is natural that we must have information as a basis for our action, but i agree with the views expressed here on the application of the precautionary principle. our next item is to discuss rapid reaction forces. in this context, we must clearly take a stand on the way people treat their health, even if we do not see a direct link with, for example, leukemia. it is very possible that other harmful effects, for example in relation to drinking water, will be in the long term. can we assume that while we are doing good by resolving conflicts, we are also causing a lot of anxiety and insecurity in the future for the civilian population?
mr president, human rights are an integral part of the values and legal basis of the union. they are also universal, despite some differences in emphasis. however, the eu does not have a human rights strategy with primary responsibility for the member states. when there is no strategy, tactics become strategy. in the case of human rights, it means that political expediency may dictate where and when violations of human rights are addressed at any given time. to some extent, it is inevitable. however, a community based on respect for and defence of human rights such as the eu should be able to pursue a more consistent and determined human rights policy than is the case today. it would be desirable for the union to have a common voice in this important area. it is therefore welcome that we have now had the opportunity, well in advance, to discuss the priorities of the council at the forthcoming meeting of the un commission on human rights. human rights violations must be taken seriously, even if they are not used as political pretexts. human rights have a value in themselves which is obscured when they are used as instruments to pursue other, perhaps legitimate, ends in individual cases. or when their gross violations are hushed up for trade policy or other reasons. this trend is also reflected in our approach to the issues on the agenda of the un commission on human rights, both at regional and national level and in the field of issues of concern. for example, the suppression of freedom of expression or the torture and impunity against which amnesty international has recently campaigned would merit to be raised in a more comprehensive way. ad hoc action is not enough, but human rights must not be a mere rhetorical sweetener, like a political nutrasweet, without real practical effect. the eu must find its own coherent line and consolidate its work in this area if it is to make its voice heard and heard more effectively. the cooperation between the institutions should therefore be stepped up in the future and the role of the european parliament in particular should be strengthened. above all, we in this parliament should also be active and make good our own rhetorical commitments. it requires long-term, systematic engagement in human rights work, even when it is not related to immediate interests or current media events. reporting and monitoring must be strengthened, which requires, in addition to goodwill, adequate resources and diplomatic capacity. ngos and civil society are invaluable. they can also bring a breath of fresh air into the cesspool where we are too busy being held hostage by narrow daily interests.
madam president, president of the commission, president of the council! i choose to speak swedish today because it is the second native language of my country. mr president of the council! i think that the expectations for the swedish presidency are very high, after our experience with the french presidency. i am personally convinced that sweden will once again confirm the rule that the smaller member states are often more impartial, which favours the common european interest over narrower national interests. it is your first presidency and your ambassador - if i may say so publicly - has very nicely compared a first presidency to losing your virginity. he didn't want to lose it violently. i can assure you that the european parliament can facilitate a presidency and so you will lose your virginity in a very gentle and kind way. my group particularly wants progress in the following areas. sustainable development must be a reality now. it's now or never. in gothenburg, the objectives and indicators must be confirmed in accordance with what you have said. civilian crisis management is something that can be promoted under a swedish presidency. the prevention of conflict in all areas of foreign policy is very important to our group. we welcome your promise of a programme in this area. something that may not be so clear on the swedish agenda is a comprehensive reform of the eu's agricultural policy, based on the fact that our food must once again be safe. no more damage to the environment and no more suffering to animals. i have followed the swedish debate and have learned that you, mr president-in-office, have suddenly discovered that you are actually a vegetarian, or at least a part-time vegetarian. i may be allowed to welcome you to the club. mr president of the council! here you may find an opportunity to surprise yourself and the swedish people - in some areas, more europe is needed, not less. environmental taxes are a clear example. everyone understands that unanimity must be dropped in this area. the community approach is needed here, i.e. strong common institutions - the commission and parliament - instead of the intergovernmental approach, as my colleagues have also pointed out. the governmental cooperation method largely consists of meetings behind closed doors, with no parliamentary control. it's not going to lead to the kind of openness you want. i would call this a swedish paradox. you have to realize that transparency requires that you abandon the governmental cooperation method. after the nice summit, it is important that we start a comprehensive reform of the eu, involving the non-national parliaments and the european parliament. i hope you will accept the challenge that the president of the commission has put to you. (applause) i would like to thank you.
i welcome the swedish presidency with all my heart, mr president, although one cannot be too envious of them in the circumstances in which they are taking over the presidency. the summit is perhaps the most chaotic in the history of the european union. the council has always been concerned with the ratification of the treaty, and this is not a good indicator of the workings of the summits or the council. it is therefore very welcome that the swedish presidency has indicated its desire to reform the council's activities in a more transparent way. the programme for the swedish presidency is full of ambition and it is indeed time that environmental issues in the broader context are finally brought into the centre of the debate in the european union. the eu's sustainable development agenda, adopted as part of the rio+ process at the gothenburg summit, should include all the sustainability elements that have been prioritised for the eu presidency. i think all three of these e's are the guarantee of this durability. but i am a little concerned, and i am now addressing the commission, about the timetable for preparing for the gothenburg summit, for example. how is it possible, in this timetable, for the european parliament to be able to participate fully in the preparation of, for example, the sustainable development programme? but i want to thank the presidency for including the northern dimension. and again, the commission is being asked how to ensure that there are sufficient resources, for example human resources, to ensure that this policy of the northern dimension is also pursued by the commission.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done. our group supports the adoption of the report with amendments. at present, intermodality is expensive due to friction costs, inefficiency, infrastructure deficiencies and, in part, the preference for road transport. the report and the commission communication also set out a number of actions which could be supported to increase the volume of intermodal transport. the new technologies must be effectively exploited, inter alia, in the context of the growth of e-commerce, so that the appropriate route and services are available for different situations. i would also like to emphasize that this mode of transport is the most efficient mode of transport for long distances. priority shall be given to the development of transport in remote regions and areas with serious shortcomings in the area of trans-european networks. the development of collection and distribution systems in congested areas is of key importance.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr costa, for his excellent work. thank you also for the interesting seminar, which dealt with the subject with enlightening examples. i think it is important that this matter should now be discussed in parliament. the report is based on the very correct assumption that users pay for the costs of building and maintaining transport infrastructure. the pricing of transport infrastructure must take into account the cost to society, but also the principle of affordability and the need to support remote areas. the importance of pricing in transport infrastructure as a means of control will increase in the future. the pricing system should therefore be sufficiently flexible and dynamic to provide incentives for the introduction of new technical services. however, when planning combinations of taxes and charges, care must be taken to avoid double taxation. there are still many problems with pricing. the total cost can be covered by fees in areas with high traffic volumes. however, conditions vary significantly from region to region, so that the same pricing criteria do not apply everywhere. the long distances, the sparsity of population and the difficult natural conditions must be taken into account when defining the pricing instruments, as the report states. i think it is important that impact assessments are carried out before pricing instruments are put into practice.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i would first like to thank those who helped to postpone the debate on this report so that we can speak and vote on it this afternoon. if the report had been dealt with only in the evening, it would have been insulting to the four million workers directly and indirectly involved in the forestry cluster. this sector accounts for one tenth of the eu's industrial output and one third of the world's forestry output. we all know the problems that will arise from this day onwards in the thursday evening sessions of parliament. during the examination of the commission communication, it has become apparent that the forestry cluster is highly heterogeneous. publishers and printing companies use paper and other products of the forest industry, but many of them consider themselves primarily content producers. in addition to the use of paper, which is the hallmark of the content industry, there is also a new electronic reality, electronic communication. the report also hopes that the commission will take account of the specific features of the competitiveness of these new sectors. the report recommends that the security industry be included in this cluster. turf has a role to play in the forest-based industry, particularly in the nordic countries and ireland. the report does not address the issue of whether peat is renewable or fossil fuel. but when it is produced industrially, these producers must also have a place in the eu administration. the rapporteur believes that the report contains too many conclusions on forestry management, which is what the committee wanted, even though parliament has already expressed its position on forestry in the fairly recent thomas report. there is no need to add anything to it, but its conclusions should be implemented more actively in the commission than at present. the commission should also carefully examine the conclusions drawn on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development in pesala. the forest cluster represents an open sector of the economy operating in a globally competitive market. i therefore cannot accept the amendment by mr schierhuber and mr rübig, which would put forestry under the responsibility of the directorate-general for agriculture. agriculture in the eu is not used to operating under open sector conditions. the same problem also applies to the amendment tabled by mrs ainard. i think mrs flesch's amendment has been taken into account in the text adopted by the committee, not least because of her own amendments. the specific needs of the content industry are dealt with in depth in my report and i therefore consider this amendment unnecessary at this stage. wood is a renewable resource. there are many options for its use, including in the energy industry. the report endorses the principle that forest products should be used for energy production only at the end of the production chain, after they have no other useful use. the member states are the best experts in the management of their own forests. the multiple use of forests, their role as carbon sinks and their preservation for future generations are best achieved by applying the subsidiarity principle and there is no justification for increasing the commission's powers in forestry. it has important responsibilities in safeguarding the competitiveness of forest-based industries. the european forestry cluster will succeed in tough competition if the rules are the same for everyone. if the exploitation of nature and man is not allowed in europe, it should not be allowed in any other country. many forms of wood exploitation can improve employment, especially in rural areas, and for this reason forests are also part of the eu's employment strategy. science and research must find new uses for wood, for example, using grass as a cell would free up wood for other uses. these are the kinds of things that should be promoted in the new research framework programme. the use of wood as an environmentally friendly and healthy material can be increased in construction. and finally, if the forests are healthy, so are the people. (applause) i would like to thank the
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. - mr president, mr commissioner, on behalf of the committee on agriculture, i should like to begin by warmly thanking the rapporteur, mr seppänen, and the committee on industry for the excellent report and the good cooperation. the commission has prepared a well-received communication on the state of the global competitiveness of the forestry industry. this document has brought forestry issues into a much-needed debate in the eu, which unfortunately happens too rarely. the committee on agriculture is generally satisfied with the approach taken in the draft report by the commission and parliament. in our own opinion we would like to stress the importance of profitability in the whole forestry chain, including forestry and logging, as the raw material base of the forestry industry, since the european sustainable forestry economy is still based on the so-called 'family forestry' and the activity of 12 million private forest owners. the international climate conference in the hague has failed. the committee on agriculture has followed the climate change process very closely, as we believe that the importance of forests is not being taken into account enough in the review of the kyoto protocol. forests and all wood products are huge carbon sinks; their importance in this respect must be acknowledged. the eu has a weak coordination of forestry. there are several headquarters dealing with matters, but there is no coherence. the environment has been increased in staffing, but the directorate-general for agriculture, which is responsible for forestry, is operating at a very low level of resources, as is the directorate-general for industry. that is why i support amendment no 1 by mrs schierhuber, on behalf of the ppe-de group. i also want to support, in particular, amendments nos 3 and 4 to the opinion of the committee on agriculture. our committee adopted them by a wide margin.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, and the commissioner, and the honourable members, for the typical and unremitting work he has done on this report, which is a comprehensive description of human life in a wooded area. we have a third of our land covered by forest, and when you bring in our eastern neighbours, there's even more forest. this forest-based industry does employ two and a half million people, which is no small thing, and as we know, it accounts for one tenth of industrial production. i think that when we calculate the amount of carbon that is bound to forests, we must also take into account the amount of woodland that was planted and managed before 1990. otherwise, this decades of work is not taken into account when calculating the greenhouse gas emissions counterweight. for then it is only those who have destroyed their forests and are now hurriedly trying to plant something after having destroyed them for centuries who are rewarded. those who have been properly planting trees for decades, who have lived off the trees and know the delicate balance between them, are being punished because there are member states where there is no place to plant a tree unless you start planting it on the roof of your own house. that is why paragraph 17 of the report is very important. forests and seas are the main sources and stores of carbon dioxide, and it has been found that the soil in the forest is even more capable of absorbing carbon than the forest itself in the north. but, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that we cannot grow the seas, we can only grow forests from these two elements. the forest will give us peace. it's an increasingly entertaining factor, and i think it's going to do well for nintendo, and it's going to create an ecological balance. wood is sympathetic even to the dead, and it can be leaned on, whether it's cold or warm, and the stone only warm. the use of wood therefore needs to be diversified, especially now that we are at a stage where communication is increasingly moving away from wood-based paper. i would suggest that the commission should include in some appropriate document the ideas for the multiple use of wood as a whole, because we are in such a state of flux in wood-based production at the moment. now we're changing the basis of our operations and inventing new ways of doing things.
i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr seppänen, on his excellent and cooperative work on this important subject. the commission also deserves credit for a new type of communication, which looks at one industry in its entirety from the point of view of global competitiveness. the report, in its present form, is comprehensive. the committee added to this the objective set during the portuguese presidency of having the most dynamic and competitive economy in the world, including the forestry sector. our group supports the views expressed in the report and most of the amendments. we have made some amendments ourselves, and we ask for your support. i would like to mention in particular amendment no 3, which stresses the importance of small and mediumsized enterprises. at its best, the forestry sector can serve as a model for other sectors in how to exploit renewable natural resources, how to tie climate carbon to products and how to supply the chain in an environmentally sustainable but economically viable way. in this sense, wood construction should be even more prominent. it is also important to recognise the importance of forestry in the less developed regions and in particular in the rural areas in difficulty. this is particularly true in the area of employment. the union should therefore be more effective in future in developing small businesses that use wood as a raw material, among other things.
i would like to thank the commission and mr seppänen, who drew up the draft report. as a member of the committee on the environment, i am particularly encouraged by the way in which the report has taken account of the ecological and, in some cases, even socioeconomic conditions in a market-based industry. i would like to draw attention to the problem raised in the second paragraph of the report. the report calls for the security industry to be included in the forestry cluster. the claim is well founded. as regards the eu's energy policy, it supports the achievement of a number of objectives which the union is seeking to pursue and which it has just expressed in the green paper on energy. turf strengthens our alarmingly declining energy security and energy independence, promotes combined heat and power generation and brings with it synergies in the energy use of wood and peat. insofar as peat grows annually, it is clearly also a renewable energy source. furthermore, peat has many positive regional and employment effects. overall, peat should be compared with wood rather than, for example, with coal, which it is now incorrectly included in the eu classification. the regeneration of peat is an indisputable biological fact. the peat is continuously produced by the intermingling of the vegetation and the production of bark. it is produced in a very similar way to other plant-based biomass, such as wood. however, the time required is longer. according to recent scientific research, peat should be distinguished from fossil fuels, which take millions of years to form. due to its origin and renewable nature, peat is a biomass fuel, but because it is renewable at a much slower rate than other fuels, a new third category should be created between fossil and rapidly renewable energy sources. it's a slowly renewable biomass fuel. burning peat, like wood fuel, is undeniably responsible for greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere. the kyoto protocol does not include emissions from wood burning in the country's emission ceiling because carbon bound to the wood would be released in any case when the wood is decomposed. studies on the carbon balance and gas cycle of peat have also emerged in recent years, the results of which suggest that a reassessment of peat combustion emissions should be carried out, taking into account the overall gas balance of peat. speaking of turpees, it's good to remember the scale. the area under energy use is very small compared to the area under forestry and agriculture use. in the northern protected areas, the total peat harvest is less than one promille. the economic use of peat is, however, important in areas with high salinity. for example, less than half of the annual growth of peat in finland is used annually. so the principal is not touched, because the interest is enough. the report calls on the commission to strengthen the coordination and consistency of sectoral community actions affecting the forestry cluster in order to improve competitiveness. in particular, this need for coordination and consistency would seem to be valid for peat, and one important step along this path is to change its classification and status to reflect its true nature.
- mr president, it is positive that the draft law on the khmer rouge trial in cambodia has been adopted by the national assembly and is due to be signed by king sihanouk after it has been considered by the constitutional council. the format of the trials has been agreed between the un and the cambodian government. as the cambodian judiciary is still fragile, trials are organized with the participation of both international and local judges. the khmer rouge regime almost completely killed the country's legal profession, and the country has not had time to develop a new professionally functioning judiciary. the international community has expressed concern that many perpetrators of genocide go unpunished despite the law on trial. this concern is justified. those who caused the destruction of the cambodian state and the untold suffering of its people must be held legally accountable for their actions. however, in addition to this principle, the requirements of the future and stability of the country must be taken into account. i was able to witness firsthand last summer how ordinary citizens seek forgiveness so that life can go on. it is not always easy to distinguish between victims and perpetrators. we must be careful not to re-ignite the cycle of large-scale revenge. although cambodia's problems and its bloody history are still relatively recent, the country has been able to lay the foundations of a representative democracy. cambodia is the only country in southeast asia to have abolished the death penalty. a friend of mine working in the region said that cambodia is currently the only multiparty system in former french indochina, although much remains to be done to strengthen democracy and the rule of law. while we welcome the new law on the trial, we must be determined to support the positive developments that have begun in the country.
the compromise reached between parliament and the council on the development of rail transport is one of the most important achievements of the finnish and french presidencies in the transport sector. on behalf of my group, i would like to thank the authors of the reports on the railway package, mr jarzembowski and mr swoboda, and also the conciliation committee for their excellent work, which can be considered a real breakthrough in this important matter. our group supports the improvement of the competitiveness of the railways and the liberalisation of competition. the negotiations between parliament and the council have produced a satisfactory package which will give a strong impetus to the development of rail transport. the development of rail transport will remain on the agenda, with the commission's approval of a second railway package, which includes further liberalisation of competition and a safety element. i think that the safety aspects of railways, like other modes of transport, are particularly important. the use and dissemination of best safety technologies must be made a priority. the development of rail transport is essential to overcome the transport problems of congested areas. it will ease both road and air traffic congestion. at the same time, however, it is also necessary to ensure that the trans-european transport networks also reach the less populated and remote regions. as has been noted here, environmental considerations also strongly favour the development of rail transport. the practical implementation of this railway package will be monitored in the future and, in the light of its experience, competition will continue to be liberalised. particular attention shall be paid to the coordination of the different modes of transport and to the transport network as a whole.
mr president, commissioner patten, i too must go out of my way this time and give mr mann a proper compliment. in the course of this year and a half of my mandate as a member of the european parliament, i have come to know mr mann's deep knowledge of transatlantic relations in particular, and this report is also a testimony to that. i agree with mrs ahern, who has apparently already left the chamber, that the report is not political enough. for example, there are very political elements in the explanatory statement, which i was pleased to see. it's not partisan, of course. i warmly support the targeted programme of measures to strengthen the overall trade policy of the eu and its member states. the intensification of cooperation can even be considered necessary in view of the amendments to article 133 made in nice and the many speeches made in favour of a much more far-reaching solution in nice. i also agree with the rapporteur that the post-nice agenda should include a new approach to eu trade policy. the rapporteur's idea of globalisation processes must also be supported, and in particular the idea of my own committee, the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the consolidation of the common competition policy. the deadline for the commission to submit proposals to parliament is also to be welcomed, as is the use of the 'sunset' clause in this regulation. however, these dates should not mean that the commission is not continuously obliged to keep parliament informed of the progress of the action programme. among the measures covered by the proposal, i would like to emphasize in particular transatlantic cooperation projects with the usa. for example, the transatlantic business dialogue (tabd) has, in my view, worked well and has succeeded in preventing trade disputes and coordinating positions in areas requiring rapid reactions. a good example is the world radio conference in istanbul last spring. transatlantic trade remains a vital part of the global economy, and the importance of cooperation should not be underestimated. it must be remembered that this cooperation also has a very strong political element, the basis of which was laid in the new transatlantic agenda signed in 1995. parliament too wants to be involved in this work and has therefore sought to strengthen its relations with the us congress in the context of the transatlantic dialogue, which mr read also mentioned earlier.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs mcnally very warmly for her very good work, because this is a very important matter. we all agree on that. however, the current trend in energy efficiency is not always the best possible. for example, in the case of household appliances, the aim should be to switch off all circuits that consume electricity. but this is not always possible, as the on/off button is often missing from modern appliances, as mentioned earlier, making it impossible to switch off the appliance even if the consumer wants to. many devices have a small red light that keeps on flashing, indicating that the device is still running some kind of circuit and that the device is also consuming some energy. if you think about the non-existent amount of one watt-hour per household for that device, that amount of consumption is going to multiply very quickly. with a thousand devices, you can get to one kilowatt hour, and with a million, you can get to one megawatt hour, and that's a lot more than that. on the other hand, the resting current is a positive thing when, for example, the air in the room needs to be heated. in the northern regions of the union, rooms and houses are heated, so that the heat produced by machines and incandescent lamps saves on heating costs. but on the other hand, in warm conditions, especially in the southernmost countries of the union, where the air has to be mechanically cooled, the costs of the resting current are doubled. the general objective should be to promote the use of less energy-consuming technologies, for example, the use of incandescent lamps should be avoided whenever they can be replaced in the equipment by leds, for example. the commission also has to focus more on consumer information. it is difficult for consumers to think that the purchase price is cheap, but the 'energy-saving' device becomes expensive over time. energy labelling must be standardised so that all consumers, from children to the elderly, understand how much energy a device consumes. the information must be public knowledge. just talking about the wattes tells a lot of people nothing. in particular, manufacturers of appliances shall specify in the instructions for use how the appliance can be used to save energy.
mr president, i would first of all like to say very briefly that the problem is so wide-ranging and so serious that nobody can afford to blame anyone. this is not the time to blame anyone else. no one has been accused of bse by finland, sweden or austria. we have already taken certain measures ten or fifteen years ago, and probably because of those measures the risk of having it is perhaps lower. we do not say that we do not have it, but we have taken the steps that everyone should now finally take. firstly, we should ensure that the decisions taken today are actually implemented in each member state. they are not observed in every member country. it is therefore entirely appropriate that the committee on agriculture should propose a subcommittee to monitor food safety and, in particular, bse and these issues in such a way as to prevent in advance the dangers and risks that exist in the future, especially in view of the enlargement which will bring very large livestock into this community.
mr president, i have a message for you concerning my colleague caroline lucas. he was arrested at 9.30 this morning while in scotland, where he was participating in a protest against the nuclear power plant. he justified his participation by stating that many recent judgments have found such weapons of mass destruction to be contrary to international law. we should not be able to arrest a member of the european parliament on his way to a sitting of the european parliament, and we ask you to take action in this matter. in fact, the immunity of a member can only be withheld after parliament has had a debate on such a matter, and if this were to be discussed now, parliament would be forced to debate for the first time whether nuclear weapons are contrary to international law.
madam president, i would like to thank you. while we thank air france for the flight between amsterdam and strasbourg, i would point out that this was probably due to the flight between copenhagen and strasbourg being suspended. so this time it was "the one's bread, the other's death". i would also ask the president to consider whether air france does not have enough flights because it was held up because of 'technical measures'.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr bakopoulos, for his excellent report. increasing safety is particularly important in maritime transport. our group supports the main lines of the report. the proposed regulation and directive will facilitate the integration of international developments into community legislation on maritime safety. the problem has always been the delay caused by the slow pace of community legislation. the proposal aims to eliminate the above problems. the procedures must indeed be simplified. the merger of the currently separate committees into a single committee on maritime safety is the right measure to clarify the handling of matters. the aim of maritime safety standards is to meet certain minimum requirements and the advantage of the prior checking procedure in the regulation is that it clarifies the applicable law and increases legal certainty. it is necessary to ensure that the procedures of the member states specifically for the implementation of international agreements and community legislation on maritime safety can be facilitated. however, the member states' ability to operate in the imo must be safeguarded. it should continue to be the principle that the international maritime organisation (imo) leads the international maritime safety work by deciding on international agreements, resolutions and codes.
mr president, commissioner, the issues of maritime safety and the protection of the marine environment have been very much in the spotlight since the erika accident a little over a year ago. although the erika wreck was a disaster for european shipping, it has also had many positive consequences. the publicity generated by the accident and the increased political pressure have led the commission to step up its monitoring of union maritime legislation. the commission has also been able to submit to parliament and the council, in a very short time, a number of legislative proposals to improve maritime safety. i would like to thank you, mr commissioner, for this active approach, as do the other members. i would also like to thank you for your initial positive attitude towards the creation of a thematic network on short sea shipping, which is a very important initiative undertaken by amrie. the union already had a very comprehensive legal framework for safety on board and prevention of pollution from ships before and, in particular, after the erika. the truth is that the erika accident probably never would have happened if all the rules that were in place at the time of the accident had been properly followed and enforced. the commission proposal to replace the existing committees on maritime safety with a single committee should be supported. at the same time, responsibility for maritime safety policy will be more clearly assigned to a new committee. the new committee will therefore monitor and, where necessary, improve the implementation of legislation and take an active role for the union in the imo and other international organisations. in the context of the amendment, the commission reserves the right to assess whether any change in international rules is detrimental to european maritime safety. i also support the commission's proposal on the proposed procedure in this context. it is particularly important, however, as the rapporteur rightly emphasizes in her report, that parliament be guaranteed adequate rights to participate in the regulatory procedure.
i would also like to congratulate mr savarya on his resolute work and on the success of his report on this important but difficult subject. this report, together with the reports on the liberalization of the railways adopted last week, represents a breakthrough in the development of european railways. it was launched during the finnish presidency, which was successfully continued by france. improving the competitiveness of railways is essential to alleviate congestion on roads and at airports. the development of rail transport is also a step towards more environmentally sustainable transport. improving the interoperability of the rail system is a necessary prerequisite for the success of the whole railway package. the matter has been delayed far too long, but now mr savary has managed to untie this difficult knot. there's still a lot to do, but we're off to a good start. our group supports the savary proposal to adopt the council's common position as it stands. it has taken account of parliament's main amendments and will thus make a rapid progress on the proposal. at the same time, it must be borne in mind that the interoperability of rail networks is a long-term project. it is therefore important to set a timetable for the implementation of the work and to define the networks to be given priority. i would also like to thank mr savary for his understanding of the special needs of finland. the compromise reached on the use of russian carriages in traffic between finland and russia does not jeopardise the objectives of the report, but ensures the smooth continuation of traffic on the eastern border of the union. i believe that the significance of this solution for the whole of the union will become apparent when the vast natural resources of north-western russia are actually exploited.
mr president, mr president of the commission, in the next few years, as the union expands to include the countries of eastern central europe and the baltics, our relations with our eastern neighbours outside the union will become increasingly important. the union's greatest potential opportunities for strengthening peace in the region and for gaining new economic partners lie in russia and ukraine. unfortunately, this is not yet the case in the union's activities. we are happy to blame the fact that these countries do not yet have the economic conditions or the political will to find suitable forms of cooperation. but a considerable amount of money and resources have already been invested in cooperation in the southern mediterranean, although there the results are still waiting to be realised. we need to be long-suffering in the east, too. i did not notice that the president mentioned our relations with the east in his report, which was perhaps impossible in the context of a broad review. in recent years, the union's financial contribution to russia has been one tenth of what is spent in the mediterranean region. all the countries of the former soviet union have been allocated half of the mediterranean for cooperation. the ratio is not at all equal to the importance of these neighbourhoods in relation to each other. in particular, economic cooperation must be concrete and feasible. the wastewater of some nine million people in and around st. petersburg is being discharged, either untreated or through poorly functioning facilities, into the ecologically vulnerable shallow, low-salt gulf of finland. already this has caused bad, permanent changes in the balance of nature, and the situation continues to worsen. president prodi called for sustainable environmental development. the leningrad region waste water treatment plant would be a good concrete example of the northern cooperation area which should now be launched.
mr president, my group is also in favour of this debate really looking at the key priorities and of letting go for a moment of this business as usual approach which we are facing in our day-to-day work here. i would like to begin by saying that the central problem is that the union is lacking the instruments with which it can act in a way that is truly capable of responding to the challenges of, for example, increasing globalisation, and the instruments with which it can protect its citizens from the chaotic effects of this globalisation. i would just like to point out that the nice summit was not able to decide that in future taxation matters would be decided by qualified majority. this means that we leave this tax area to market forces. we are allowing market forces to shape our tax system, and this is of course a major obstacle to our being able to build what we call here the european social model, in which we want to guide the development of society through taxation. there was a mention of population growth. it is quite clear that we must fight the growing racism very strongly, because we cannot otherwise deal with immigrants and asylum seekers. we all have a great public responsibility here. mr president, very often in this chamber strong words are spoken about citizens. we have said many times here today that citizens must be involved in decision-making, but unfortunately this is very often forgotten when it comes to practical matters. let me give you a current example. the institutions are currently working on a transparency regulation to safeguard the right of citizens to be informed about the union's decision-making process. i would like to warn my colleagues and all those present that it now seems that this transparency regulation is becoming more of a regulation protecting the confidential activities of the institutions, in other words, quite the opposite. we cannot accept this and we also need more public debate on this. we cannot talk about this entirely behind closed doors, as is happening at the moment. mr president, sustainable development was mentioned in the opening speech by president prodi and this is the very central objective of my group. if we fail to achieve a real sustainable development agenda in gothenburg, we will have missed an opportunity that may not come again. this is where the commission must show leadership and vision. but it seems that even in this practical situation, there are always problems. today the commission is to publish its white paper on chemicals policy, but i have reason to believe that the commission's approach here too is more about protecting the short-term economic interests of industry than ensuring that dangerous chemicals are actually disposed of. this is something we cannot accept, since we are talking about sustainable development. environmental competitiveness is something that should be taken seriously and the commission should rather listen to companies and economic operators who have realised that sustainable development can also be good business. the major reform of agricultural policy is under discussion and we want to encourage and demand that the commission adopt a comprehensive approach and not just take small steps, and here we have a real paradigm shift. finally, madam president, if i may, annex iv to the nice treaty is probably the best thing that this treaty has. it is a great responsibility for this parliament and the commission, and also for the council, the swedish presidency, that we take seriously the fact that we are reassessing this method of building the european union. my group fully supports your initiative that we must involve civil society in this debate in the next six months before the laeken summit, and also, of course, the national parliaments and, of course, the applicant countries. i am sorry to hear that my colleague, baron crespo, here, wishes to stress that we must first of all be content to listen to the national parliaments. no, yes, civil society is something real. we must finally take it seriously and we should not see any more intergovernmental conferences where only national interests are safeguarded and all this has happened behind closed doors.
mr. speaker, i have to say something. commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i think that many people were quite concerned when harbour called for a review of the directive within 18 months. so, are we going to get all this lobbying back again? i think it's going to be a little quick. best friends of all time. everything that can be said has already been said about the directive. that's why i'm having a little trouble getting the words out. i would like to express my sincere thanks to our wonderful rapporteur. i would also like to say that the liberal group's official line at first reading was more balanced than that of the majority in parliament. we therefore also find that the common position should be substantially amended. at first reading we were concerned that the majority in parliament was jeopardising the functioning of the internet - that a system was being created which also made it unattractive to have material online in europe. these days, the results of the human genome project are being published online - in the journal nature and in the journal science. through nature, anyone can access the material, but through science, you can only access it by paying $3. this is copyright protection. but is it to promote the spread of science and knowledge? where is the right balance? i think we should take this into account when we take a position on the directive. i would also like to point out once again that the official position of our group is now to have as few amendments as possible. the common position is a fragile compromise which should not be shaken, because then we may not be able to sign the wipo agreement, which is the most important thing.
i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that the result is good for parliament. i also think it is very important that the process has started from the adoption of the existing legislation and the conclusion of these voluntary agreements. in fact, on this basis, it is possible to envisage new agreements with companies in the future. the areas where the legislative framework is intended to achieve environmental objectives more rapidly and perhaps more effectively need to be clearly defined. now this proposal extends the 1993 scheme to include various organisations with an environmental impact. we're not just talking about industrial companies anymore, which is good. environmental activism is important not only for the environment but also for the companies themselves. today's consumer is increasingly focusing on the environmental impact of products in their own consumption decisions. it has been rightly said that the effective implementation of this system requires the commitment of staff to common values. this in turn requires that workers be given information but also the opportunity to contribute to the development of environmentally friendly activities. it is essential that joining the environmental management system requires a commitment to regular environmental declarations, certified by independent experts, and to their publication.
mr president, the workplace is the most important means of preventing exclusion. the european union has little scope for direct action on employment. the so-called luxembourg process, with its annual employment reports and the transfer of best practices and examples, is a very good attempt to strengthen cooperation between member states and to increase the effectiveness and transparency of action. the luxembourg process, which is investing in new technology, is a major step forward in the process of putting europe on the road to growth. the measures to promote employment must therefore be concentrated where the greatest added value can be achieved, namely in education, research and the introduction of new technologies as a means of growth, and in particular as a means of sustainable growth. we will achieve equality by providing public social services which will also enable women to participate fully in the labour market.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr swoboda, for his excellent report and the committee on foreign affairs for its substantive report. the regulation under discussion concerns preaccession aid to turkey. turkey has been accepted as a candidate country at the helsinki summit. for this reason, it would be appropriate for us to treat it in the same way as other applicant countries. the eu financial perspective has a heading 7 reserved for pre-accession aid. it's about three billion euros a year, which is a lot. however, in the eu budget, pre-accession aid for turkey, cyprus and malta is allocated to heading 4 'external actions'. in this way, they are in fact in a different position from the other applicant countries. in addition, the same objective, i.e. pre-accession aid, is now financed under two different headings, which obscures the budget's transparency. title 7 'pre-accession aid' has been underused. the payment appropriations are far behind the commitment appropriations, and there is therefore a clear over-budgeting, which is realised as unused resources that are returned to the member states. in contrast, heading 4 'external actions' is overloaded. for two years in a row, the budget has had to be financed by a flexible instrument, which is in fact parliament's own reserve for unforeseen expenditure, at a rate of eur 200 million per year. parliament has therefore assumed greater responsibility for eu foreign policy than the council. the budgetisation of pre-accession aid for turkey, cyprus and malta under heading 4 has further increased the overburden and jeopardised the availability of these funds. i therefore support the report's proposals to transfer these funds to heading 7.
mr president, i am in the same situation. i would also be interested to know if there is a limit and where that limit is, where the advantage is so great that it is worth abstaining from such an important vote.
madam president, i would like to thank you. this concerns amendment no 32 which says 'may use works' in english and 'access to' in swedish. it is not the same, so i ask for correction in all language versions. it would have been essential to have said this before the vote.
mr president, thank you for your answer. however, i share that concern and i believe that the time for the gothenburg meeting is not too long, given the preparations that have followed the helsinki summit's decision to integrate environmental issues into the various policy areas. in fact, i'm quite concerned about the way this process is going. some who have spoken of sustainable development believe that the aim is to put the environment in a kind of relative position by putting the economy ahead of the environment. i want the council representative to tell me your objectives in this matter. the sixth environmental action programme is currently being prepared by parliament and this should be the ecological pillar of this sustainable development programme. are you going to insist that this is really the way it is, or is this ecological part just a conversation?
mr president, mr commissioner, the eu is about to have a single currency and, as a result, a single currency area. the eu is also to be made a common area of science and thereby a scientific superpower. in many areas, the eu is already a scientific superpower. however, not all results and methods will be shared, since many large countries have their own national, commercial and military interests to protect. they should be more open to other people's projects. if this does not happen, the eu is not a true european research area and eu funds will only fund the leftovers and the stars for which national funding is not sufficient because of the lack of public relevance of the work. we use the word zero-scale research in finland. it means research that no one needs, uses, criticizes, or continues. the european research area must not be a zero-sum area and eu funds must not be used to finance zero-sum research. the problem of the lack of quality control of the use of eu funds, which would thoroughly assess scientific achievements, must be solved. it is feared that the return on investment is scientifically poor. it is possible that the jrc represents more bureaucracy than science. it is therefore necessary to require that the common research area be developed in accordance with scientific criteria. i would like to thank mrs plooij-van gorseil for her thorough work in the itre committee. the report calls for the union of science and the equipment industry.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr plooij-van gorselil, for his very good work. i also thank the commissioner for his very thorough report. information is the most important factor of production today, and the need for information is knowledge, and it is subject to substantive requirements. so this is how it differs from information. the technological innovation and the technological clout in society are slowly receding as the emphasis on content is increasing, and with it the content industry. we are moving from a kind of information society, hopefully, to a society of culture and values, and these guidelines have indeed spoken of a european research area. i think it is right, and they say it is a structural modifier. well, while you're at it, i'd like to make a few suggestions. the change that is already taking place should lead to the creation of a project group within the framework of the european research area to help develop content, content production. there's a lot of work to be done in europe. the second pillar is structural change, namely the globalisation of trade and communications. it's the great game changer of our time and the great research challenge. it would require research, because it affects all of us. we need information because trade and communication have replaced politics on a global scale. i would therefore like to see the role of social research increased. i would like to ask you, finally, what you are going to do to make the research on globalisation more powerful and to give us politicians more weapons to think about this issue.
in writing. - i believe that this debate should never have taken place in the european parliament. i therefore voted against the resolution.
i voted against the bullmann report, mainly because i believe that we must be clear if parliament's opinions are to have any value. we cannot be in favour of a host of new indicators and additional statistics while warning that statistics do not solve problems but create new ones. the parallels with the planned economy are too clear when it is considered that the commission must steer economic development by means of numerous economic and social indicators. i would rather see the stockholm council focusing on liberalization and dynamic deregulation. it is important to stress that politicians do not create jobs. at most they can contribute to a better climate in economic life.
mr president, the european parliament has been in favour of extending the eu-asean agreement to laos since the beginning of the week. the report states that the protocol is part of a wider process by which the union is seeking to promote political, economic and social growth and stability in the country. the human rights situation in laos has much room for improvement. it is appropriate that its human rights be dealt with in parallel with increased cooperation. we have paid a great deal of attention to burma in this parliament. things aren't much better in the neighborhood. laos is one of the poorest countries in the world. it's a place that has all the negative aspects of a one-party system. there is little sign of an increase in freedom of expression and the liberalisation of political life. in october 1999, a demonstration against the government was held in front of the presidential palace. no one's seen the participants since. amnesty knows to tell you that they were arrested and they've been languishing in prison camps without trial. thongsouk saysangkhi, who died in prison in 1998, was part of a group of three ministers and a senior official convicted of treason that sought to change the government from within. despite the human rights problems, the international community has sought to support laos' development. the eu has given 120 million euros in aid, the us has given 23 million and japan has given 132 million dollars. the people of laos, who live in extreme poverty, need help, but the situation inside the country raises the question of who really benefits from the aid. there are unfortunate examples of projects that benefit the military and the government rather than the local population. laos is a country rich in natural resources and, under democratic conditions, would have real opportunities for development. the resolution also calls on the commission to take action to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. these are the objectives that really need to be emphasized.
mr president, the supplementary and amending budget is a sad read. it literally means that €700 million of eu funds are to be burned, because that is the amount that is used to buy risky beef for disposal. the worst thing is that the bse crisis is a serious threat to the balance of the eu budget. in this supplementary budget, some of the expenditure is already being financed in a hopeful way, on the assumption that the euro-dollar exchange rate would bring about considerable savings. i think this is mostly wishful thinking. but the most serious thing is that even now the margin on the financial perspective is in danger of being completely eroded. after the presentation, the margin will be eur 506 million, or just over 1% of the total heading. however, we can safely assume that the demand for beef exports outside the eu will explode. consumption has fallen in many large countries, reflected in rising stocks. since a permanent decrease in consumption is expected at least in the next few years, efforts should be made to export stocks. this is no longer possible under the current financial perspective. in this case, there is a fear that other agricultural expenditure will be cut. the reduction in other agricultural expenditure could easily mean a reduction in the income of individual farmers, i.e. the cost of the crisis on the individual farmers. we must remember that the bse crisis was not caused by farmers. they have been using legally approved feedstuffs in good faith, which have been shown to be toxic. therefore, the responsibility must be shared and not placed on one group of the population. i'm in favor of splitting the cost.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the biggest change in europe is of course the networking of networks, and it is particularly political because citizens' participation in it is becoming more and more dependent on their income level, sometimes even on their place of residence. moreover, the very citizens who are left on the wrong side of the digital divide are already marginalised people. the objectives of an e-europe and civil society will therefore not be achieved without online services helping people to connect and organise themselves. we need a basic amount of telecommunications time for everyone so that they can use the services of the telecommunications and information society free of charge. it would be a major addition to civil rights. this is how we can operate in a networked society, and we don't create an elite network. the auctions of radio frequencies are estimated to have cost up to eur 170 billion. of course, this large amount of money was noticed in political circles and was shared with society. and on top of that, the timing was unfortunate. the united states economy was declining, and the union decided to build a europe that includes all its citizens, which is the central part of our strategy. this auction policy is working against them, because now the prices of telecommunications services are going up. investors have begun to withdraw from the sector and the production of next generation networks, equipment and services is slowing down. and that's going to lead to more problems, because the stock market of a lot of operators has collapsed. the commission's proposal for a framework directive, like the other provisions in this package, is straightforward and balanced, and i thank you for that. the framework directive is a development for the regulation of the whole telecommunications sector. this will reduce the number of provisions to less than one third of what it is now. the most surprising thing is that it is precisely the telecommunications sector, where goods move across borders at the speed of lightning, that does not have a unified european market. on the contrary, the same eu provisions have been interpreted in many different ways and excessive prices have been maintained in many regions. the emergence of genuine competition has been impeded by a number of leverage schemes. as the telecommunications sector has expanded, the cost of services has become an increasingly important factor in households and the economy as a whole. some large companies in the sector are in favour of competition elsewhere, but not really in their own territory. the larger the market and the stronger the company, the more effectively it can compete against smaller and new entrants, i.e. in those other markets. in my own proposal i have increased the scope for action of the national regulatory authorities and supported the improvement of resources. at the same time, i propose that we increase transparency in our activities. the national regulatory authorities are certainly the best to assess the situation in their own markets, but i believe that the commission is the best to assess the telemarketing market in the union as a whole. i also believe that if the commission had had the powers to act, the current scale and type of auctioning policy would hardly have been implemented. the commission must act when the common rules on road haulage are not respected in a member state. it is essential for businesses to be able to operate on the same terms throughout the union. the commission's action also avoids the need to set up a separate pan-european regulator. since the auctioning principle can be extended to other bottleneck resources and new generations of mobile networks, i now ask the commission to submit to parliament a comprehensive study of the impact of auctions on the position of telecommunications companies and consumers. the second essential sector is the definition of significant market position. the committee on the environment has extended the concept in the light of recent developments. according to our appendix, significant market power also arises where the undertaking has the continuing ability to restrict the access of other operators to users. the same applies if the company is active in several parts of the production chain and has a significant position in one of them. we consider that several undertakings are dominant in a market where they can, even if without saying a word, agree on the market turns to be applied to others.
mr president, the telecommunications companies are telling us to regulate the market by competition. can we rely on competition as a regulator of the market? we can't. while phone rates have fallen in many countries, not all have. in finland, for example, local wireless prices have increased by a quarter in recent years. in addition, consumers are unable to find out what mobile calls to the network or landlines of different companies cost. we live in a jungle, where pricing is governed by the laws of the jungle. the lion's share of profits is taken by multinational operators seeking dominance. unfortunately, the governments of some member states of the union are acting like tarzan, king of the jungle, with limited resources and new frequencies in his hands. the centre-left governments of germany and the uk have auctioned off mobile phone umts frequencies to telecommunications companies in a way that is driving these companies and many banks into crisis. the bubble of thinking that was based on belief in the miraculous power of information technology has now burst. the eeurope project has been sabotaged by auctions. the auction system has undermined democracy. the auction is gonna drive the price of the phone to the sky. the auctions are a tax on the free flow of information and knowledge. could all this have been avoided if the eu had had a framework directive on telecommunications? i hope so. but there is no certainty about that. but now we must try the framework directive, which paasilinna has done a huge job of preparing. he rightly calls for an examination of the economic impact of the auctions. our group supports this demand. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. it is based on the values and interests of certain european monopoly companies. they are incompatible with a democratic information society.
mr president, the telecommunications package is approaching its first destination. passions for each other will provoke a lively discussion. the rapporteur, mr brunetta, mr niebler, and in particular mr paasilinna and mr van velzen, have done a great deal of work in building compromises, and i thank them for that. the definition of dominant position has been the focus of particular attention. the balance now achieved is a clear message to the council, which must also take it into account. the commission was at one stage expected to override the national supervisory authorities, but this did not happen. the national regulatory authorities need to be given flexibility and strengthened in their role in view of the cultural differences. the commission is above the national regulatory authorities, and its role must therefore be to monitor the general rules of the game. the current distortive roaming charges must be able to be addressed. my written question last year was about the obstacle to competition caused by roaming charges. the open internal market must be respected. the role of virtual operators is still a subject of wide-ranging debate. it is necessary to consider the conditions under which a virtual network operator can operate on the network in order to allow free competition and to guarantee the benefit of consumers, while safeguarding the rights of the network operator. we are in a very two-pronged situation, and i doubt that we will find a solution to it just yet.
in writing. - (sv) the brunetta report contains many valuable elements. this text is very favourable to the commission's rapid action with a view to the approval of a single standard for digital television reception equipment and decoders, which is particularly important. parliament also supported by a large majority the introduction of unified rules for services which will complement television in the future. interfaces and software which would link the consumer to a particular supplier will have to be banned. i do not think it is a good idea to ask the authorities to ensure that the prices of roaming and call termination services are based on the real cost and to require that the price of calls be displayed in real time on the screen of the handset. the latter proposal would amount to setting up a far too detailed regulation.
in writing. - (sv) i think it is inappropriate that the directive on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services has provided for additional qualification criteria for cases where member states may collect rights of use for radio frequencies. such additional qualification criteria could risk limiting the ability of member states to design an intelligent radio spectrum policy. that is why i voted against amendment no 21. i also think it is inappropriate to have established, through amendment no 27, that the administrative fees for licences are not based on the services offered, or the geographical coverage offered by the provider. this restriction could have a very negative effect on the activity of small companies.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are also problematic and poor working conditions in korea, and devaluation is taking place. it can therefore be concluded that the subsidy does not create healthy competition in the shipbuilding sector either. it would be difficult if the aid system were to return; this korean bomb would be created here in the union if certain types of vessels were supported and others not. we must therefore avoid this too, so that new problems within the union do not arise. it was interesting to hear about the plans. i think we need to move quickly to get a wto resolution to this dispute. commissioner monti, what are you doing, apart from using the opportunities of the sixth framework programme, in this acute and very important work for all of us in this very technical and modern field?
- mr president, this has been a very difficult and long process and it is not over yet. this can now be seen as a precedent, which of course raises the question of how all the other ball sports and individual sports should be treated in the future and how their rules should possibly be changed in the future, because each sport is different and these age and training limits are very different. can this now be considered a precedent for them? i would also have asked about the evaluation of training and its monetary value: how is volunteering defined, what monetary value can be calculated for it? thirdly, can purely national sports, which are not played or enjoyed in any other country than one member state, continue to be governed by their own rules, or should this precedent be expected?
- mr president, mr commissioner, the committee on budgetary control is currently discussing the discharge to be given to the commission for 1999. it's a difficult one. the ec court of auditors has not considered that it could recommend it. parliament bears a great political responsibility if it grants a discharge; before that, it must be guaranteed that fraud is prevented and the perpetrators are found. there are unfinished business that speak against the discharge. the commission knows what they are. the committee on budgetary control has presented the commission with a detailed explanation of the ambiguities. the most important case is the so-called fléchard case, which has political roots dating back to the early 1990s. we must extend the investigation from the delors cabinet to the prod commission. we have forged export documents, forged butter, lost minutes, imposed compensation, forgiven, and continued to cooperate with those who committed fraud. still some things are kept secret. that's not gonna work. mr bösch is right: this is the moment of truth for the prodi commission.
- mr president, the commission's report under consideration illustrates the wide distribution of eu funds. at the same time, it shows the extent to which the member states are involved in the management of the eu budget, since they account for 80% of all expenditure. mr bösch has produced a very good report and i should like to thank him for it. the report also highlights the importance of the creation of olaf in 1999. in the fight against fraud, i think it is important to keep in mind certain principles. first, the principle of legality: the use of funds and the resolution of doubts must be in accordance with the law and the outcome should not be foreseen until the legal decision is in force. administrative simplification is needed: adding bureaucracy and controls will not endlessly improve the use of resources. the commission's reform is key to increasing personal responsibility and improving cooperation between the european union and the member states, which will also be key in the future.
the rapporteur. - mr president, it is customary to say thank you at the beginning, and i, as rapporteur, have every reason to do so. the directive on access to environmental information was already a good and ambitious proposal when it left the commission. during the process, we have had a great cooperation and have been able to understand each other's goals. the council representatives - i refer to the french and swedish representatives - have also been encouraging and well informed. i also thank the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection for their attitude, i was very pleased that all 25 of my own amendments were adopted in the name of the committee, and that the committee members also made important additions. this is a report which is relevant not only to the individual citizen but also to the community's environmental policy. access to information is a major horizontal tool in eu environmental policy and the directive has been long overdue for reform. the proposal for a directive has three main objectives: to draw on the experience gained from the old directive dating from 1990 and to correct the shortcomings identified in it, to incorporate the relevant parts of the aarhus convention into the new directive and to adapt the old directive to developments in information technology. the most important points in my report are, firstly, the obligation to set up registers. that is a precondition for the operation of this directive. the citizen must know which documents are available and which authorities are handling the case. i was pleased to note that mr cashman, in his own report on transparency, also demands the same thing. i also refined the details of the denial. however, if a request for access is refused on the grounds of incompleteness, the applicant shall be informed of when the material will be available and who the authority responsible for the matter is. the second clarification on the refusal of access concerns the exceptional cases referred to in article 4 (2). the exemption for information held in the form of trade or industrial secrets is that the release must always be disclosed. i have tabled an amendment to require that emissions be reported even when other types of data are protected. the harmfulness of emissions does not depend on the nature of the activity which generated them: for the health and safety of citizens, there is no difference between the source and the public or commercial entity. i thought it necessary to make a whole new article on the quality of environmental information. the quality of the directive is of course a key factor in assessing the relevance of the whole directive. in my examination of this directive i have come across the fact that comprehensive harmonisation of emissions measurements is not required in this respect. of course, it does matter whether you measure emissions at the end of a pipe or a mile away with a butterfly's-eye. in other words, the measurement method must be indicated. one difficult question in this directive concerned the definition of an authority: do the provisions concern a so-called classical authority or also a body to which an authority's task has been delegated, such as a company which, under a contract with the authority, retains information which is required by law? we have now found a format which hopefully will be acceptable to most member states. there is a great deal of agreement on this directive. i have rejected amendments mainly for stylistic reasons. this is a framework directive and it is not intended to wish the world all the beautiful and detailed good that can be hoped for from openness. as a legislative text, it is also likely to be more effective if it remains scarce. some members of the committee have wished to tighten the time limits for the authority's reply. the commission proposal reduces the time limit to one month and, if the scale or complexity of the matter so requires, to two months. in all cases, a response is required as soon as possible. i still consider this a realistic objective and in some cases shortening the time limit may even have a negative impact on the quality of the reply. that is why i do not support the committee's proposals for a blackmailed position. taken as a whole, this directive can be considered to set the standard for member states in terms of transparency of environmental information. the amendment i have made to article 8 (2) is based on the idea that the same standard should also apply to the eu institutions. this directive thus contributes positively to the promotion of transparency throughout the eu.
- mr president, i would like to join in the congratulations which have been paid to the rapporteur in this debate. i can say that this is a good example of the fact that the committee is really going to the end of its work and is bringing to the plenary a proposal which is almost unanimous and in which disagreements, as in this case, are kept to a minimum. i would like to emphasize that this is indeed a very important reform, which was initiated by the aarhus treaty. the rapporteur has now drawn up a report on the implementation of the first task of this treaty, which relates to the right of citizens to information on the environment. the next two are the right of citizens to participate in decision-making and the right of citizens to seek justice in a situation where they are being treated unfairly. it is important to stress that we are not asking the authorities to show goodwill towards the citizen, but that this is an inalienable fundamental right and the citizen must be able to exercise it without being asked to justify why he wants this information. i myself have been closely involved in the preparation of the cashman report and, having read the korhola report, i have wondered whether it would be appropriate to add a clause to the cashman report stating that environmental and health data cannot be classified even if they are treated as trade secrets. it is possible that much environmental and health information will be kept secret from the public if such a restriction is not made.
- thank you for your answer, commissioner! it is obviously too early to draw any conclusions, but i believe that some progress could certainly be made, both in cooperation on methods of learning languages and in the preservation of the unusual languages. i know that the commission is aware of the difficulties that exist today in cooperation to preserve the minor languages and i hope that the commission can use some of the experience gained to preserve and develop the cultures and languages that belong together.
- mr president, the directive is important for the eu, both in terms of the environment, energy production and competitiveness. up-to-date limit values for large power plants are needed in both member states and applicant countries. it is therefore necessary to express our sincere thanks to the rapporteur, mrs oomen-ruijten, for her difficult task. the committee's common position sets much stricter limits without adequately distinguishing between institutions according to their size and nature. the one-off investment in new technology required by the directive is the same regardless of the size of the establishment. the situation is particularly threatening for the combined production of electricity and heat which has been recognised as environmentally friendly. in my own country, for example, this might be an ecological step backwards. in finland, concern is shared by several different bodies, including the ministry of the environment. the amendments by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection would mean investment that is cost-effective in relation to the ecological benefits and would make it more difficult to use energy-efficient wood and peat together and to produce electricity and heat together. the latter is mainly produced in medium-sized plants, which would now be treated as large ones. the use of peat is justified. it will contribute to the increase of wood use in power plants, as co-incineration improves combustion control, reduces corrosion problems and provides certainty in fuel availability. this objective, which is directly related to biofuels, is also not supported by the report. it could even be said that, in some of the amendments, the report is guilty of environmental greed and is therefore in danger of choking on many important environmental objectives. however, it is important that the report is adopted and the directive is put into effect, because it will help to prevent the long-range transport of emissions and the acid deposition in the nature of another member state. our own group is seeking, among other things, to ensure that combined heat and power production in small and medium-sized power stations can continue, while forcing the large ones to invest in technology that implements stricter emission limits. the compromise also aims to avoid unjustified investments in the combustion of ultra-low sulphur peat compared to higher sulphur fuels. this is contained in amendment no 36. we are very grateful to oomen-ruijten for agreeing to these compromises. once again we are in a situation where the legislator is faced with the fact that different environmental conditions also mean different environmental impacts. if we can't solve them, the last, but not the best, straw is probably our own directive on northern dimensional fuels.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all the members of the committee for the constructive discussion of this directive in committee, and i would also like to thank the secretariat. we are in a somewhat peculiar situation in that the committee has even been able to improve the first reading result a little bit at second reading, thanks to the amendment adopted - thanks again to the members of the committee - which combined the best aspects of the first reading and the council's common position. we have therefore set ourselves quite ambitious targets for the emission ceilings by 2010 for the plenary. the last common position took very limited account of the results of the first reading of parliament. on the contrary, in its own vote the committee has clearly wanted to support the result of that first reading, so we now have a good and objective position for tomorrow's vote. i hope that this position will be successful tomorrow as well. this directive aims to reduce emissions of certain air pollutants, namely sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds and ammonia, so as to achieve a long-term level of safety for human health. this is done by setting intermediate targets for 2010. these intermediate targets will result in a halving of the areas where critical acidification loads are exceeded, a reduction of two thirds of the health-related ozone load and a reduction of one third of the ozone load above the critical level for vegetation. unfortunately, however, these decisions do not yet meet the objectives adopted in the community strategy for acidification. the report by the committee on budgets, which is now before us, therefore sets a backstop for 2015 when the critical loads should no longer be exceeded and a target for 2020 when the critical levels should no longer be exceeded. the proposal also includes a requirement for a review in 2004. the review aims to give us a better head start towards 2010, to see if we are on the right track and what we can do to achieve the objectives. the proposal for a directive under discussion sets requirements for member states to reduce air pollutants to a level safe for health, but member states can choose the means to achieve these results. the greatest threats and therefore the most challenging issues for the member states are emissions from energy production, and in this sense the oomen-ruijten report just discussed was the most relevant and i really hope that we will get the best possible result in the vote tomorrow, because it has a direct impact on how the emission ceilings of this directive can be achieved. other concerns are industry and transport. industry is the only one of these that has been able to reduce its emissions over the last decades, while transport seems to be only increasing its emissions. so something must be done about them in the member states. traffic is a real challenge. we must be able to reduce transport, we must be able to change our behaviour so that we favour less polluting alternatives, rail and public transport, while supporting technological developments which affect the cleanliness of transport in other ways. finally, i would like to say that the cost of this directive has been overestimated in various contexts. if we take into account what has already been decided, for example in the kyoto agreement, we can cut the costs by half. if we compare the benefits of this directive to the improvement of health, the benefits are many times greater than the costs.
- mr president, mr president of the commission, i fully agree with the previous speaker that acidification, fertilization and the increase in soil ozone levels are problems that we must tackle effectively throughout europe. effective national emission limits should therefore be set for the main pollutants. after long and difficult negotiations, the council reached agreement on national emission limits. the commission, for its part, supports the council's common position. a common position in the council would mean a significant reduction in emissions. it may not be as ambitious as parliament wanted at its first reading, but it may be the best compromise possible in this situation. unfortunately, our committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has come up with some proposals which are so significant and ambitious that if they were to be implemented they would jeopardise the consensus reached. in this respect, i agree with the views expressed earlier by mr davies. when the first reading of the ep in march last year was devoted to emission limits, i stressed that new targets should not be set until the previous ones had been achieved. the commission must continually monitor the progress that is being made in all member states and promote measures to help industry make the necessary changes. it is important that environmental objectives are achieved as cost-effectively as possible. that is why mrs jackson's question is more than appropriate. as valuable as the committee on the environment's tightening of the emission limits are, we should be aware of the possible adverse effects of our wishes and our voting behaviour. delaying this directive and having to go through a lengthy mediation - a poker game like the one we were talking about - would certainly be the worst option for the environment. moreover, the environmental benefits of the restrictions would be very small compared to the costs.
- mr president, mr wijkman has done a valuable and meritorious job in preparing this report. this is a very important issue, since we are talking about protecting the environment and at the same time ensuring energy supply. a member state which wishes to steer its emissions in a cleaner direction by means of taxation must be considered as being in solidarity with the union as a whole and with our common environment. we must ensure that the distortion of competition is not encouraged in the name of free competition at the expense of environmental protection. a member state that manages its co2 emissions responsibly, for example, must not be in a situation where those producing energy from fuels that are correspondingly more polluting are given a competitive advantage over it. on this basis, the harmonised environmental taxes are justified. the example i have described above illustrates a clear distortion of competition. this scenario may lead in the long term to the fact that environmental considerations do not become a determining factor in energy policy decisions. there is a risk that, in the event of liberalisation of the electricity market, member states that meet their emission obligations may lose their electricity market to countries that do not meet their own obligations. the co-generation of electricity and heat is an important issue in terms of energy efficiency. the special circumstances of small and peripheral countries are also highlighted. it must be possible to take account of the specific climatic conditions of the member states at community level. on this basis, i hope that the rübig amendment will be supported by the members.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr lindh, mr president of the commission, mr prodi, the objective set for the union in lisbon a year ago of becoming the most competitive and dynamic economic area in the world, capable of sustainable growth, creating new and better jobs and greater social cohesion, is certainly not without ambition. there may be unanimity on the objective, but there are clear political differences in the choice of means and their priorities. we in the group of the european people's party and the european democrats emphasize as the most important means the complete completion of the internal market, the rapid opening up of monopolies such as electricity and gas and the postal service to competition and the genuine opening up of public procurement without the smokescreen of local employment. we stress that the employment objectives are achieved by encouraging entrepreneurship, of which smes are the most employing. we stress that excessive regulation, belief in the omnipotence of excessive legislation and starvation-inducing taxation are the worst enemies of employment. we also stress that an innovative and knowledge-based economy, in which everyone has equal opportunities and the right to move forward and live their lives according to their own goals, requires a much more flexible renewal of the european labour market. it's precisely our lack of flexibility that separates us from the more efficient u.s. economy. another way to increase efficiency is to further strengthen our education systems by making them more flexible to the needs of individuals. we must have institutions run by society, but also private ones, so that there is competition both for students and for the supply of different educational courses. we also believe that the modernisation of the european social model must regain lost momentum by developing a less dependent approach to publicly funded collective solutions to maintain social cohesion. if you want to become the best economy in the world, you have to ask questions. has the us economy grown because of restraint, overtaxation, ostensible protection by legislation, artificial maintenance of unproductive jobs, restrictions on competition, or attempts to increase federal bureaucracy? no, not really. quite the opposite! have sweden, and why not finland, succeeded as an it country and a leading growth country in europe because they have regulated more and more? it is not because in the last decade and a little before that, both countries have invested in education and research and, under bourgeois governments, have reduced the public authority. has ireland succeeded in regulating? no, it has liberalized and supported foreign investment with tax breaks, doing so well that we have to even dismiss it for its success. the keys to better employment are simple. they are the aforementioned, not the well-meaning but ineffective means of guardianship, control and planning that our socialist friends emphasize. the european parliament must, however, express its common concern to the commission and the council at the stockholm meeting. the gap between the objectives set and the measures taken to achieve them is widening day by day, although there are differences between countries. the council must deliver swift results in continuing liberalisation and improving the business climate, especially now that we are clearly moving towards a us-led period of uncertainty with falling stock prices and a weakening of confidence among businesses and consumers. if faith goes, good relationships go, and who will guarantee us better jobs, better education and greater social cohesion? the lisbon process is not the only place where the european machine is failing. although the tampere decisions on the area of common security have been left behind in the debate, their implementation is experiencing the same, if not worse, slowdown than in the lisbon process. but without effective crime prevention, there can be no real internal market and no schengen area. the functioning of the internal market also requires a certain degree of functioning, efficient and safe air transport. at present, two countries, spain and the united kingdom, are able to torpedo the development of aviation safety and efficiency by arguing over the insignificant gibraltar airfield. it is hard to believe that the same countries are now advising on how to resolve the crisis in the balkans or the inflamed situation in the middle east. i also thank - like our president, mr poettering - mr lindh for the very constructive approach to the stockholm meeting; i could even welcome mr lindh to our group when your term of office comes to an end, it was such a speech we liked. and now i will switch to the second official finnish language: minister lindh, we need measures - inte bara tal om målsättningar!
- mr president, commissioner, it must be rather boring to listen to these speeches here at this time of night, especially when we are so unanimous. i'm sure there's a lot of repetition in these speeches. i too believe that the group of wise men led by baron lamfalussy has done an exceptionally thorough job. the group of wise men's proposals form a coherent whole and also contain practical concrete measures to bring about the system. it is often rare in politics for such clear statements to be made, and i would like to thank this group for that. we in the european parliament fully share the view that the regulation of the securities markets must be developed more efficiently and more rapidly. this is the demand we make if we want to achieve a genuinely functioning european internal market in the financial sector in the next few years. we can never achieve the ambitious lisbon objectives if it takes ten years to reform one single financial market directive, as has been the practice under the current system; for example, look at the ucits directive. however, parliament cannot be blamed for these shortcomings of the present system. parliament has taken its role as the second legislative body of the european union seriously and responsibly. we have shown, particularly in the current parliamentary term, that securing the influence of parliament and adequate democratic control are not incompatible with the requirements of speed and efficiency. the main task of parliament is to define the political core issues, not to play with the bouquets. the delegation of technical legislation to the committee to be set up is therefore not a problem for us in principle. it's not the bosses who do the secretaries' work, and it's not the secretaries who do the bosses' work. in the codecision procedure, parliament and the council are the bosses and all the other secretaries. this does not, however, undermine the demand that parliament expresses in the form of the so-called call back mechanism. parliament must have the legally binding right to refer the matter back if things go wrong. the parliament is not the only institution that wants to secure its back in this way, the council has also expressed the need to secure its position by means of the so-called aerosol clause. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
rapporteur. – mr president, as you can see, this is not exactly a hotly debated issue in parliament today. when i was given this report in january 2000 i thought it might be quite easy. unfortunately it was not. as soon as we started the discussion in parliament we heard from the commission and council representatives that there might still be some problems in the council concerning this mainly technical initiative. after listening to the council's worries i decided to table some amendments to the commission proposal in order to reach a wide consensus at first reading. i hope these amendments are supported tomorrow by the other political groups. this proposed regulation deals with the reclassification of settlements under swaps arrangements and under forward rate agreements. it enables reliable comparison of government deficits within the framework of excessive deficit procedure. it is of great importance that information on the member states' accounts is comparable. comparison of this information is one of the prerequisites for economic coordination in the union. the differing statistics on unemployment are one of the best-known examples. different ways of compiling, calculating and documenting data on real unemployment renders comparisons between member states difficult. it also renders cooperation difficult. the possibility of reliable comparison of statistical information on the accounts also increases the transparency of our public administrations. transparency is all we demand in parliament. we have a saying in finland which describes three different levels of lying. the different levels are: lies, big lies and statistics. i hope that we in the european parliament can prevent this from applying to statistical information within the union. the commission proposal initially gave rise to concerns in the council working group. the majority of the delegations expressed reservations about the proposed reclassification as it could lead to changes in the level of government deficit within the framework of the excessive deficit procedure. the proposed change would result in the effects of swaps and forward rate agreements issued by the national debt managers being excluded from the calculation of net borrowing or net lending by the public sector. i essentially agree with the commission proposal, as amended along the lines suggested by the national statistical experts and the council working group. the ecb has also approved this system of two definitions, even if they would prefer legal acts with only one definition for important statistical indicators. excluding swaps and forward rate agreements from the deficit calculations under the excessive deficit procedure would indeed place an unnecessary constraint on the market activities of the national debt managers. swaps, forward rate agreements and other financial derivatives may, in some cases, reduce the cost of government borrowing and are, as such, useful tools for debt management. i introduced separate treatment for swaps and forward rate agreements, thus paving the way for a first reading agreement on this dossier. my personal view is that i would not like to take this dossier to second reading or to speak on this issue again in this chamber. i hope this issue will be swiftly dealt with, not only in the sitting tomorrow, but subsequently in the council. the technical nature of this issue should make this possible.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the european council adopted the union's strategy for ukraine in helsinki in december 1999. now, a full year later, we can say that the basic line of the strategy is correct. the report adopted by the committee on foreign affairs, human rights and common security and defence policy therefore only makes proposals relating to and supplementing the implementation of the strategy. in my report i have adopted the same general approach as that adopted by parliament in the report by mr oostlander as the basis for the union's policy towards russia. the report therefore criticises ukraine directly for its shortcomings in the implementation of democracy, human rights, freedom of expression and the market economy. the council also recommended that the union should step up cooperation to help ukraine to solve these problems. but ukraine is very different from russia. ukraine is of key strategic importance both for russia and for the west. ukraine is divided internally. the western parts of the country have long been part of poland or austria-hungary, and they have a relatively small russian population. the central and eastern parts of the country, on the other hand, have long been under russian influence and are home to a large russian population. the union must work to ensure that ukraine can integrate and have balanced relations with russia on the one hand and the west, the european union and nato on the other. ukraine has adopted a clear european approach. here we must encourage and support it. in my report i have tried to place ukraine in the wider pan-european context. i have taken as a starting point the positions adopted in the report by mr elmar brok on enlargement, which, in paragraph 56, reiterates the idea of a new european area based on a market economy and free trade, environmental protection, democracy, human rights and security. paragraph 57 requires the council to develop a comprehensive pan-european policy for the union by combining enlargement on the one hand and the union's bilateral and multilateral external relations on the other. it also suggests that the eu should systematically use both the council of europe and the eec to prepare current and future candidate countries for membership and to promote the objectives of the common foreign and security policy and integration at the pan-european level. these passages are somewhat open to interpretation. it is clear that parliament wants the union to be given a comprehensive pan-european policy. the relationship of the new european area to the proposal that the union should use the council of europe and the eec as an instrument of its pan-european policy is open to interpretation. my own view is that the creation of a new european area as a separate organisation would easily create overlap with the existing forums. therefore, we should make the most of existing organizations and act without prejudice in this regard. finally, i would like to thank the committee on foreign affairs and in particular the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive attitude to the report. however, i would like to make one critical remark: i think the committee adopted too many amendments. as rapporteur, i drafted a report which was already too long. i think that the 21 points of the draft contained everything that was essential. however, the vote added 37 points to the report - most of them against the rapporteur's recommendation. i think we must work together to find ways of avoiding the bloating and fragmentation of the reports adopted by the committees and the plenary. in view of the above, i reserve my position on amendments which would further extend the report.
- mr president, commissioner, i too would like to congratulate mr väyryssä on the success of his report. the explosive situation in ukraine makes this report all the more timely. the union now needs a clear common strategy for its policy on ukraine. the report provides a strong basis for the strategy. our group supports the main lines of the report. ukraine should be criticised for, among other things, serious shortcomings in human rights, democracy and freedom of expression. there are also problems in implementing the market economy. at the same time, however, closer cooperation with the union is needed to help ukraine resolve its burning problems. the high representative recently recalled that the union's programmes should be focused and prioritised. however, the committee has apparently forgotten this and has blown the report up with many amendments, making it too broad and fragmented. this is also what the rapporteur referred to in his own speech. in the plenary we must cut out unnecessary amendments and concentrate on the most essential. in addition to improving human rights and the rule of law, i also want to raise energy issues. the worst safety problem has been eliminated, with the chernobyl nuclear power plant finally shut down. the community's energy financing must be conditional on a level of safety corresponding to western standards and proper environmental management. ukraine also needs a comprehensive energy plan, to which the government and leadership of the country are also committed. increased cooperation and trade also require the extension of the transeuropean transport networks to ukraine. now the design and implementation of these networks will stop at the ukrainian border.
- mr president, i would like to thank mr carraroa for his competent and timely report. this icann controls the information channels of the internet and determines who gets access to addresses and how. whole nations can be subject to the organization's influence and cut off from information if they do not agree to its rules. business results can collapse if a letter or a period is misplaced. the organization's power now extends to copyright and consumer issues, and its power is growing. but the organization is not controlled by anyone and is not accountable to anyone. it's a curious combination! elections were recently held to replenish the board of directors with nineteen members. of the 400 million eligible voters, 76,000 participated in the online elections. it's a weird game! it is a system that is incredibly undemocratic and has an incredibly important task. the commission has rightly taken action and should do so. but we need more. icann cannot be the governing body of the networked world, the nerve center of the world, with no accountability, run by random people, yes, someone has to be accountable. however, i thank the commission and commissioner liikanen for the diligence with which they have prepared a good document for the stockholm summit at this critical time, as mr carraro and others have referred to. it is an important element, it gives hope to the it sector and it sets out measures to increase the capacity of enterprises and employment and thus the competitiveness of europe.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. parliament has reason to be rather self-critical today. the commission already presented its communication on internet policy 1998-2000 on 11 april 2000 and we know that the icann meeting in melbourne was concluded yesterday. paasilinna, the commissioner and i have had the privilege of reading newspapers which have reported a little bit about what is supposed to have happened in melbourne. if you go to icann's own website, you will find only a scant bit of information about what really happened. has the take-up of the new .bytes, .info and .pro domain names been delayed? is it true that a norwegian company has been given the top-level domain names? how are things going with the eu and the negotiations for our own top-level domain name? many such questions remain unanswered, and it is surprising that there is nothing to read about the case online. the commission and the rapporteur rightly stress the need for transparency in the administration. paasilinna also mentioned that one can be critical in that area. i also wonder what allies the commission has had in melbourne. have we had any representatives at the meeting? how representative can icann be considered? the same question was asked by paasilinna. i think that parliament must benefit much more from the appointment of the former swedish prime minister, carl bildt, to head a panel on the management of icann. so we have good reason to be self-critical. we have reason to reflect on how we have been able to delay the handling of this matter for a year. we need to work faster. the report also addresses many other important issues, including those for the stockholm summit. i would like to add my voice to the words of praise that have been directed at the commissioner for pointing out how the e-europe programme is being launched on the one hand, while the finance ministers are tearing down the foundations of the same programme on the other. i am very grateful that the commission and some member states want to raise this serious issue in stockholm.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. - mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, the committee on agriculture and rural development has been very interested in this forward-looking work. we have produced a statement which is forward-looking and constructive, but at the same time balanced. we want to take account of the principle of safety as regards consumers, farmers' activities and the whole food processing chain. our priority message is that biotechnology is one of the opportunities for developing a struggling agriculture. it opens up possibilities in non-food production for the production of new biofuels, plastics and so on. it allows for the use of fewer pesticides and achieves positive environmental effects. the key for farmers is that they should benefit economically from the introduction of new technology. this has not been the case in the united states with regard to so-called first-generation genetically modified products. the european objective must be that by achieving better quality and efficiency through technology, we also improve the farmers' economy. biotechnology can have a major regional political impact. it provides opportunities for areas where natural conditions are difficult. this also applies to the situation in developing countries. on the other hand, new technologies involve risks that should be recognised as early as possible in eu decision-making. farmers may become dependent on large multinational processing companies. to combat the concentration trend, the eu must ensure adequate public research resources and support the research and development activities of small biotechnology and plant breeding companies. it is very important to ensure competition. our committee welcomes the work of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy and purvis, which took account of our amendments in committee. we would hope that the commission would read carefully the requests made in the report, for example, to measure the net environmental impact.
- mr president, commissioner, it is customary here to praise and thank the rapporteurs. i too agree with mr purvis on one point: the applications of biotechnology will be developing rapidly in the coming years. but it does not require all that industry wants: patenting of naturally occurring genes, free trade in manipulated genes, tax breaks for opt-in programmes for companies and their managers, liberalisation of product labelling, unilateral disclosure and the treatment of biotechnology as an industrial activity, for which the eu has a directorate-general. the purvis report contains many views in this direction and is therefore not acceptable to our group. we want to see biotechnology as an opportunity to open up new dimensions in science. however, the manipulation of nature must be done more carefully than purvis suggests. time must be devoted to the study of all the effects of non-native and potentially non-native species and varieties on humans and other natural systems. we support the development of biotechnology and research in this field must not be left behind by, for example, information technology. the information technology bubble has now burst. we do not want biotechnology to become a new stock market built on false expectations and empty promises. when it comes to the basic issues, the inheritance of people and nature, the responsibility has to be on the politicians, because industry doesn't have it, industry just maximises the value of the shares.
- mr president, we shall only accept the full text of this joint resolution in the final vote by roll-call vote, but there is a small error in the finnish version of this joint resolution in paragraph 17, i.e. paragraph 17 of the joint resolution on the stockholm summit reads in finnish as follows: 'stressing the need for progress in the field of pioneering technology', whereas it should read 'in the field of biotechnology', i.e. it is talking about pioneering technologies, whereas it should be talking about biotechnology. i hope that the final version that is adopted will be correct in finnish.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner bolkestein, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the commission. this communication was so well drafted that we in parliament can be unanimous both in committee and here in the plenary. there has not been a single amendment to my report, which i am very pleased to see. the reform of article 11 of the investment services directive is necessary to remove the legal uncertainty and overlapping and contradictory rules currently prevailing in european investment markets. such uncertainties hamper the successful functioning of the internal market and impose significant additional costs which ultimately fall on european investors. all investors must be guaranteed the opportunity to participate in the internal market for investment services, knowing that european legislation provides appropriate freedoms and, where appropriate, adequate protection. in my report i have taken the view that the best way to clarify article 11 is to apply the so-called country of origin principle to all crossborder investment services. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the principle of origin is applied in all member states. this is a work in progress at fesco. however, full harmonisation is not a prerequisite for the application of the country of origin principle to retail investment services to retail investors. this is in line with the directive on electronic commerce adopted last spring, which member states are required to transpose by 1 january 2002. if these two directives do not have the same starting point, then customers who buy investment services electronically are in a different position from consumers who buy their services through traditional channels. the basic idea behind the investor match is that different investors need different protections and are entitled to demand greater freedoms as experience increases. the european legislators must ensure that professional investors are indeed treated more leniently than retail investors, who need more legal protection. restrictions on the freedom to provide services can be accepted only if they are imposed in the public interest. for example, in transactions between professional investors, rules of general interest should not be required. nor is it possible, as a rule, to restrict the market for reasons of public welfare. in any event, article 11 of the investment services directive must be interpreted along the same lines as article 3 (4) and (5) of the electronic commerce directive. the host state may therefore restrict the free movement of services for the protection of investors only on a case-by-case basis and in accordance with a specific procedure and a list of specific conditions. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the proposal. overly strict classification rules may unnecessarily make it more difficult for investors in the so-called intermediate category to operate in the internal market, especially when this category is being given the option of opting for a higher level of protection when they so wish. the uncertainty also relates to the categories eligible for the benefit of the country of origin principle. the commission should clarify this and propose that, as a matter of principle, all professional investors who have opted for the protection level, i.e. for the lesser protection, should always be able to benefit from the country of origin scheme for crossborder services. the second point which still requires further consideration by the commission is the application of the marketing and advertising rules. the current investment services directive already allows the right to market services in the internal market to be restricted only on grounds of public welfare. in spite of this, many member states have incorporated marketing rules into their business practices. this may result in overlapping regulatory structures. finally, i would like to mention, in relation to the lamfalussy committee's proposal, that the reform and updating of the investment services directives would in many respects be an ideal example of a legislative project to which the new procedure proposed by lamfalussy could be applied. the problems of the current investment services directive have been mainly due to interpretation rights, so ensuring a consistent national implementation of the amended directive is crucial for a successful outcome. so a good and substantive directive is not enough.
the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy has adopted an opinion. mr president, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy is specialised in industrial, foreign trade and scientific research. the committee's opinion focuses on the prohibition of animal testing in cosmetics from these very aspects. it seems that the global cosmetics industry has not been able to produce alternative methods to animal testing as quickly as the european parliament has hoped. the collaboration between industry and the scientific community has not worked, and researchers have not made sufficient use of the eu's fifth framework programme for research to develop alternative methods. in order to speed up the use of alternative methods, our committee proposes a ban on animal testing for both final products and cosmetic ingredients at a faster pace than the commission. as regards the proposed ban on the marketing of products by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, the findings of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy suggest that the ban on the marketing, or sale, of cosmetic products tested on animals may be contrary to wto rules. but it's not entirely certain, because there's no precedent. as a special committee on the subject, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy does not propose a ban on sales. the fact that it is not proposed is a warning to parliament. it may be that the ban on the sale of animal-tested cosmetics outside the eu will lead to wto countermeasures. as the draftsman of the committee's opinion, i see the problem that may arise, but i also understand the position of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection: the limits of the wto must be tested. the european union is a major player in the world economy, and its role in the world economy is not limited to the world economy. our committee also defends the right of consumers to have labels on products which are not derived from animals.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr dagmar roth-behrendt, for his very good and thorough work. i would also like to thank the report for its realism, but at the same time for its strictness in terms of timetables. the aim should be to implement as soon as possible both the animal testing and marketing ban within the eu. the rapporteur has hopefully also found a line in the council which will prompt rapid action by calling for an immediate ban on the sale of products tested on animals. the exception is for products for which there is no alternative to animal testing. the rapporteur rightly points out that neither the commission nor the council have acted effectively enough to bring into force the legislation already in place on the ban on sales. too easily bowed to the pressure of the wto. when we talk about new products, it's worth asking how many new products do we need? do we need the same products, only differentiated by advertising? of course, we must ensure that the products are safe for the consumer. i believe that the responsibility for developing alternative methods, particularly in terms of cost, lies primarily with industry. of course, when we talk about general policies which are important to consumers, community support can also be used. the labelling shall be clear and take account of allergies, particularly in products intended for children.
the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy has adopted an opinion. mr president, the majority of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy has a different view of the many pvc problems and how to combat them than the committee on the environment. the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy strongly believes in the self-monitoring of the pvc industry and its ability to respond to the adverse effects of pvc throughout the life cycle of the substance. as rapporteur, i note that the pvc industry has been very aggressive in its lobbying. it doesn't see or admit to any problems. in this respect, the views are contrary to the spirit of the commission's green paper. the pvc industry does not want to have their views supported by additional research by outside parties. the industry criticises the focus of the green paper on the end-of-life assessment of pvc products. however, this is justified, because problems arise when responsibility for the product has been transferred from industry to society. the public authorities responsible for the disposal and final storage of products must be concerned about the possible harmful effects of pvc. the industry, on the other hand, fears these problems because they may affect the use of its products and alternative products. the committee on industry, trade, research and energy has made an assessment of the green paper which i believe has been largely influenced by the aggressiveness of industry in this area. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu, including the member states, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. as rapporteur, i am in favour of the minority view that the end-of-life problems of pvc must be solved and that the industry cannot do this alone.
mr president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr saccon, for the excellent report he has produced on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the health and environmental problems of pvc are caused by the chlorine released, the stabilizers and the plasticizers. the long life cycles of these products and their long persistence in the ecosystem mean that the extent of the environmental problems can only be estimated at present. however, the amount of pvc waste continues to increase. research is urgently needed, and as mr seppänen rightly pointed out, research other than that of the industry itself. we need unbiased research on harm to prevent the burden on ecosystems and the deterioration of human health. the problems of disposal have been brought to the fore here. the magnitude of the problem is illustrated by the fact that the incineration of pvc can generate even more hazardous waste than the original amount of waste, and because pvc remains in the ecosystem for a long time, the landfill is also a poor alternative for this waste. so we really need research. i think we cannot rely solely on industry's own voluntary agreements. as we have already seen, the measures which follow from the studies must lead to the banning of dangerous substances. we need legislation at european level for this. as european legislators, we must keep in mind the health of our citizens and the protection of natural diversity.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank costa neves and buitenweg for their very good reports. the 2002 budgetary guidelines contain a clear european parliament line on the budgetary policy to be followed. parliament wants to make eu governance more efficient and simpler, to emphasise the personal responsibility of public officials, to improve budget implementation and to strengthen economic development and to promote sustainable agriculture. reform of the commission and improvement of the efficiency of its administration are key objectives. this is achieved by moving towards activity-based budgeting and management. the commission has to take responsibility for its own actions, both in terms of efficiency and economy. the delay must be the responsibility of the individual, as must the smoothness and legality of the money. in this connection, the reports make a clear reference to the slow processing of structural fund programmes by the commission. this issue will have to be addressed in the context of the 2000 discharge procedure. the key to smooth, efficient and accountable governance in the reports is the new financial regulation, whose reform is an urgent measure. the house also calls for the delays and the bottlenecks to be removed. my own group is calling for the clearance of accounts to be effective and for unused commitments to be released after a certain period. the agricultural budget is a particular problem. the margin in its financial perspective has been almost exhausted due to the bse crisis. the idea of saving the agricultural budget, which was discussed in berlin, does not seem to be timely. the bse crisis threatens the entire budget because of the increased need for storage and exports. in this context, however, i cannot personally agree with the public demand made by commissioner schreyer for a cut in subsidies. farmers are the only group in europe whose income level is directly determined by the eu. that is why they cannot be personally blamed for the bse crisis. agricultural aid does not encourage overproduction because it is dissociated from the quantity of production and is based on areas and the number of livestock. it must be remembered that our strongest competitor, the united states, is clearly more supportive of agriculture than the eu. it would be important for the commission to commit itself to the agenda 2000 solution. the key issue for the future is the development of administrative expenditure under heading 5. the council is developing its own military crisis management organisation and has called for 51 new posts in the second supplementary budget of the financial year. crisis management is clearly about operational expenditure. the council must therefore clarify what is at stake, that is, whether the council is creating a 'new commission' for the second pillar of the eu, which would be outside parliament's budgetary powers. as these are clearly non-compulsory expenditure, parliament cannot approve these plans.
mr president, the haug report under discussion deals with a technical amendment to establish a more precise basis for the collection of value-added membership fees. i want to thank the rapporteur for her good work. the system of collection of membership dues is a complex political game, and as a result member states seek to maximise their own benefits and minimise their own dues. although the eu's share of expenditure is defined as a share of gross national income, the structure of the membership fee varies widely between countries. in member states with large ports, customs duties are high and therefore also have a significant impact on membership fees. in berlin, there was a long dispute over membership fees. as a result, eu funding is increasingly being channelled through four funds, namely direct transfers from national parliaments. the increase in the duty cap from 10% to 25% was a clear concession to the large ports. the gap in the eu budget will be filled by increasing the share of gdp. the second change is the gradual reduction of the vat, which also increases the level of the gdp share. this is leading to an increasingly close link between eu membership fees and the budget transfers and gross national income of individual member states, which must now be considered fair. the uk subscription fee will remain open in the future. in the future, enlargement to the east will revolutionize the eu budget. the new member states have a population of 100 million but only 4% of gdp. as a result, the membership fees of the old member states will increase significantly, perhaps even double. the next steps must ensure that the increase in membership fees does not jeopardise the development of the old member states, in particular by increasing regional and social inequalities.
, the rapporteur. mr president, the european coal and steel community is being brought down. it will cease to exist in july 2002, in accordance with previous decisions. the ecsc has been prepared for closure and in recent years has no longer been required to collect tax-like contributions from the coal and steel industries to finance its activities. the ecsc's activities during the last decade were similar to those of a bank. it took out loans which it distributed as loans for the development of the coal and steel sectors. the lenders received these credits as an interest subsidy, the importance of which for the development of the sector cannot be overestimated. the significance of the interest rate advantage has not been examined, but it is likely to be so small that it is fully justified to terminate the operation of the ecsc. in 1999, no new loans were granted and the ecsc's activities were mainly focused on the recovery of loans, repayment of loans it had itself taken out and the management of surplus funds. the commission has been responsible for the operation of the ecsc. in recent years, provision has been made for the end of operations in july 2002. the ecsc would then still have a claim on the credits it had granted, but its own debts would then have to be repaid. after repayment of the loans, the ecsc is estimated to have surplus assets of over eur 1 billion, which will be transferred from the ecsc's own balance sheet to the eu's common balance sheet. these will form a research fund, administered by the commission, as decided in the past. the research fund supports activities in the main ecsc sectors. i'm sure there's no shortage of research. the committee also felt that the impact of subsidies granted to the coal industry by some member states on the competitive situation between the different forms of energy should be examined. the main point made by the committee on budgetary control in its 1999 accounts is that it was not able to assess the efficiency of the commission's management of ecsc resources. in assessing the efficiency of the ecsc's management, which operated as a bank, it is necessary to know the actual return on investment and the share of administrative costs in achieving this return. now, this information has not been available. however, the committee has received a promise from the commission that the commission will provide such information for the year 2000, after which it will be possible to compare the return on investment assets acquired by the commission with any return on the market from other sources. over the decades, ecsc funds have also been used to provide loans to eu staff. this loan portfolio will be transferred to the eu balance sheet and managed by the commission upon expiry of the ecsc treaty. after that, eu workers owe the eu money. it is not appropriate for the eu to act as a bank for the housing loans of its staff. the committee believes that these loans should be transferred to the banks. the committee shall submit this opinion to the commission for consideration in the context of the discharge. i shall return to this subject in the context of the discharge for the coming years. the eu cannot be a housing bank for its staff. in the context of the discharge, the commission's action is thus also assessed from the point of view of administrative rationalisation. the committee has no comments on the actual discharge, since the minor irregularities in the ecsc accounts detected in previous years have been corrected since 1999.
mr president, the court of auditors has not recommended discharge to the commission for 1999 and it has not recommended it in previous years. when the santer commission was forced to resign in the 1997 discharge procedure, despite the support of the socialist group, the gue/ngl group was consistently on the line of resignation. there were too many irregularities and a wrong management culture. the situation in 1999 is different. the responsibility is unevenly divided between the departed santer commission and the new commission. it's hard to share responsibility between them. it is now more difficult to justify the detailed grounds for non-discharge. the committee on budgetary control has not revealed any major irregularities or ambiguities which could not be recovered in the context of the discharge procedure for 2000. when we decide on the discharge for 2000, we know that the present commission is responsible for everything, including the unfinished business of 1999. the majority of our group supports the discharge to be given to the commission this time. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. they're too delicate to be discussed. i agree with the rapporteur, mr stauner, that the framework agreement is not enough to get information from the commission. we must now draw on experience and return to this subject in the context of the discharge for the year 2000.
mr president, the previous speaker, mr garot, said that the disease is gradually coming under control. i hope so. so we have to look to the future. animal diseases are spread by animal movements and therefore cross-border movements of animals should be avoided altogether. there should be no financial incentives whatsoever. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. one problem is the auctioning of animals, especially mules. i think i should give them up completely. in the present technology, animal trade must be carried out directly from farm to farm or from farm to slaughterhouse. i also stress the importance of preventive policy. strict compliance with hygiene and transport regulations is the absolute foundation of the whole agricultural trade and thus of the production chain. the eu must ensure that countries where infections and diseases are not present do not suffer unduly.
mr president, i warmly thank our rapporteur, professor trakatellis, for once again having passed through the committee with great skill a report which has aroused a great deal of interest, is very important and is therefore very susceptible to the hundreds and hundreds of amendments which we have all made. i would like to draw particular attention to the fact that it is rare for committee work to involve so much cooperation between the political groups, and for that i should like to thank the rapporteur without reservation. when mr schleicher criticised this report for perhaps not focusing enough on the essential issues and for having too many well-intentioned points, i can say first of all that the final result could have been much more eloquent. there could have been many more different desires. i think the rapporteur has taken care to ensure that it is nevertheless a whole. as for schleicher's own group, for example, it added a whole new area of focus here. his group called for the introduction of a fifth specific objective, relating to gene therapy and the diagnosis of genetic diseases, cloning and so on. my group certainly did not see the need to add it. public health is a very important area of action for the union, because the treaty of amsterdam does commit the union to take account of health in all its activities. in this way we are faced with very demanding challenges. my group would like to stress the importance of this integration, and the commission will have a major role to play in bringing agricultural policy into line with health requirements. think, for example, of the food we eat. and that certainly means that in the future, we're going to be producing and eating a little bit more plant-based food and a little bit less meat-based food. it means that in industrial policy, when we make a chemical strategy, the public health starting points have to be very clear. this means that the food industry must accept that stricter regulations, for example on the salinity of food, will have to be adopted. there are many conflicts coming up and we can hope that the commission will work on these proposals further and that the council of ministers and parliament will then clarify this situation in the second reading.
mr president, the prime minister of the presidency, mr prodi, on the front page of yesterday's financial times the president of the international monetary fund, horst köhler, is making a very civilized, very formal statement to the political leaders of europe. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. when he says that the imf is likely to cut the forecast for the euro area's growth this year to 2.5%, we find that the economic operators have been as disappointed by the complete indecision of the stockholm meeting as my own group, the ppe-de, has been here in parliament. we have thus already fallen below the 3% growth rate in europe, which was indeed the medium-term objective and on which the employment and social security in europe can be maintained and improved. stockholm was like a mini-nice without the fuss. no one wanted to stand up for the common european interest and most governments were clinging to their own, conceived interests. this was despite the great efforts of the presidency to achieve results. at the beginning of the year, someone joked that the lisbon objectives had turned into the promises of nikita khrushchev. he told us in the early 1960s that the soviet union would overtake the united states in economic power within 10 years. after stockholm, the other side of that joke is coming true. it must be remembered that the decisions now being called for on the european patent, the liberalisation of competition in electricity, gas and postal services, the flexibility of air transport, the galileo system and so on will not bring about real change until some four to ten years after the political decision. i would like to point out, however, that a positive decision was taken in stockholm. finally, a little bit of concrete was found in the politics of the northern dimension. i hope that it will encourage not only us in the union but also the russians to look for and find suitable areas for cooperation in other areas. as a finn, i would ask the prime minister of our dear neighbour and the presidency: the stockholm conclusions have noted that the long-lasting good economic situation in the union would not have been possible without monetary and economic union. has the swedish government begun preparations to meet its community obligations by joining the third stage of emu? och på svenska: sweden is always welcome in the club!
mr president, mr minister, the council of the european union has indeed dealt with these questions relating to the boycott of austria. it is surprising that the presidency of the council, which was also a member of the council when these matters were being discussed, is not aware of the kind of remuneration paid to the experts who are given the task of taking certain measures to lift the sanctions. i would ask the swedish presidency and the national representatives who have been involved in the work of these 14 countries whether you are not aware of the kind of remuneration paid to these auditors. if you don't know that as a representative of the council, you know that as a representative of sweden, right?
the council. the answer to the honourable member's question is in principle yes. let me quote from the speech the presidency made on 29 march to the un commission on human rights. the eu welcomes the ratification by saudi arabia of the convention on discrimination against women, but says that 'the eu continues to be deeply concerned about reports of torture and other inhuman treatments and punishment, the increasing use of the death penalty and amputations, discriminatory laws and prohibitions of, or restrictions on, fundamental freedoms including freedom of expression, assembly association and religion'. the union has therefore clearly and unambiguously stated its position on the situation in saudi arabia in this area.
mr president, religious conflicts appear to be a major source of human rights violations in the world. does the council consider it necessary for the eu to have a special ombudsman for human rights to ensure the reconciliation of human rights with other eu policies?
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is renewing its amendment on the indication of feed materials by weight, while the council's common position provides for the indication of feed materials by category. the aim of parliament must be acceptable to the producers. the more detailed information on the content of feed is available, the better. it should be borne in mind that this method of notification is not in itself relevant for the safety of feed. more importantly, all the raw materials of the compound feed are actually named in the product information and comply with the requirements of the feed legislation. i think that a sensible outcome should be achieved quickly, because new legislation is needed. the mediation process must therefore be flexible, bearing in mind that the other side of the argument is the control of legislation. it is expensive and in some cases impossible to require feed manufacturers to match the percentage of each feed bag to the quantity indicated on the label or to have this subject to official control. the most important aspect of this legislation is that more attention needs to be paid to monitoring. safety is only guaranteed if the regulations are followed. as regards the list of substances authorised in amendment no 4, it should also be borne in mind that it would be a very burdensome administrative measure to include all the feed materials used in the various eu countries in one list. the current ec legislation already contains a list of prohibited substances and general quality requirements for feed products. i think it's worth discussing, but the pros and cons are still to be weighed.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the kyoto protocol is implemented. the president of the united states is directly attacking not only citizens of other countries but also his own citizens. bush's decision to withdraw from the kyoto protocol is a sign of a gross irresponsibility towards the future of humanity. the social democrats also want to emphasize strongly that his attitude is irresponsible, above all towards the developing countries. the united states' own carbon dioxide emissions account for about a quarter of the world's present carbon dioxide emissions. the united states produces more than ten times the amount of carbon dioxide per capita that would be sustainable on a per capita basis. the unilateral decisions of the president of the united states are not conducive to dialogue on both sides of the atlantic. to avoid further confrontation, bush must reverse his decision and engage in an active dialogue with the eu and other parties to the climate agreement to ensure that we take sufficient action together to combat climate change. however, the european union must at all times adhere to its obligations. europe and presumably the united states already have the technical capacity to reduce industrial emissions by one third by 2010 compared with 1990. the energy and transport sectors now need to be given a major and even greater focus. nor can economic considerations justify abandoning the objectives and commitments of kyoto. sustainable development does not threaten economic well-being, but on the contrary promotes the wise use of natural resources and ensures well-being and jobs for future generations. mr president, the social democrats in the european parliament want to make a strong appeal to the council to step up and not weaken the fight against climate change and to ensure that the gothenburg summit sends a clear message of the will of the europeans.
- mr president, the groups have taken a position on the question of mr berlusconi's parliamentary immunity, and i would like to say on behalf of my group that i have examined the documents held by the committee on legal affairs and internal market concerning previous cases concerning the immunity of spanish members and other members. i think it is very important that parliament should observe its rules on parliamentary immunity in a completely fair and consistent manner. after reading these precedents, i could not help but conclude that there were two precedents which would have made it possible to conclude that the request for the withdrawal of mr berlusconi's parliamentary immunity should have been notified to the plenary immediately after last summer and referred to the committee on legal affairs. i have the impression that the last argument you made, madam president, was that the requests in question had come from the spanish supreme court via the parliament's information service. i do not think that is a very convincing reason for postponing and delaying the matter. i can therefore only say that my group considered that there was every reason to inform the house immediately of this request for parliamentary immunity and to refer it to the committee on legal affairs, which could have ascertained whether there were any problems with this competent authority. i believe that the committee would have been very happy to do that. (applause from the verts/ale group)
the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to say that i have a particular interest in this matter. i am the chairman of the finnish national committee of unicef. secondly, i am pleased to note that thematic cooperation is of the utmost importance. unfortunately, unicef has been given the impression that it has only been able to carry out its mission for as long as there has been no specific european organisation that has been able to do so. the thematic cooperation will cover, among other things, education and the fight against poverty, which richard howitt mentioned. i hope we will be able to see a substantial increase in the eu's contribution to high quality education, the education of women and girls. we know that this has been a theme of the united nations, and it will be a theme of the united nations special session on children in september 2001. we have received a communication from the commission on the eu contribution to the conference on the poorest countries, but i wonder: will the commission also make a statement on how it is trying to prepare for the special session in september 2001? the eu's contribution will also be needed there.
- mr president, voggenhuber has raised a serious problem by saying that jörg heider is a fascist and that his party is a neo-fascist party. voggenhuber himself wishes that his parliamentary immunity be suspended, because he has shown our group very convincingly that this is a matter of defending freedom of expression, which he wants to do. he would therefore like to fight such a fascist party and its leader with the sword of words and he would not want parliamentary immunity to be an obstacle in this matter. i therefore have to inform you, mr president, that contrary to what the committee on legal affairs and internal market is proposing, my group will follow voggenhuber's own wishes, because it considers them to be quite justified, and will recommend that voggenhuber's parliamentary immunity be withheld. this is not to say that we are questioning the principles of the committee on legal affairs and that it should stick to its principles, but in this case we believe that the grounds exist for parliament to defend its own independence by taking up this challenge that heider has put to voggenhuber.
the committee on legal affairs and the internal market has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies and on the draft directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the commission. - mr president, in the debate on openness, it is worth noting first of all that we are not starting from a vacuum, since the european union institutions have had publicity rules in place since around 1993. the only real benchmark is therefore whether these new rules will really improve the situation. it should also be noted that the ombudsman and the court have considerably clarified and improved the existing rules on the publication of documents over the years. the credit for this goes to the active ngos and to the individuals who have refused to believe that the institutions could refuse to release certain documents to them and who have gone to appeal against these negative decisions. the fact that the treaty of amsterdam guarantees the widest possible right of access to documents of the institutions of the union is a rather demanding starting point. i think that in this respect the acceptance of this compromise raises some questions. the european parliament should have defended the possibility of correcting its shortcomings. i am sure that i will be accused of being a hyper-active openness activist, but i will not accept this burden and this stigma, and i would now like to describe to you in what respect i think that parliament should have waited and continued the debate. first of all, it should be noted that these negotiations have taken place behind closed doors during the swedish presidency. the european parliament should be very careful when it joins this type of accelerated codecision procedure, as it significantly sacrifices transparency. parliament has often been able to put pressure on the council of ministers to improve its proposals in line with its own objectives through the various stages of the codecision procedure. as regards the time limits, it is true that the institutions - including parliament - wasted a considerable amount of time which could have been used successfully in the codecision procedure in successive stages, in which parliament often wins a great deal towards the end. in this respect, i have said that perhaps a kind of stockholm syndrome has arisen during the swedish presidency and that parliament's negotiators may have taken too literally the argument that only sweden can carry this matter through with dignity. i have no reason to doubt that belgium, for example, is a good middle-man in terms of transparency and that it is certainly learning to value transparency more and more, so i think we could have continued. i would like to illustrate certain problems with this regulation by presenting a small item to you. this is a russian wooden doll. this one may have a slightly ugly face, and perhaps in this case it would be appropriate to have a more beautiful face, since we are talking about openness. let's imagine that this doll is that transparency setting. when we open the doll, we find new dolls inside. and that's exactly how these rules work: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of personal data are respected, and i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the protection of personal data, and whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the protection of personal data. and in the end, we will find him, just as we will find mr. solana himself! it is therefore precisely these sensitive documents that enable the council of ministers to conceal a very large number of documents. i think it is a pity that the european parliament did not fight a little more vigorously with the council of ministers on this issue. we would have needed a little more time, a little more openness and a little more public debate.
- your honor, when russia was ruled by the tsars, the country was ruled by the common law. but the monarch ruled the country not by laws but by exceptions to the laws. the principle of public access to european union documents applies to russia during the tsarist period. documents are generally public, but their classification is governed by exceptional provisions. the documents of the common foreign and security policy are being kept secret in the eu more effectively than the masons hide their own rituals, and nato is the grand master of the eu's plot. it has a monopoly on eu documents, but it has nothing to do with democracy. the eu has a built-in culture of secrecy, which is also maintained by parliament. last summer, a majority in parliament adopted a framework agreement with the commission on the public disclosure of documents, which places members of the european parliament in a position of unequal status. as a result, more than 20 members of parliament have brought actions against parliament and the commission before the court of first instance in luxembourg for infringement of the constitution. i'm sorry, my fellow swedes, but this poor compromise must be abandoned.
mr. speaker, madam secretary, i have to go. finally, it is a question of the wording, whether we really mean what is stated in article 4 of the regulation, namely that only if it seriously harms certain interests is access to a document refused during the procedure. the aim is to achieve transparency and we are striving to make this transparency as effective as possible. dear friends, it's about believing the words we write. i urge all those involved in this decision to ensure that the words are given their intended meaning. otherwise, the citizens will be even more suspicious. we've reached a compromise, we've made some gains. i am very pleased that we have succeeded in introducing more good administrative practices into the handling of documents than i thought we would. it is also important that the exemptions are more limited than the commission proposed. it's interesting to see what fell away. it was also interesting to hear commissioner barnier today say that infringement proceedings should be public, which means that we are entering a new era in the union. citizens can control the commission's activities in a completely new way. dear friends, many images have been used today. i agree with graham watson, without whom we would not have got so far, that we have got a strong blowtorch to use for the documents, instead of the flashlight we had before. we've been given a powerful tool. the eldr group will use that tool in the way my colleagues have indicated and we expect the ombudsman to help us. there are shortcomings, but not as extensive as the opponents claim. we must respect the meaning of the word. we must also ensure that the commission stops abusing the protection of personal data, as has recently happened once again. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of employees from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. that the public domain should apply to all institutions and should encompass more than the publication of documents.
- mr president, commissioner, parliament, the council and the commission have worked well together to improve the prevention and control of animal brain diseases. the regulation under consideration will provide a unified legal basis. the regulation shall take account of scientific developments. bse testing in ovine and caprine animals shall be introduced as soon as the test methods are available. the rapporteur proposes two amendments. the first is particularly welcome, as it will create additional security, especially for those countries where bse has not been detected before. animal movements are the main cause of animal diseases and therefore control activities need to be effective. in our group, the second amendment is considered unclear and therefore our group does not support it, especially if the aim is to lower the age limit for bse tests to 24 months old. it makes no sense for all the member states. i do not wish to say that i am not in favour of this, if some member states wish to do so. however, the measures in the eu should be adapted to the bse situation in the member states in accordance with the general guidelines of this regulation.
- mr president, although the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection did not treat the rapporteur, mr roth-behrendt, with kindness this time, i would nevertheless like to thank him for the good work he has done at various stages of the report. the committee adopted two amendments, the first of which was originally tabled jointly by professor trakatellis and myself. the essence of it is that the best-performing member states retain the right to require additional guarantees for animals imported into their territory. it does not seek to prevent the importation of animals or trade between member states, but only to prevent the spread of diseases to countries where they have not yet occurred. it is of course in the interest of the eu as a whole that diseases, including tse, are confined to as small an area as possible and prevented from spreading to new areas. as we look at the individual rules for the prevention and control of tses, it is becoming increasingly clear that the whole cap needs reform, that is, certain corrective measures. the committee of the regions has also expressed its concern at the lack of a coherent approach to the cap, which is not yet fully developed. this model should allow national support to be granted, aimed primarily at promoting food safety, environmental cleanliness and regional policy objectives. i think this is one possible and seriously to be taken way forward from the current system which is bad for the taxpayer, bad for the consumer, bad for the environment and especially bad for the farmer. when the eu was founded, its agricultural policy was simply designed to ensure food security in a troubled economy recovering from war. article 33 of the treaty continues to be based on this idea, even though the eu became self-sufficient in the 1960s and has been producing more than it needs since the 1970s. we need to move from quantity to quality.
mr president, commissioner, and my dear friends! i would like to congratulate malcolm harbour on an unusually initiated report which raises many important issues. this report also addresses the fact that the future society will be a mobile internet society, and i believe that we members are a kind of guinea pig as to whether this mobility will work or not. the report also shows the rapid pace of change we are seeing in this area, including the changing starting points of the capital market since the completion of malcolm harbour's work. the only thing i would say to the commissioner today is that i hope that the commission's organisation is flexible enough to take account of the needs of cooperation between different services, to be able to react quickly to the changes that are required. i also believe that this issue must be taken into account in the white paper on european governance. the commission's activities need to be better coordinated, as erika mann also mentioned. it is also clear that the internet will lead to challenges for administrations, where competition in transparency between administrations will become the guiding approach - and the commission will have to cope with that competition.
mr president, commissioner, on behalf of my group i would like to thank my colleague for his valuable work. i shall use my speech mainly to say that we support the amendments tabled by the rapporteur. they are very defensible from the point of view of the feed users, the farmers. the term 'official control', which is already mentioned in the title of the report, is very descriptive, since there has been no comprehensive official control and the results have been shocking. i also think that the definition and characterisation of official controls, which includes 'all products intended for animal feeding', is very good. the amendments also stress the need to take account of errors in the production process. this is right, too. the two amendments also very occasionally emphasize control. for example, the concepts of 'sending member state' and 'destination member state' and their cooperation are defined and required. cooperation and monitoring must be carried out in a very transparent manner, as must the inspection in the member state mentioned in amendment no 5. the amendment also states that experts must be assisted 'by any means necessary'. such definitions and definitions are particularly useful for the purposes of this directive and its implementation and monitoring. i would like to conclude by making one final point, mr president. recent history has shown that dioxins and sludge were used in animal feed. we are moving towards an enlarged eu. the future member states are agricultural countries. the issues that are important to us - such as official controls - must be in order before enlargement.
mr president, commissioner, the aim is to make the eu the most competitive economy in the world within 10 years, leaving no one behind. we want to develop europe in such a way that all people feel included. it is therefore natural that education should be given a strong prominence in the union's strategy. even good social policy cannot prevent exclusion if it does not ensure equality and quality in education. investing in training and its availability means making effective use of existing human resources. it is not just a matter of finding and encouraging the necessary talent, but of ensuring that everyone is taught the basic knowledge and skills. at the same time, education should help young people and adults alike to find their strengths and to succeed. in february, the european union's education ministers adopted a report on the concrete objectives of the member states' education systems. the work is to be continued. the follow-up report on this subject is to be presented to the european council in spring 2002. we in the committee on culture are very pleased with this development. the committee has long stressed the importance of a european debate on education. we regret, however, that parliament has been ignored in the preparatory work so far. it is not so much a question of authority as of the misuse of existing resources. i am convinced that involving parliament in the setting of education targets brings an important european perspective to it. although education is part of the proximity principle, education policies in different countries must take greater account not only of improving competitiveness but also of the individual's perspective. the european education policy must be developed in such a way as to serve the mobility and interaction of the citizens of the union.
mr von wogau, with his own expertise, has drawn up a balanced report on the community's economic policy guidelines. the commission's consistent approach to the social market economy as the most appropriate model for the general economic and social development of the community can only be applauded and supported. the social market economy is not, however, about sticking to outdated structures and building resistance to change under the pretext of preserving socialism and jobs. this is not what the von wogau report is saying either. on the contrary, the structures within the community must be constantly challenged and modernised if the solemn promise of lisbon to make europe the most competitive knowledge-based area in the world is to be fulfilled. but the signs are bad and some are getting worse. i do not accept that the staff should not be informed as soon as possible of structural changes and job losses, but if the marks & spencer case is to lead to a directive which will substantially slow down the transformation of companies, i am against it. i have been amazed by the official, albeit only newspaper-reviewed, negative attitude in germany towards the merger and takeover directive and the attempt to give companies artificial tools which prevent the merger of companies seeking efficiency. like von wogau, i have been tired of talking about the far too slow opening up and competition of the energy sector, the transport sector and the postal service in several different member states. the air transport sector is also likely to be in a state of serious disrepair for years to come, and the real competition in public procurement across europe is built into the system of barriers which are likely to prevent the real efficiency that genuine competition can bring. the umts auctions were, unfortunately, a good example of how governments manage to shoot europe and themselves in the foot in the construction of eeurope. mr president, balanced public finances, control of inflation and monitoring of employment indicators are of course important, even necessary, but it is equally necessary to clean up the skeletons in many national cupboards and to put an end to the constant glancing at the electorate.
mr president, i would like to join in all the praise that the rapporteur has received here. he could really be called mr producer responsibility, because this was already the second historic directive, the second historic achievement in which producer responsibility is coming into the european union's environmental and product legislation in a significant way. this is how we are entering a new phase in environmental policy. the point is that environmental requirements can be taken into account even in the design of products. i have noticed that there is already a debate in large companies because of this directive about how, for example, gsm phones could be lighter - although they are lighter - how they could be more easily dismantled, and how all these harmful substances could be separated and then delivered as waste to be treated responsibly. i would like to return to these harmful, dangerous substances. our group would have liked to see a little more determined action to try to get rid of particularly dangerous chemicals. let me give you an example. there has been a lot of talk about product safety, which is a very important issue, especially fire safety. there has been some debate about whether such halogenated fire extinguishers should be banned in the future. we think it is quite clear that they are toxic, because they have led, among other things, to the doubling of the amount of these halogenated chromium compounds in human milk every five years. there are alternatives to them, and we would like to see them banned more quickly and that in this way companies are encouraged to introduce non-invasive alternatives without compromising the safety of their products.
i would also like to extend my warmest congratulations to mr florenz for the report. a balanced and good report is being drawn up on this subject, which, together with the previous directive on the car rights drawn up by florence, will now be the model for other similar legislation. that is why the decisions to be taken now are particularly important. i am particularly pleased that my amendments clarifying producer responsibility were accepted in committee. it has a major impact on the quantity and quality of the electrical and electronic waste generated, greater than any other possible decision that parliament could take on scrap. it creates incentives for greener design and innovation even before products are on the market, thereby reducing the environmental impact of a product throughout its life cycle. this is a big change from the previous way of thinking, which focused on repairing and preventing environmental damage only at the stage of the product when it was waste. annex ii on waste treatment requirements should be treated in the same way. if a directive always requires the removal of, for example, drawing boards, it does not create an incentive for the development of materials used in drawing boards, which must in any case be removed from the directive's requirement. instead, the mention of the substance whose component is to be removed creates an incentive for the development of components free of these hazardous substances. only this approach will really encourage ecological design. that is what amendment no 77 is about. similarly, incentives should be provided for the development of alternative waste management methods, which should also have the least possible environmental impact. my amendment to that effect was already adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection in the annex, but the corresponding amendment to the article is contained in amendment no 76 tabled in plenary. mr president, the european union is enacting legislation that clearly shows the rest of the world that the conflict between environmental considerations and economics is not inevitable but can be reconciled by deliberate legislation. this is where the real potential for sustainable development arises, where the eu can be a global pioneer.
- (sv) mr president, you had a summit in st petersburg in june, but you have another summit meeting this week, namely with russia. how will sustainable development come to the summit talks with putin and the eu? have you touched on the subject of energy saving? zult u het hebben over the sensitive new energy extraction in the arctic areas? are you planning to report on the way in which russia has followed up the measures of the previous eu-russia summits? russia promised, among other things, to protect the environment in the finnish bay and the sea in primorsk. zult u eis dat rusland the esbo convention concerning the effects of environmental pollution in transboundary context is not a valid one. i will mention only some of the topics discussed at the previous summits. the situation in the finnish market is very sensitive because currently in primorsk one haven is being built.
- (sv) as usual, i have nothing to bring against the reply of commissioner patten. we stress that boycott is not the right way, especially since most cases of child slavery actually occur in the private sphere of small agricultural enterprises. i am also grateful for his support for the work of unicef. we are not, however, so pleased with the fact that the us will not be the chair of the commission on human rights. can the commissioner say more about the possibilities of supporting unicef's work in these areas? we know that the problem of sanctions against certain countries in your area, for example against liberia, is very topical. can the commissioner guarantee that this will not have a negative impact on the support to unicef and other child-related actions? intelligent sanctions are necessary. we must invest in training and a choice of a rights based approach, which is what you have had.
mr commissioner, it seems that the italian general elections held last sunday are about to end in a victory for the centre-right party forza italia and that silvio berlusconi is to become the next prime minister of italy. during his election campaign, berlusconi promised his supporters massive tax cuts and also investments in public construction projects. what do you think of these campaign promises? does the commission consider that italy could also be given such a warning if it pursues or pursues an expansionary economic policy in a situation where there is indeed inflationary pressure in the euro area, or are such warning projects limited to small euro area countries such as ireland?
- thank you, mr commissioner, for your honest answer. i think that's given us the opportunity to work together. it was clear to me that the small countries, which generally supported the commission's position, had not done so at the vienna meeting. in my view, we can enter into future debates not only in the context of the development of european governance. i hope that the commissioners will not forget the situations in which the eu can play a role at world level. i also hope that the commission will maintain informal contacts with the representatives of the member states, for example the imf's management, in all circumstances. i think they would find a very valuable meeting if together they could overlap the agenda of the imf and see where coordination is necessary in order to defend our interests. the world bank operates in a different way, but it is the members of the imf board who should be coordinating.
i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent reports and for the good work they have done. these reports have drawn attention to the essential aspects of improving maritime safety. however, much remains to be done to improve maritime safety. in addition to further tightening the rules, it is necessary to ensure that the solutions are realistic and also feasible. the council has incorporated into its common position a large part of the amendments adopted by parliament at first reading. for rating agencies, the problem is to change the liability clause so that it defines not only a minimum limit but also a maximum limit. however, a number of member states are not accepting the setting of a ceiling. the problem with the port state control directive is the black boxes, which need to be installed on board ships more quickly. all ships must have a black box, but in view of economic realities, solutions must be found to equip existing cargo ships with a technically simplified black box. i think that the approval and supervision of classification societies must be tightened up. extended inspections shall be specifically targeted at vessels at risk. for vessels on the high-risk blacklist, the criteria for the entry of a vessel into port should be more stringent. our group considers it important that the problems be solved, that both proposals be adopted swiftly and that progress be made in the field of security. i would also like to point out, however, that solutions to improve maritime safety within the union alone are not enough, since, for example, responsibility issues must be dealt with on a global basis.
- (sv) mr president, commissioner, i agree with the rapporteur that the package of measures needed must be adopted swiftly. i also realise how important the future erica ii package is to the biggest, open and independent environmental risk that the finnish bocht faces, namely the harbour building in primorsk. dear friends, the situation is particularly problematic because probably the worst tankers have been used to transport large quantities of oil into the vulnerable baltic sea. commissioner, i would ask you to take measures within the framework of your package to ensure that the black boxes mr watts has mentioned are brought forward as quickly as possible, as well as a reporting system for the finnish authorities. in this context, the classification of ice cream may also have been taken into account. we also know that pollution is probably always the greatest source of pollution, although accidents get the most attention. it is clear that prosecutors working within eurojust need to work together more closely on the subject of the package. we've all got the report, but the prosecutors are not intervening.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, transatlantic relations seem to have reached a rather difficult stage. i think we could even talk about some kind of crisis. i think it was welcome that minister lind said that we can also criticise when there is a reason to do so. we are not talking about the united states, but about the european union, and we are talking about the european union. it seems to me that the main thing that unites the european union and the united states is that we share a great deal of responsibility for global developments, because we are the world's largest trading blocs. i believe that in the future, the transatlantic relationship should continue to focus on developing solutions to the problems of social inequality in the world and on jointly seeking instruments for sustainable development. in this respect, the council and the commission should also be commended for the fact that, during the stockholm summit, prime minister persson and commission president prodi sent a letter to the president of the united states in which they stressed the importance of the kyoto protocol and in particular stated that the climate policy of the kyoto protocol is an essential part - and not a side issue - of our understanding of the transatlantic relationship. this is my liberal interpretation of the matter. i would like to thank the commissioner for his excellent comparison with the tanker, and i would like to continue along the same lines. i would think that this tanker of ours should be the best environmentally friendly technology in the world, and as mr cox said, it should have at least a double bottom and its engine should be very efficient and its fuel the cleanest - preferably solar energy, if possible, mr commissioner! i would also like to say that if the united states wants to become the last outpost of old technology in the world, that is to say, the outpost of 'old' technology, because it refuses to go out and develop climate-friendly solutions, which we cannot do anything about, then the european union must nevertheless become the world's leading region in this respect, and we can still invite the united states to join this climate policy, which also generates good business. i would like to say a few words about security policy. my group is very concerned that the united states is going to use global resources for a missile defence system. we see that it is likely to increase threats globally and that the european union should refrain from participating in this and instead convince the united states that security in the world is promoted by solutions based on the global promotion of socially and ecologically sustainable development.
thank you for your answer. it's settled. but have you forgotten that you promised to send information on the salaries of the so-called wise men in the case of austria? you promised last time. are you planning on sending that information?
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr ferber for his excellent report. i know that it has been the result of difficult negotiations, in which the rapporteur and the other members of the committee on budgets have successfully defended the rights of the european parliament. in the supplementary budget, the council intends to create three new lines in the general secretariat for the implementation of the common european security and defence policy. these are: (1) political affairs, (2) operations and training and (3) general external action instruments. the total number of employees in this organisation would be 140, of which 51 would be recruited for new posts. it's a rush. why the urgency of setting up new offices immediately when the actual budget is only to be discussed in a few months? the second problem is the overlap of functions. the structure of the organisation threatens to lead to the same activities being undertaken in the fields of both crisis prevention and civil crisis management, both in the commission and in the council. this duplication must be avoided. the council is now creating a specific section in its budget for the common security and defence policy, following pressure from parliament. it is clear that this is a completely new council act, which has nothing to do with administrative expenditure. the council has not yet adopted a decision on the budget for the financial year 2000 and the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the budget for the financial year 2000. the expenditure of the common security and defence policy falls within the competence of parliament. finally, the margin for heading 5 'administrative expenditure' is reduced to eur 34 million. at the eastern enlargement threshold, this is so low that it does not allow for any additional operational expenditure at the expense of administrative expenditure.
mr. president, i'm trying to keep up with the schedule. buitenweg has drawn up a good report as a basis for parliament's budget for next year. thank you very much. the key challenges for the european parliament's budget are to improve governance and increase efficiency. this is particularly necessary in the context of the forthcoming enlargement of the eu. we must prepare ourselves for next year to see the number of members in this parliament increase to over 100 in 2004, bringing with them a dozen new languages. this raises very specific requirements for the organisation and efficiency of translation and interpretation services. the general administration is also facing completely new demands, which is why it is absolutely essential to extend budgeting and accountability for operational management to parliament's administration. the second problem is real estate policy. the aim should be to streamline parliament's activities in such a way as to reduce expenditure on property. the commission considers that the measure is selective because it favours certain undertakings, in particular smes, which are not in a position to obtain a return on their investment. on the other hand, it is necessary to require the member states of the sites to do their utmost to ensure that the investigations relating to real estate activities can be concluded promptly. it is not a good thing for the host country if the european parliament, which is active in its territory, has unimaginable difficulties in implementing a sound real estate policy.
i would ask, mr president, that the services of this house listen to yesterday's tapes before the barón crespo's opinion is entered in the minutes, because i do not think that his opinion this morning is the same as what he said yesterday.
(sv) madam president, history will show that the decisions we make to create networks are more important than the many other decisions we make. one example is the consumer's right to know. we find that we can all cooperate. we will achieve concrete results. it is important that the rules on the protection of privacy, as i have already mentioned, are respected. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal to amend the directive. it is necessary to organise as correspondent forms of cooperation for those accused, those who are precisely being defended, so that all benefit from a situation of equality. o group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party, to which i belong, defends that crimes against the environment should be included among those applying this proposal. unfortunately, we know that intentional discharges of oil constitute a source of pollution significantly greater than accidents. the public prosecutor's office very rarely intervenes against these crimes and is therefore required to cooperate with eurojust, for example, in the case of the baltic sea, which is particularly difficult. the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party tabled amendment no 28, because it considers that we must respect the various forms of judicial inquiry. in some countries, as in the case of the case of me, an inquiry is partially conducted by an entity other than the magistrate who is in charge of the prosecution. these differences must be respected, as was the case in the tampere conclusions, which are the basis of our decision and of our discussion today.
mr president, i thank you for the skillful and balanced conduct of the proceedings. i am referring to the schleicher report on the financing of european political parties. the self-financing of the parties is only 25%, and therefore the aid is 75%, which is why i did not consider the aid from the companies necessary. activity must also do something, and we must also get support from the members! that is why i voted against the corporate donation. i am also of the opinion that excessive spending has begun to distort elections, as exemplified by the italian elections. it may continue to distort elections, and for that reason some limit must be found to the use of money in elections.
- mr president, the nice agreement was a coup d'etat by the big countries. their votes were increased at the expense of the small ones. the large nations were also given a new veto based on population. the treaty of nice was justified by the need for enlargement. the leaders of the small countries have accepted the principle that the major countries will gain more votes even if the eu does not enlarge. this miscalculation by the leaders of the small countries is sufficient reason to reject the nice treaty. the declaration adopted in nice, no 23, increases the federalist pressure to adopt a supranational constitution for the eu and to use the so-called convention method to prepare it. it is an unparliamentary and undemocratic method. the treaty of nice supports the german model of federalism and does not recognise the french prime minister's demand for a europe of independent states. this report supports the development of federalism and must be rejected, and the nice treaty should be rejected by the national parliaments. i wish the irish democrats success in the referendum on the rejection of the agreement through direct democracy. nowhere else do they dare to ask the citizens, who are the only subjects of democracy.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner wallström, representatives of the presidency, first of all i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on the environment. it is thanks to your flexibility that we are now adopting parliament's position on the sixth community action programme on the environment. it has rightly been criticised that parliament's consideration of the programme has been carried out at a time which is far too rapid for the importance and scope of the matter. the reason, as you know, is that the matter is being delayed in the commission. but when we wanted to make our own contribution to the gothenburg summit, the first summit devoted to environmental issues, there was no escaping the rush, nor the vote in committee, which was struck by the dark emotions. i would like to thank the chairman of the committee, the secretariats of the committees and groups and the assistants to the members for the voting arrangements. i would also like to thank the swedish presidency for the good cooperation, as well as the commission. we have been able to establish effective cooperation with the commission during the preparatory phase, although the assessments of the nature of the programme are not in all respects entirely consistent. in the course of preparing the environment action programme, we have been able to reach a broad consensus on the correctness of the priorities proposed by the commission. the main environmental concerns are climate change, biodiversity loss, health threats from environmental problems, the availability of natural resources and the sustainable management of waste. the way in which the programme deals with problems that need to be solved has been a source of controversy. the commission has wanted a more descriptive programme and i, as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, have chosen a line which, where possible, sets concrete quantitative and qualitative targets for the priority areas selected, and also sets clear timetables for those targets. although the environment action programme is designed for a period of 10 years, i have also set out objectives for a longer period. for example, tackling climate change requires a time perspective of several decades. intermediate targets must be set with sufficient ambition to ensure that long-term objectives are met. when the environment council gave the commission instructions for the preparation of the programme in march last year, it also called for concrete objectives and timetables to be set. how far the environment ministers will reach a common position in a week's time on the building remains to be seen. i wish you luck. it would be a very strong message to the european citizens about the eu's environmental policy if parliament and the council took a common position on the objectives at the gothenburg summit. i think it is essential that the eu environment programme should contain clear objectives and timetables for achieving the objectives, because only such a programme and its implementation can be assessed with sufficient unambiguity. the mid-term evaluation of the programme shall be based on verifiable progress and shall allow for the necessary corrective actions to be taken to reach the objectives. achieving environmental objectives requires cooperation. environmental issues must be integrated into all community policies and decisions. we will not prevent climate change or the possibility of healthy air for our citizens unless we limit emissions from energy production, transport and industry. however, decisions on what is done in the different policy areas and how to enable environmental issues to be integrated into policies are taken within these different sectors. therefore, they must also be equipped with a stronger environmental awareness. environmental assessment must also be included in economic decisions. the commission and the council must change their working methods in order to integrate environmental issues into all community decision-making. the commission has put forward an interesting idea to create new types of thematic strategies, thematic programmes on the problems of greatest concern. i think this is very welcome. however, parliament and the council must be involved in the decision-making process through the normal co-decision procedure. enlargement is both a challenge and an opportunity for europe's environment. the programme should set out ways in which enlargement can be seen as a great opportunity to improve the state of our environment. we must also take a bold lead in international environmental policy, both in trade policy and in development policy. strong citizen participation must also be ensured. this requires clear and visible communication on environmental issues.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have taken part in the debate. i am perhaps a little disappointed in the ppe-de's position. these programme objectives, which are set out in the report, are mainly taken from the commission's communication section, but they also contain many of the same objectives as those set out by commission president prodi in his own presentation on sustainable development at the last strasbourg session. i thank all the shadow rapporteurs: i think the work was done with a real purpose. i also thank you for the comments that were made, and i myself try to start discussions as early as possible and to keep in touch with the various parties during the work. i hope i've succeeded in that. i also hope that the ppe-de will support this report, because i have taken very much account of their proposals in committee. perhaps that is why this final proposal for the first reading has become a bit of a barrel of wishes, but bernd lange and david bowe have spelled out very well how we can work on this programme document. thank you again!
- mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr gianfranco dell'alba, for his excellent report. it has been a tremendous task to draw up this report, analyse the amendments and present the compromises. in that respect, this report and its preparation have been quite unique. i would also like to thank mr michiel van hulten for his very good cooperation. the reform of the financial regulation is the most important step in modernising the administration of the commission and the eu as a whole. its main aims are to improve the efficiency of government, clarify personal responsibility and speed up the movement of money. the eu's reputation as a bill-payer is grim, with payments being delayed many times longer than is acceptable in business and in the payment transactions of its member countries. the main reason for the reform, however, is to clarify personal responsibility and accountability. this can only be done by clearly assigning both administrative and financial responsibility to the same persons, as is currently the case. the reform of the financial regulation is essential to improve the efficiency of governance. it opens the way to the development of performance-based governance and performance-based budgeting. in this way, the agencies and institutions can be guided more by objectives and results than by controls and detailed rules. the bureaucracy is reduced and at the same time the agencies are given the opportunity to improve their own working methods. at the same time, they take on greater responsibility for their work. however, the implementation of the reform will require a reform of the staff regulations, which in turn requires good cooperation with, among others, the workers' organisations. but change is absolutely necessary. i would like to conclude by mentioning some of the details which are important to my group. the appropriations allocated shall be used for a maximum of three years, after which the unused part shall be cancelled. the carry-over of appropriations for the following year is an important instrument for the implementation of a flexible budgetary policy. the basic premise is that we support the rapporteur's proposals.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the european union already has a quarter of a century of tradition in legislation which obliges us to take equality between women and men in working life seriously. the directive we are discussing today was originally adopted in 1976. we can say that our societies have developed strongly in many respects over this quarter of a century and it is time to revise our concepts of equality between women and men in working life to meet the requirements of the present time. we are also obliged to do so by the treaty of amsterdam, which stipulates, among other things, that equality between women and men must be taken into account in all community activities. we have a whole new set of challenges that we have to tackle through legislation. the european union is proposing for the first time measures to bind member states to combat sexual harassment, which is widespread in the workplace. i can say that according to studies, one in two women in the european union have been the victim of sexual harassment at work. it is quite clear that it can also occasionally affect men, men can also be victims of sexual harassment, but the main rule is still today that they are predominantly women. in this respect, the committee on women's rights and gender equality proposes that we go a little further than the commission originally intended. the committee calls for the member states to take preventive measures to combat sexual harassment and for employers to be obliged to create working conditions in which sexual harassment is unlikely to occur. i have also stressed that this may improve the position of the employer, because if he can show that he has taken such preventive measures, he will certainly be in a stronger position in a conflict situation. the protection of maternity also requires further reinforcement. i'm from finland myself, and we often think of finland as a model of equality. i can tell you, however, that in our country too, for example, women in their thirties have more abortions than they should have. when the causes of this have been investigated, it has been found that it may be because of the intense competition in the workplace: employers discriminate against women who are at an age when they are likely to have children. we now want to ban this once and for all. it is discrimination on grounds of sex, which is prohibited. this directive also provides for stronger legal remedies for victims of gender-based discrimination and requires that victims of gender-based discrimination may take legal action even if their employment relationship has already ended. in this respect, he may be assisted by the independent public authorities which this directive requires to be set up. in most member states, such an independent equality body certainly already exists, but i would like to stress the importance of this issue in the context of the situation in the applicant countries. the committee on women's rights and gender equality has in another context drawn strong attention to the fact that the issue of gender equality in the applicant countries has not been given the importance it should have in the accession negotiations. this can also be strengthened by the creation of adequate institutions whose statutory role is to ensure and even promote equality. i would like to emphasise that the development of society has brought new types of equality issues. we had a lively debate in our committee on whether young men and fathers should also be given stronger protection against discrimination on grounds of sex. i think we have found a good compromise, by which we include fathers and their rights in this directive. i think this is quite timely, as the discussion of equality has shifted a lot to how men can participate in fulfilling their family responsibilities. this is the way to achieve real equality. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, i would like to thank you. in nordic fashion i do not usually give unnecessary praise, but this time i am happy to read a pro-progress report with the very ingredients that mr gröner mentioned, namely the right of young men and women to return to work after parental leave, for example. i think that's good. one of the most central issues is the new rules on discrimination against women, i.e. the right to return to work after parental leave. the proposal would give a worker or official the right to return to his previous job or equivalent work on no less favourable terms after parental leave. at the same time, any treatment which disadvantages a woman and which is directly or indirectly linked to pregnancy, motherhood or the reconciliation of family and working life would be prohibited and constitute direct discrimination. i have an example from my summer commune of oravais where the ordinary office holder was forced to resign so that the deputy could also be dismissed. is this not both prohibited, since it is direct discrimination, and a violation of the right to return to work provision? this municipality's procedure is definitely in violation of the forthcoming regulations. the example shows that the new directives are needed. it is important that we have rules to prevent practices which discriminate against young women in senior positions in the private sector or in public administration. i think that is one of the most important aspects, especially in view of the number of young women employed in temporary posts today. the regulations were supposed to protect them. i hope we can continue to reflect on one point, namely the question of organizations whose members have a particular profession. in this connection, i think we must consider the link between the two fundamental rights that we have in the constitutions of many countries, namely freedom of association and the right to protection against discrimination, the right to equality. i am thinking, for example, of the associations of women lawyers, which are close to me and which we must ensure that we can maintain.
i am very pleased that so many members have referred to these amendments on the status of parents, especially young parents. motherhood, pregnancy and fatherhood must not be reasons to prevent progress in working life. i think that amendment no 25 in particular is very good and very well reasoned. it has already been mentioned here that during economic boom periods, childbearing is often postponed, and this is very worrying for young women. i also welcome amendment no 42, which refers to this problem of equal pay, which in my view is still the worst problem of equality for women in europe. it is absolutely unacceptable that in many sectors, even in the public sector, women's average earnings are still lower than those of men with the same level of education and work experience. our society and our economy cannot afford not to harness the full potential of all its people. our society must offer all its members equal and unlimited opportunities to develop themselves in the way they choose. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to participate in the work of the european parliament. sexual harassment is an abhorrent phenomenon. i would like to stress that the inherent dignity and integrity of the individual are fundamental values that cannot be violated, especially by us conservatives. sexual harassment, a subject that has been silent for so long, must be dealt with effectively. however, action at the european union level is only appropriate if we are not able to legislate sufficiently comprehensively at national level. on this issue, i believe that sound social structures and effective national legislation are the best means of preventing sexual harassment. european community legislation must also meet the general legal requirements for legislation. clear, precise and detailed wording is one of them. in asserting his rights in a legal proceeding, a person must be able to base his claim on a clear legal text. i agree with mr lulling that this report is not legally adequate in all respects. i would also like to say that i am absolutely opposed to amendment no 40, which refers to the introduction of a class action in this sector. i do not think that this is a bad thing for this sector in particular, but i am opposed to the introduction of the group action mechanism in the european legal system in general.
- mr president, i would like to appeal to mr poettering and also to all those who have planned to postpone the consideration of mr wuornos report on human rights. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. but then, when there is really something that could be done, people want to put things off. i would ask mr poettering to consider not taking mr wuor's report off the agenda but to include a brief discussion of the irish referendum in addition to this debate on the gothenburg summit. it would be a real shame if this - without denying it, the highlight of this week - mr wuor's report were suddenly taken away. none of you wanted this last week. of course, one could have thought that the irish referendum would have been a debate, but it was not.
- mr. chairman, let me make an alternative suggestion. i propose that mr wuornos's report on human rights be kept on the agenda and that the council and the commission be asked to make a statement on the irish referendum in the gothenburg debate. this is entirely possible. we have all morning for these two conversations .
- mr president, i would like to thank mr dybkjær for his excellent report on a subject which is of importance to us all. the group of eight took the position at the okinawa summit in july last year that the world's main challenge at the moment is the sharp differences in technical capacity and know-how between the south and the north, the so-called digital divide. there are areas of the world where two billion people are isolated. unless this technical skills gap is closed, globalisation will have already begun to take shape. the rapporteur wisely states that the development of digital skills must not be based solely on the private sector but must be undertaken by the public sector, both from the eu and from other donors. this is a realistic starting point. it is not just a technical problem, but the combined effect of geographical isolation, poverty and disease. the success of globalisation therefore requires the integration of these isolated regions with the rest of the world, but also a real commitment to education and health care for their inhabitants. if the situation is allowed to develop solely on the basis of market forces, there is a risk that the digital divide will become insurmountable. although development cooperation has been largely positive in recent decades, the media have highlighted and thus shaped public opinion on a few sad examples of tractors rusting in the fields, or donations made on business terms without the necessary understanding of the situation and capabilities of the recipient. the same exact horror can happen now if we do not ensure that the information society in the developing world has a sound foundation on which to build. this foundation is the right of all to a basic education and a life of dignity. the ppe-de group wants the european union to act in such a way that all the countries of the world can participate in the adoption of information technology and develop their societies with it. if this coordinating and complementary approach can be followed in the field of information technology and telecommunications, we hope that information technology will promote partnership and even make all other development cooperation in these countries more effective. this line is also successfully reflected in the report before us.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. - mr president, mr commissioner, the food safety legislation under discussion is of the utmost importance from the point of view of the agricultural sector. it largely determines the conditions under which entrepreneurship operates and thus lays the foundation for all agricultural activity. on behalf of our committee, i would like to thank mr whitehead warmly for having drawn up the preparatory work in such a proper way that we, the other rapporteurs, were able to participate in the process. and i would like to thank you in particular for having taken the amendments of the committee on agriculture into account, i would say with complete comprehensiveness and expertise, and even improving some of the wording of the amendments. you've done a great job with this. i would like to draw your attention to one point in particular. you will appoint 12 representatives to the board of the new food authority, two of whom will be representatives of the food industry. i would suggest, in accordance with the wishes of the committee, a slight correction to that wording, so that one of the representatives would be from the original production. this is the subject of amendment no 208. without going beyond the figures, perhaps technical details, which our committee has put forward, i thank you, mr whitehead. i also hope that this bill will be quickly finalised and implemented. one part of that is to get the food agency up and running. we cannot afford to delay any longer, and the gothenburg summit must, for reasons of credibility in the eyes of the citizens, reach a rapid decision on the establishment of the agency.
- mr. speaker, like others, i want to give mr. whitehead my sincere support for the excellent work he has done. i also want to support whitehead in the council's decision on the location after consulting the commission and parliament. this decision should be taken without delay at the gothenburg summit. there are several wishes expressed here that the agency should be launched immediately at the beginning of next year. if we want an agency that really does the job that is expected of it, we must also sacrifice the time spent preparing for the establishment of the agency. the location of this office is not the most important thing, but i very much sympathize with the ideas put forward by the committee that, in particular, this office should pay attention to where it is placed. nor is it a bad criterion that the place of establishment could represent the country with the fewest cases before the court of justice of the eu on food safety. these are matters of public interest. the agency must be given adequate resources, not only financial but also technical and scientific. the authority shall be independent and well connected to the scientific community. transparency and merit-based appointments are essential. it must be an expert agency, trusted here in parliament, trusted by the citizens, which informs them of threats, risks and also of the progress made in the field of food safety.
- mr president, i would first like to join my colleague mr whitehead in thanking him for a job well done. he has continued along the wise line already chosen by mr john bowis in his own report. the european parliament has clearly taken its share of responsibility in their presentation for restoring the confidence of the european consumer and ensuring food safety. the most important part of the regulation under consideration is the establishment of the food safety authority. i am particularly pleased that the committee has decided to repeat the criteria on whitehead's proposal, which were adopted on my initiative when the bowes report was discussed in october last year. it must have a good reputation in the field of food safety in order to be trusted by more than 300 million european consumers. it must not compromise the independence and integrity of the authority, and it must provide a good scientific infrastructure and conditions in the field of food safety. it must be within reach of good transport and communications links. this is particularly important because, back in october, the socialist group opposed the definition of these criteria. now they too, under the leadership of whitehead, seem to understand the importance of defining what we expect from the food agency and what criteria we set for the location. it is to be hoped, in the interests of all eu citizens, that these criteria will also be met when the council decides to do so. the agreement reached in parliament earlier does not support amendment proposals which take a direct stand for a particular locality. this line is worth keeping. finally, mr president, i would like to express my deep regret that the council does not seem to be able to take a decision quickly enough on this matter. and so the establishment of the authority is in danger of being postponed. the establishment of the food authority is a matter where public confidence can no longer be undermined by generating political packages of disconnected solutions or - even worse - by creating the impression of a political bullshit in the council, which should clearly be a policy of the past.
- mr president, commissioner, there is a directive on the treatment of animal by-products under consideration. my view is that the situation is the same in the case of producers on the one hand and in the case of small volumes and long distances on the other. first of all, i would like to say that mrs paulsen has done a thorough and good job. i am particularly grateful that he has also taken account of the problems of the sparsely populated areas which i represent in amendment no 69, which allows local destruction in exceptional circumstances. my problem with the proposal is why precautions are the same throughout the eu if there are no risks in some areas. in this case too, these regions will be incurring unnecessary costs. for example, producers in the northern region already have higher costs due to natural conditions. i'm not talking about principle, but rather common sense. in the only animal waste facility in the country, it is still possible to separate different categories of waste, but it seems very difficult to separate waste from different animal species, since the volumes involved are so small. therefore, the good goal of ending cannibalism must be approached in a guiding and reasoning manner. there are phenomena in the animal kingdom that involve what is called natural cannibalism. what will be the future of such animals? the directives do not prevent natural cannibalism of animals. although we now accept parliament's position on the proposal for a directive, these matters still need to be considered. i am not advocating an efficient economy, but i want to see greater consideration given to the different circumstances of the regions.
the council. i may have thought i had already answered this question, but i will gladly repeat it. as far as the council is aware, there are already a number of independent studies on various aspects of the tobin tax. therefore, no further studies are considered necessary. as i said, there has been no proposal within the council to raise the matter. the presidency is not going to take it up, and as far as we know there is no proposal to be expected from the commission either.
- mr president, has the council considered other ways of achieving the same objectives? i think we can agree on those goals. they are necessary and necessary, that is to say, they stabilize the world economy and the economies of individual countries and they control the transfer of wealth from the north to the south. so even if we don't find that way in tobin's tax, can you tell me what else has been done?
- mr president, mr bolkenstein, the administrative burden on businesses operating in the eu must be minimised. the commission proposal and the excellent report by mrs torres marques are contributing to this development. the administrative burden is particularly heavy on small and medium-sized enterprises, which, due to their small size, have to use relatively more energy to comply with the regulations than large enterprises. in its first amendment to the commission proposal, our committee on economic and monetary affairs has already stated that the competent national authorities must always ensure that compliance with this directive does not impose any additional and unnecessary administrative burden on smes. simplification of community legislation must always have the effect of reducing the administrative burden on smes. it is also very important from this point of view that we vote tomorrow on amendment no 18 which i tabled in committee as part of parliament's final position. the legislation on the reform and modernisation of invoicing requirements must take account of the opportunities offered by the ever-growing e-commerce and the new requirements it imposes. a recently published nordic study found that in 2005 some 80% of business invoices were electronic. at present, this percentage is 10%. the price is estimated to fall by half in the nordic countries with electronic invoicing. so the significance is not insignificant. the electronic signature referred to in amendment no 18 may be one way of ensuring the authenticity of invoices submitted electronically and the integrity of their content, but it is not the only way. experience gained in member states that have adopted electronic invoicing shows that the absence of an electronic signature has not caused problems for auditors or other persons requiring information. the use of an advanced electronic signature should not be mandatory. this would be a step backwards for those member states which have long accepted electronic invoicing without the requirement to use an electronic signature. the issue of network security should not be confused with the legal requirements of vat. i hope that mrs torres marques will reconsider her position before the vote tomorrow.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the eldr group is in favour of the reform which you have outlined in the white paper and which we have had the privilege of discussing with the commissioner. we look forward to receiving the concrete proposals from the committee on budgets and the other committees. like the previous speakers, we accept this proposal as a one-off measure, as a necessary measure to move the reforms forward. we also believe it is cost-neutral. we are also pleased that the commission has recognised that the other institutions should have similar rights, that this will be included in the agenda and that it will be accepted. when we compare our institutions, i would like to warn the commissioner on one point, namely the acceptance of the promotion system we have in the european parliament. i have heard that the commission is interested in this, but unfortunately i have received indications that there is no real assessment of the actual skills of the various staff because the assessment is a zero-sum game. this is said as a salute to the continuation of the reform work.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it has been an interesting process to draw up this report through a hughes procedure between two committees. in most cases i think we have succeeded in creating a certain coherence between the committees and also with the previous reports on the same subject which were also mentioned by previous speakers. i also think that the rapporteur has tried to achieve such a coherence, particularly in terms of creating a bridge between the reports which have been approved in the past and this report. that is excellent, but i think that we have not yet succeeded in doing so on certain points. this is particularly true of the television standards contained in some of the amendments. we've also struggled a lot with the term co-regulation. in this case i can and will more easily accept what the rapporteur has said, but translated into several of the other languages it does not sound quite as good. co-regulation in the sense that an authority is the final balance-sheet reviewer is acceptable, but in some of the translations of the report there is loose talk of common rules, which is not as descriptive. it is important to have a balance in this report. i think that we should ensure that, when we vote tomorrow, there is a balance between the provisions on the one hand on the subject of 'must-carry' and the financial compensation for those who are obliged to do so and on the other hand on the telecommunications companies who are obliged to do so under the other rules. i also think that tomorrow we should ensure that there is still a comprehensive numbering service, which we can only have if there is a financial interest in running such a service. we must not forget this in the vote tomorrow and in the forthcoming directive on the protection of individuals in telecommunications networks.
madam president, i would like to thank you. this is an important issue, dear friends, and it is important that we respect the community's powers. i am glad that we have reached conclusions after looking at how the implants can be made safe. these proposals can be supported by my group. at the same time, we want to protect very much both the principle of subsidiarity and the member states' prerogatives. however, the proposal does not respect the existing principle of subsidiarity in all its points, for example in paragraph 3 on the design of care. i also want to warn you about patient record systems. if i may take the country i know best as an example, i can say that we have had a recent discussion there because a very large number of patients have been surprised that sensitive medical information has been recorded and then used in an unacceptable way. we cannot therefore support the arguments made about eu-wide registers. this is something that each member state must examine with very, very great caution. as to the age limit, we may want to avoid any forbidden fruit. by setting an age limit, i think we make this even more appealing. this is something we have to do differently. i think that many of us think that it is very ridiculous and dangerous to do implants, but we should not set this at european level. it has been very interesting to read the reports which parliament has commissioned together with the commission. it can only be said that the precautionary principle is very difficult to apply in practice. i think that is what the reports on this whole matter have shown us. it is clear, for example, that attempts to impose, for example, total bans have sometimes been made in a somewhat uncertain field.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, i would first like to draw attention to the statement by mr lindh, the president of the council, that it was an accident that we were not able to discuss human rights here today. i also welcome the little act of contrition of president barón crespo, who regretted that this debate could not take place today. it is a very, very big mistake, because i know that sweden is very committed to human rights policy, and now this opportunity for dialogue with sweden has unfortunately been lost. mr president, for my group, göteborg is above all the summit on sustainable development. we have waited for this for a long time and we do not want to lose this opportunity. the issue of sustainable development must not be overlooked by the top brass, but must now be taken seriously. in this context, i have a personal confession to make. i was a little impatient when the commission seemed to be failing to complete its own proposal on sustainable development, and at the stockholm summit i said that commission president prodi was ecologically illiterate. i now have to withdraw this statement because i have read the president of the commission's ideas on sustainable development and i consider them to be very valuable. he is proposing binding targets and is prepared to take binding measures to disconnect economic growth from transport growth, for example. but unfortunately it is feared that the summit will not be able to do the same, namely to set quantitative targets. i am perhaps a little disappointed in the efforts made by sweden as the presidency, which could have gone further. the kyoto protocol is certainly a key issue in gothenburg. i welcome the fact that commission president prodi wants to take the debate beyond the kyoto objectives. i completely disagree with president poettering when he says that nuclear power must be included in the alternative package. there is no technology more outdated than that, and i would like to warn that under the shadow of climate policy nuclear power is indeed making a comeback. my group is saying a firm no to this development. we want to invest in alternatives. enlargement is also on the agenda in gothenburg and my group would like to emphasize that enlargement must continue, regardless of the result of the irish referendum. the irish people have never wanted to oppose enlargement, which must be clearly stated and sent as a signal to the applicant countries. i think that the irish referendum result cannot be dismissed as a sign that we can continue as if nothing had happened, but should be taken as a clear signal that the european union must be democratized, that citizens must be able to participate in the preparation of constitutional questions. they can no longer be dealt with behind closed doors. we must therefore speed up the introduction of this convention model, even to the extent that decisions can be taken before laeken. this means that the applicant countries must also be able to participate fully in this process. we need more democracy, more referendums, more participation, not less.
- mr president, the amendments in finnish to this report were not received in the plenary until this morning, which means that the last 14 amendments to the report in my own language were not received until this morning. i think this is a bad time. i do not, however, ask that the vote on the report be postponed because of this, but i would just like the house to know that this is not going to happen, that these amendments will be so late in my mother tongue. (applause) i would like to thank the
in writing. - (fi) in addition to the fact that i voted in favour of the declaration on the meeting of the european council in gothenburg, i should like to make the following points as explanations of vote: environmental issues will be the main theme of the european council in gothenburg this week for the first time. the sustainable development strategy gives concrete content to community policy by combining the economy, employment and the environment. this is an important step towards making the european union a responsible actor in international cooperation, which is perfectly illustrated by the fact that the eu is a visible defender of the kyoto protocol. it will be necessary to ensure that the sustainable development strategy does not remain in the shadow of the other topics discussed at the summit. the european union leaders will have to do everything possible in gothenburg to get the united states to reverse its negative decision on kyoto. the us academy of sciences itself being unanimous in its support for the protocol, the bush administration should have no problem in joining the ranks of the responsible countries. the decision of the irish to vote against ratification of the treaty of nice must be taken seriously. the european union's working methods must be reconsidered, transparency strengthened. since experts believe that even the heads of state who negotiated the treaty of nice are not fully aware of the implications of the treaty, it is worth asking how one can even reasonably take a position on this treaty. we must now give our full support to a transparent model of preparation for the future reform of the european union. citizens must be able to follow what is happening in the european union and the reform of the institutions cannot derogate from this principle.
- mr president, the organisation of the working time of road transport workers affects the working conditions of the workers and also the efficiency of logistics. the scope of the directive is the central issue in the whole case. the compromise reached in the council excludes commercial drivers from the directive. i think that parliament should also accept this compromise. self-employed drivers should not be subject to any artificial limitation of their total working time. this would lead to an increase in bureaucracy and make it more difficult for small businesses to operate. it would also interfere with the use of the entrepreneur's leisure time in a way that would be impossible to control. the issue is not relevant from the point of view of road safety, since the driving time of selfemployed drivers is already regulated by other provisions. the second point i would like to mention is the additional limitation of working time in relation to night work. it would increase congestion, reduce road safety and increase costs.
- mr president, i too would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the successful preparation of their reports. these reports have highlighted the essential aspects of improving maritime safety, and there is still a lot of work to be done in this sector. in order to minimise accidents, it is necessary to improve the identification of ships, to extend the reporting obligation and to simplify the procedures for transmitting and using data, while also taking into account the different circumstances. the compensation criteria must respect the principles of the international system, which are the basis of the commission's proposal. the range of damages that are eligible for compensation and those that are to be compensated should not be widened. however, the victims of an oil spill shall be entitled to full compensation for the losses resulting from the damage. the european compensation fund is not the only way to solve problems. the first priority should be to seek solutions at international level and the oil industry must also contribute to the financing of the fund. the maritime safety agency will be set up to assist the member states and the commission in the application of community law. the agency's mandate is quite broad, so good cooperation with the member states is important. however, the representation of the different institutions on the management board is not necessary and their views will be taken into account in any event. in addition to further tightening the rules, it is necessary to ensure that the solutions are realistic and also feasible. my group considers it important that the proposals be adopted quickly and that progress be made on security matters. i would also like to point out that solutions to improve maritime safety within the union alone are not enough. for example, liability issues must be addressed on a global basis.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank mr collins for his excellent report. the continuous growth of air traffic is putting pressure on aviation safety. precautions for safety are essential. although air travel has been a relatively safe form of transportation, congestion at airports and in the airspace has increased the risk of accidents. most accidents are caused by human factors. aviation is becoming more technical and increasingly reliant on the ability of the ground organisation to provide safe air navigation services. it is therefore important to know how these services operate. the collection, storage and exchange of information on occurrences are key to improving the level of civil aviation safety. it is important that information on accidents and incidents is communicated both within and between member states. member states should exchange experience and information in order to avoid more and more dangerous situations. however, as mr collins states in his own report, the protection of personal and business data must be guaranteed when the communication of information on security deficiencies is developed. member states should report annually on the level of civil aviation safety. where the accident or incident is the result of serious negligence, member states shall have the right to initiate legal proceedings. i believe that cooperation between member states to improve civil aviation safety is an important precaution in view of the growth in air traffic. the safety of european airspace is a common interest for all.
- mr president, commissioner, i too would like to thank the rapporteur, mr linkohr, for his excellent report. our group supports the main lines of the report. the union's dependence on oil imports is growing alarmingly at the same time as oil availability is becoming more difficult and prices are rising. the overall union strategy shall aim at reducing europe's dependence on energy imports. at the same time, there is a need for effective dialogue with the groups of oil-producing countries, as the report states. i would like to mention cooperation with russia in this context. the gas and oil resources of the barents region, among others, also constitute an important reserve for europe's energy supply. the union must also make more determined efforts to replace oil with other energy sources. in particular, renewable energy sources and biofuels can replace part of oil consumption while contributing to the kyoto objectives. this requires the union to devote more resources to research and promotion of renewable energy. nor should we underestimate the importance of local renewable fuels, which can be scientifically proven to be renewable, such as peat in some areas, cork waste in others or olive seeds, for example. energy conservation is also an important means of reducing dependence on oil. one example is the increased emphasis on energy in construction and transport. the simplest way to save energy is to improve the energy efficiency of buildings by harmonising the building code towards energy efficiency. at the same time, oil-based raw materials can be replaced by renewable materials such as wood. in transport, oil consumption can be reduced by better design, new technology, environmentally friendly modes of transport and investment in research into fuels to replace petrol.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr linkohr for his report. i think that we are not dependent on oil, but on cars and transport. we're all dependent on them. they're about to eat 70% of the oil. they surround this building and all the european parliaments and all the offices, the same ones that eat our oil. who's ever heard of a car-free office? they don't exist. well, engine technology can be changed and fuels developed, but the real efficient solution is to reduce traffic or to convert it to tracks, as has been shown. the rapporteur proposes tighter windows. it's a good saving, 20 percent of the oil would be saved. we did it in our country 25 years ago: triple windows. what's the matter, man? transporting energy is one problem. i support local energy. for example, we have 30% of finland's land area in marshes. we use less than 1% of it, and we don't have to transport it anywhere. they're the right solutions. so we think that this use of peat as a yearly increase is wise. but it is clear that we are not going to make these savings. renewable energy is not moving fast enough. so we have to do something else, and i think that's either nuclear or natural gas. let us take natural gas, which is in the northern barents region, as mr pohjamo said. there's an incredible amount of it, more than in the caspian basin. it could be the tip of the northern dimension. i thank the honourable member for the energy dialogue with russia, but we must give it a boost. my proposal is to put a joint venture between the union and russia to make shortcuts. the russian partners are big and they're used to shortcuts. they provide momentum and at the same time develop legislation. besides, there's war in the caucasus and peace in the north. there's nothing there but polar bears and quiet scandinavian rivers. that cooperation would work, and we would have energy security.
- mr president, i would like to use the explanation of vote on my voting behaviour in the hughes report. i voted against all the committee's amendments. i do not think that these amendments have anything to do with safety, road safety and health, but only with making it more difficult for small and mediumsized transport undertakings. we already have regulation 3820/85 on driving and rest periods, which also regulates the appropriate driving and rest periods for small hauliers. this directive talks about total working time, and i find it outrageous that the european parliament is trying to regulate the total working time of a private entrepreneur for the benefit of his own company, and i voted absolutely against all these amendments.
- mr president, commissioner, on behalf of the liberal group, i would like to thank the commission and the rapporteur for this excellent work, which is not only aimed at simplifying administration but, this time, also at a good goal for the farmer: simplifying the application procedure for aid. in that sense, this opening is a very large opening in principle. when you travel to any part of the eu, when you talk to farmers, the first and only thing you encounter is that the bureaucracy, the red tape and the difficulties associated with it create a very negative image of farmers. this is particularly important for small farmers. in the long term, the scheme should be further developed to include rural development measures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the system is properly implemented. i am very surprised that the commission is taking the line of cementing the performance of the scheme at a standard level without any index adjustments. the rapporteur has rightly intervened and pointed out that outside the system, the agenda solutions offer the possibility of increasing aid. i think this is a very important point. in order to make the scheme attractive also to farms seeking to develop their activities, the proposal from our committee to increase the level of aid is justified. the level is debatable, but the principle is particularly important in this particular case. therefore, this experiment, which is now experimental, temporary, is very worthwhile.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it has been said by previous speakers that we have repeatedly condemned the violence in afghanistan and the human rights violations that take place every day. but what are we to do when the situation worsens for the women and the hazaras mentioned today? we have a situation where 170 civilians were executed in january and, as dupuis and the others mentioned, attacks in yakaolang. what are we gonna do? on the other hand, we know that after the tampere summit in 1999, the eu approved a recommendation by a high-level working group on how we should deal with the afghan situation. i think that strategy needs to be rigorously evaluated. we'll have to go over it again. how do our embassies in pakistan deal with people who apply to come to our countries? i've heard that they're treated like criminals, among other things. i'm glad to see we're looking for an echo office in afghanistan, which should be repeated. we must also give our support to the christian organizations operating in afghanistan. there are christian organizations that are doing a tremendous amount for the afghan people, with a low profile. they too need our support. we must also work, as other speakers have said, to bring about an arms embargo and to allow the united nations to enter the country to investigate, among other things, the atrocities committed against the hazaras. these are some of the measures needed. we can't get any further by condemning over and over again. you feel really powerless. we need smarter policy here. i think that the experience of our neighbouring countries has shown that a presence in the country can also produce good results and is above all humanitarian.
mr president, i would like to thank you. everyone, at least in finland, has probably played a game called africa's star. every time we discuss sierra leone or angola, i think with horror of this game which was regarded as such, while at the same time it showed in a bloody way - whether in angola or in sierra leone - that what could actually be a blessing for a country could be its curse. dear friends, i actually think we're starting to see signs of a more intelligent policy in terms of monitoring resources. we have seen many proposals for peace, the lusaka protocol, peace proposals in sierra leone and the like, but as long as war pays better than peace we shall not get very far. i therefore strongly support what maes said, namely that this is the way we must go forward. i also think that canada, which has started sanctions work, deserves our support and is a point of reference for our activities in the field of sanctions work, work against landmines and work against child soldiers. we are about to embark on a similar and equally ambitious endeavour. interestingly, many speakers of the angolan language still speak it today. i also believe that many of us feel bad about what we have said earlier about angola. we have all contributed to this tragedy in our own way. it is now time to put an end to this, to look at what is being pointed out in the un reports - also in the reports commissioned by the parliaments of the member states - and to also point to the presidents, the rulers of togo or burkina faso, who have in their way contributed to buying diamonds or oil. as regards the world bank, which was mentioned in the debate, i believe that it can be a very positive actor in africa, for example by monitoring the revenue that the government of angola receives from oil management.
- mr president, i would like to thank the swedish presidency in particular for its consistent efforts to promote environmental issues and for having placed the environment, along with economic and social issues, at the centre of political attention during its six-month presidency. unfortunately, only the council as a whole has not been able to achieve the level of progressivity on environmental matters that the presidency would have deserved by its own actions. the last conciliation has taken place, perhaps not at the level of ambition that parliament would have liked, but there is no doubt that the swedish presidency has made a real effort to achieve results. sustainable development is an important step towards integrating the environment into european policy. the strengthening of the ecological pillar of sustainable development is also necessary because, when sustainability is monitored on an annual basis, the ecological pillar must be able to set clear objectives in order to allow this traceability. we must have measurable objectives, quantitative and qualitative objectives, sufficient perspectives on how the state of the environment is monitored, so that we are able to tackle the threats we face adequately. i think the swedish presidency went quite well otherwise, but it would have been very desirable to have the decision on the food authority at the gothenburg summit, because work should start immediately.
- mr president, mr president of the european central bank, the first 30 months of the european central bank's existence can be described as a success. the bank has achieved medium-term monetary stability despite the sudden rise in oil prices, the high volatility of the foreign exchange market and the increased tensions in the money markets. citizens' confidence in the european central bank is primarily based on price stability. it is important for citizens that the currency is stable and that real earnings and purchasing power are preserved. however, confidence can also be enhanced by increasing the transparency and traceability of the ecb's activities. transparency is a daily reality for the national central banks, and it should be the same for the european central bank. the changeover to the euro is a unique event in economic history, without precedent of comparable proportions. the introduction of the single currency is a tangible demonstration of the progress made in european integration. our citizens expect us to do everything we can to ensure a smooth transition to the euro. it is important that careful preparation avoids unnecessary problems and thus also the creation of negative images among citizens. but we have to remember the basics. the euro will not be caught up in the practical problems of a two- or three-week transition period. if it falls somewhere, it falls because the currency is not stable and strong enough. our single currency is only as strong as the economy behind it. a strong economy, sound business structures and a functioning internal market are essential foundations for citizens' confidence and the union's global competitiveness. in this context, i would like to mention my concern about the fate of the directive on corporate governance which will be discussed tomorrow. the directive was 12 years in the making. after a long handshake, the european parliament and the council reached an agreement in the conciliation procedure. if the directive is dropped tomorrow, we can say that we heard a lot of fine words in lisbon, but we need action here. the value of our single currency depends very much on these actions, both by parliament, the council and all the institutions of the union.
- mr president, i too agree that pension policy is a very big challenge. for the younger generation in europe, this is perhaps the greatest challenge we will face in the field of economic and social policy in the coming decades. open coordination is of course a positive thing and i wholeheartedly support it. it is good that the commission is now looking for indicators and also trying to increase public debate on this very important subject. my question is whether you see the possibility of taking a little more drastic measures, i.e. whether in future, for example, the stability and growth pact, the employment guidelines, and other somewhat more binding documents of this type could also address pension policy issues, and for example give warnings to those member states which do not manage their pension policies properly and ensure that in the future, with reasonable funding, good quality pensions can be paid to european pensioners in a sustainable way.
- mr president, it is very positive to hear that the commissioner is not afraid of a trade war, but is very positive about the idea that such important political objectives as those set by the european parliament, such as the ban on the marketing of cosmetic products tested on animals, are political decisions, not protectionist, and it is therefore important that our representatives defend these issues on the international stage. you yourself have already indicated that the question of whether the method of production, and not just the final product, can be taken into account more in these trade issues in the future, could be raised at the next wto round. have there been any discussions about this? could you shed some more light on this reference? do you believe in this possibility?
- mr. speaker, it's always great to be the last one to ask a question at this question hour. i am very pleased that the commission has taken a positive view on the distribution of networks. at present, the various ways in which it could be implemented are still open. i also understand your view that the competition rules must of course be respected and that these concrete assessments can only be made once you have in your hands applications and notifications on the subject. you also indicated that it is possible that the commission could issue such specific guidelines on this matter if the need arises. i would also like to ask you to confirm that you believe that all the possible ways of distributing networks - both regional and other ways you mentioned - are also available from the point of view of competition. is this your last sighting?
mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to thank all the parties involved, and especially our rapporteur, for the constructive approach he has taken. mr karas has done a remarkable job with this proposal for a directive. the sustainability of pensions will be one of the biggest challenges which our societies will have to face in the coming decades. occupational retirement provisions will play an important role in this connection in many member states. the question of whether the coverage of biometric risks should be made mandatory has been one of the biggest issues for parliament. i will concentrate on that issue. i should like to point out a few reasons why the coverage of biometric risks or guarantees should be kept optional. firstly, beneficiaries in many member states already have cover for these risks via separate insurance products. citizens should not be forced to pay twice for cover they do not need. secondly, biometric risk cover is expensive and this expense is passed on to the beneficiaries. mandatory biometric risk cover will cost each citizen, at a conservative estimate, around 1-3% of annual returns per year. compounded over a 40-year savings period this could significantly reduce overall scheme returns. thirdly, mandatory biometric risk cover will also damage the level playing field by providing an advantage to insurance providers. the european citizen will benefit if he or she can choose from a wide variety of providers. fourthly, i fully agree with some of the previous speakers. if we want to promote the second pillar we need to get employers excited about the new rules. if the rules are too restrictive and costly to the company they will probably have no voluntary supplementary scheme at all. finally, i say to mr kuckelkorn that we cannot secure something which does not exist. the worst case scenario for beneficiaries is that there are no flourishing second pillar pensions at all. security can only come after that.
- mr president, the most important renewable energy source is hydroelectricity. without it, the share of renewable energy sources in the eu's energy production would be very small, although the significant share of wind power in denmark cannot be underestimated. other renewable energy sources are already harder to find. the council's position that the incineration of mixed waste should be counted as renewable energy is not sustainable. hydropower needs to be supplemented by other forms of energy than waste incineration. parliament also called for the eu to take action to combat climate change, and for the eu to take action to combat climate change. but the time is so short that the realization of the goal may be wishful thinking. the low level of funding for the altener programme shows that the eu has little influence on the achievement of the objective. the achievement of this objective is entirely up to the member states.
the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism has drawn up an opinion. - mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs niebler, for her efforts on this important matter. the increasing use of radio frequencies is making them a more limited and valuable commodity. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, i would like to stress the importance of the transport sector and the equal right of every mode of transport to use radio frequencies for operational purposes and above all to ensure the safety of passengers. for example, air and sea transport are entirely dependent on the use of radio frequencies. the different needs of the regions must also be taken into account. the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted some of the amendments tabled by our committee, but not all. i have tabled two amendments on behalf of our group, which reflect the views of our committee. amendment no 24 concerns the regional aspect. it recalls that different circumstances such as population density and distances, industrial structure and transport conditions must be taken into account when harmonising radio frequencies. amendment no 25 is about transparency. the publication of information on the use of frequencies is important, but it is only useful if the information contained in the publication contains all the elements necessary for the efficient use of the information. transparency is about making effective use of unused spectrum. the annex to the proposal is too general and it seems to confuse the reservation of spectrum for different purposes with the allocation of spectrum to users. i hope that we can support these two amendments.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank you for the attention given to the work of the echelon committee in the finnish media tonight. that's one of the big stories of the day. i would also like to say to the commissioner that we seem to have got into the habit of celebrating tuesday evenings together here. all the usual suspects, like we are in these matters. it's almost absurd, my best friends. the rapporteur and the previous speakers have stressed the importance of an efficient use of the new shortfall frequencies. it's important that we have transparency in that practice. as mr pohjamo said, it is also important to state the conditions for the frequencies used. it should also be possible to reserve frequencies for services of general interest under specific conditions. as has been pointed out, it is really the institutional issues that are difficult. i am personally a little afraid that we have worked quite so fast and that we are working out quite a lot of hierarchies. we are talking about technical implementing provisions. we also discuss the political level and the mandates given to cept. in other words, the system is quite complicated. our group proposed the call back procedure. i hope, however, that we can agree that what is referred to in this context as technical implementing measures does not include technical matters. otherwise we would be going too far into cept territory. there are also certain other aspects which would need to be corrected tomorrow. there is still a proposal to send observers to the high level group. the parliament's proposal includes both a high-level group and a committee. we cannot have both representation in a high-level group and a call back procedure. it's cake on cake. i think we'll have until tomorrow to figure out how to correct this.
- mr president, i would like to thank mrs niebler for her very well-written report. radio frequencies have become the main means of communication, the source of money and power. in the absence of a uniform distribution policy, the third generation mobile phone business went through what we all know: one company a week goes bankrupt in the industry today. in other member states, no levy was levied at all, while in others there were still mixed forms. so the result of all this was a confusing situation and also unemployment. this was supposed to be our lead in the world competition. as radio waves cross borders, it is clear that we need pan-european principles for their management, because 15 different interpretations of the same subject is a market barrier, to put it bluntly. the eeurope strategy calls for equal access for all. this makes it much more difficult, and this kind of contradiction must be removed. at the same time, cultural diversity must be supported, and i am referring to the broadcasting sector, for example, which must have the necessary frequencies. these are the political decisions that i accept, but when commercial decisions are taken, there must be a level playing field, whether it is an auction or some other procedure, but the same procedure throughout europe, so that this system is not on the verge of collapse as it is now. i therefore support amendments nos 22 and 23 and the oral amendment tabled by mrs mann. i think that is how we will balance these areas and understand what is important and what is business.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, mr prime minister, during your presidency we are on a long and winding road, starting in nice and ending in laeken. as we have seen in gothenburg, there have also been stones along this road. dublin also fell on this journey. in dublin, citizens said they did not want to go down this road without a fundamental change of plans. i ask you now, then, whether we must return to nice to reach laeken. my own view is that there were serious mistakes in nice which must be corrected. there was an unfair treatment of the future member states, for example, not all of them were given their rightful share of the seats in the european parliament. secondly, it was not able to consolidate and clarify the decision-making procedures of the european union. you yourself gave an example of this: there are more than thirty instruments in use and it is really not clear how the european union works. i believe that the european union can continue to enlarge even if the treaty of nice is not ratified in its present form, and you, mr prime minister, have a great opportunity in this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the most important thing is that this journey is undertaken and that the future member states can also take part in this work, that is, in the convention to be established in laeken. you mentioned globalization. i was pleased to note that during your presidency, the tobin tax, which is a subject of much discussion in civil society, will be discussed. i think you have a great opportunity to show that you understand what president prodi said, namely that globalisation is also causing problems, it is dividing european societies in two and it is also increasing the division of societies worldwide. please show that you understand this concern so that globalisation can also be used to develop the european social model, which you have included among your objectives. i also mention the forthcoming climate negotiations which will begin in two weeks' time in bonn. you must use all your diplomatic skills to get the united states, japan and australia back to the negotiating table. my group will give you all the support you need to continue the work that sweden has started on sustainable development. i realize that we now have a council president on a bicycle, but we also have a commission president on a bicycle. i believe that you will understand that the environmental problem of transport and mobility is one of the issues on the belgian presidency's agenda. i can say in this connection that the president of the council represents my group in the transport council and is doing a very good job. finally, as we approach laeken, the first thing that comes to our attention is the king's mighty castle. but do not make this european council a royal event of the past, where decisions are made over the heads of the citizens, but remember that what is needed above all is democracy and transparency; do not build any more castles for the european summits in brussels! it would not be a good signal to the citizens. i hope, however, that your presidency will be at least half as popular as that of a certain well-known royal princess, mathilde, in your country. if you succeed in this, then a great deal of work has been done during your presidency.
- your honor, my case is similar. i would ask that the minutes take account of the mistake in the finnish version of the common position on the roth report. article 2 (b) on definitions should read as follows: 'biodegradable fraction of products, waste and waste products from agriculture, including plant and animal matter, forestry and related industries, and biodegradable fraction of industrial and municipal waste from biomass'. so now the word "product" has been dropped from the english version. i have not found this passage missing in other language versions.
- mr president, i find it very regrettable that the compromise reached in the conciliation procedure was rejected today by the narrowest possible margin. this corporate governance directive was and is an important part of the final implementation of the european internal market. it was a very long preparation, twelve years, and i hope that after this stupid vote the work will not be completely wasted, that is to say i hope that the work to establish uniform rules for corporate governance in the european community will continue and perhaps one day we will find a compromise on this matter which will secure a majority in this house. i would also like to raise the question of how this will affect capital flows into europe. i think it is very worrying that we made ambitious plans in lisbon last year, which seem to have been left to the winds. the rejection of this directive shows that we lack the political will to take the lisbon decisions forward.
- mr president, we have just voted on the definition of renewable energy sources, which also clarifies the concept of biomass. it was found that biomass refers to the biodegradable part of products from agriculture, forestry and related industries. although parliament has unfortunately not repeated the definition we adopted last time, which states that peat is counted as renewable in so far as it is renewed annually, i would point out that the version now adopted includes peat implicitly. because every gardener knows that peat is a biodegradable product. it's completely biodegradable, of course, because it's biologically born. bacterial and microbial activity will degrade it if it is lifted from its oxygen-free state. it's also decomposing on the surface of the swamp. this is the basis of the peat growth theory: a bog grows where more peat is produced than is lost. i hope that, given these facts and given that they will not change, parliament, the commission and the council will make the implicit explicit and will clearly mention the matter in future. i hope so, in the name of environmental protection. in my own amendment, which parliament adopted in november, i set limits on the use of peat: no capital would be taken into account, only interest would be used. the environmental groups, who based their position on outdated knowledge about the carbon cycle of soybeans, paradoxically opposed my formulation against the prevention of the exploitation of soybeans, and here's the result: greed has a sad ending, probably also greed for the environment. i hope we can continue this conversation.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the debate on this report has in many ways demonstrated the intolerable lightness of human rights in the heavy daily political pressure. yet, human rights, even called the last secular religion of our time, are more fundamental to politics today. politics is necessary so that we do not have to look history in the eye. but at the same time, the fact that human rights are not just a convenient tool for pursuing political ends, at worst an alibi for the actions or inaction dictated by real politics, can be obscured. human rights are thematic, systematic and above all normative. they are the result of our cultural evolution, they represent the values on which the development of the european union, including the historical change, is anchored. they must not and cannot be sacrificed on the altar of mere political expediency or rhetorical commitments. for the eu to one day have a genuine common foreign and security policy, it must build on a common human rights strategy. right now, i think we're going in the right direction. internally, the eu's own charter of fundamental rights and externally, the eu's annual human rights report and, in particular, the commission's recent communication, contain valuable elements for improving human rights work. the belgian presidency, whose foreign minister michel is pleased to be here to participate in this debate, has stressed the need for greater coherence and consistency, which hopefully goes beyond the requirements of mere political correctness, as well as the need for human rights transparency and clear priorities, which are also complemented by the conclusions of the general affairs council of 25 june 2001. the annual report stressed the importance of dialogue and cooperation between governments and civil society. as commissioner patten said at the first eu human rights forum held under the finnish presidency in 1999, it would be intellectual vandalism to ignore the views of ngos that are not committed to governments, as the knowledge and experience of the european human rights community is unparalleled anywhere in the world. but we must start by improving our own methods of doing things. if there is no strategy, tactics become strategy, which means that ad hoc political actions are of a nature to supersede the fundamental and self-evident principles of human rights and the rule of law. we read them to others with great enthusiasm, but we are able to ignore them for compelling political reasons, as we did just last week in the case of the sudden extradition of slobodan milosevic. although it was a major legal and political milestone, it reflected the emerging new doctrine that the state can be forced to back down when universal human rights take precedence. we must also be consistent in our criticism of third countries, and in particular of certain applicant countries, including turkey. for harsh criticism to be justified, it must be based on fair play and equal treatment. otherwise, eu enlargement may become increasingly like the backstage dialogue of the potemkin, with applicants making cosmetic changes to accommodate the demands of the eu behind a deceptive, even hypocritical, facade. this year's human rights report, adopted unanimously by the committee on foreign affairs, human rights and common security and defence policy, contains a number of proposals to strengthen the eu's human rights policy towards third countries. in this context, thematic selections would seem to be the best way forward, as is already the case with the eu guidelines and common position on the death penalty and torture. while dialogue and transparency between the eu's own experts is of paramount importance, we should also be able to use more boldly the means already in place to prevent conflicts and promote human rights, such as human rights clauses in agreements with third countries, for example when it comes to russia. the report focuses on freedom of expression, not only because it is threatened by traditional and new dangers, but also because it is of strategic importance in improving and exposing violations of all human rights, both first, second and third generation rights. it would be naive to underestimate the importance of human rights. it is high time to put the principles into practice and to take decisive and pragmatic action to create a unified human rights strategy for the whole of the eu.
- mr president, i would like to thank mr wuorta for his excellent report. slavery was abolished in the 19th century; now it is estimated that four million people a year are sold from their homelands, and the number is growing. global markets are so free that even human bodies now have market value. the violent trafficking of life is focused on the poor. some poor people are literally raised from the dead when their organs are transplanted into living people. the problem is that the violation of human rights has become increasingly profitable, and the protection of human rights is costing money in a society of greed. so we have a problem with this kind of greed. the broader issue is the deadening of the human brain into a business domain. the worldwide mass entertainment of television creates a false world, a virtual world, in which all kinds of commerce and democratic triviality flourish. the internet has become a powerful tool for the international sex trade, and the lack of legislation is also due to the fact that many people believe that internet freedom should not be restricted. i propose that we establish a european body to create the rules for the protection of privacy in the information society. human rights do not work where they are violated both mentally and physically.
- mr president, in politics there is a great temptation to consider all things as negotiable issues to be agreed between people. to remind us of what we are dealing with, let us recall a few facts about global warming. i would point out that there is already ample scientific evidence for this, that global warming is a cold fact. we have one party to the negotiations, nature, which does not compromise, it just is. the latest time series for sea water temperatures tell us what we have known for a long time about air temperatures. the oceans have warmed 0.6 degrees in the last 100 years, and the trend is accelerating. for average temperature, this change is very large. mountain glaciers are melting, 85 percent of them retreating at an accelerating rate, at worst several tens of meters a year. the andean lowlands are in danger of disappearing completely. the ice cover of the arctic ocean has shrunk by 25 percent in the last three years. the ice sheet in the northern continental regions is melting rapidly, especially in central siberia and alaska. this also has far-reaching implications for the exploitation of natural resources in those areas. if we allow warming to continue, the worst-case scenario feared for northwest europe could occur: warming could reverse the north atlantic ocean currents so that the climate in northern fennoscandia would become the opposite, freezing, again as a result of warming. as the glaciers melt, the atlantic pump ceases to function, and the warm gulf stream and its continuation, the north atlantic current, from the tropics, stop flowing. the result could be a cooling of the whole of north-west europe, which, according to the paleoclimatological data, could occur catastrophically fast. the same facts are coming at us from every direction. recently, the red cross also confirmed what other aid agencies have said: experience with increased natural disasters shows that change can be attributed to global warming. if we don't act and pressure others to act quickly, this news will grow exponentially. we have to make it in bonn.
- mr president, the package before us concerns the eu's accounts for the past year, its own resources and next year's budget. i would like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteurs, mrs haug, mr ferber and mr costa neves. last year's financial results are astonishing, with a surplus of over 11 billion euros. this is because revenue was eur 3,3 billion higher than forecast and expenditure eur 8,5 billion lower than forecast. increasing revenue is a good thing. the savings made are, on the contrary, apparent, because they are based primarily on the poor underutilisation of the structural funds. the commission has also decided to extend the deadline for the submission of applications for the granting of a community guarantee to the eib against losses under loans for projects in the following sectors: these payments are carried over to subsequent years, so that no real savings have been made. the main reason for the low use was the slow adoption of new target programmes. only half of the eu's objective 1 programmes were adopted in 2000, almost two years after the berlin agenda 2000 decision. only 8% of objective 2 programmes were approved. for the second year in a row, no funds were spent on the new community initiatives. the administrative performance is abysmal. the commission needs to improve its performance considerably. it must take responsibility for the efficient and timely handling of matters. the current neglect will be reflected in the congestion of the budgets of the following years. another feature of the accounts is the calculation of the uk's contribution credit. it is strange that in this supplementary budget there are corrections going back to the financial years four and two years ago. why have these corrections not been made in time? the costa neves report provides a good basis for negotiations for next year. preliminary estimates show that administrative expenditure under heading 5 will exceed the financial perspective, mainly due to an increase in council expenditure of over 9%. this is due to the increase in expenditure on the common foreign and security policy. parliament must firmly uphold its demand that a separate staff structure be drawn up for the administrative structure of this policy. this expenditure is not covered by the agreement between parliament and the council on the non-interference of the institutions in each other's budgets.
- i'm talking about my own money. the tables of own resources annexed to mrs haug's report do not give a true picture of the contributions of the various member states. it must be said out loud that the united kingdom is one of the economic freeriders of the eu. it's been given a discount on membership fees. the conclusions of the report should include that the united kingdom should be required to pay the levy on the same basis as the others. the report's statistics are also embellished by the customs duties levied by the united kingdom on behalf of the eu. the dutch and belgian contributions are further embellished by customs duties, since they also levy customs duties on goods coming into other countries. the netherlands and belgium are not as big net contributors as the statistics suggest. the conclusions of the report call for the introduction of a specific european tax. it's not a coincidence. the belgian presidency has also indicated that it will pursue the matter. there are two views on this matter in our group. the tax is favoured by those who are guided by the spirit of european federalism, while those who want to preserve national sovereignty oppose the right to tax the eu. federalism is the making of the european union a federation. if the eu is given the right to tax, we will be following the path indicated by the federalists. as a representative of the taxpayers of a small net-paying country, i cannot support european taxation for federal purposes. the conclusion of mrs haug's report is too radical.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in my culture, the fisherwomen represent the strongest and bravest thing there is. i also think that tonight's debate, again with almost all women, shows that those of us in this debate may be descended from these brave and strong women on the coasts. best friends of all time. political movements that have long advocated the very principles contained in the document have been derided in many contexts. the movement i represent nationally has long stood for the principles we are now talking about, but we have suffered much ridicule. it is important that we support the binding recommendations that are being made to member states so that we can get out of a situation where one hand does not know what the other is doing and fisheries are perhaps even more threatened with extinction than many natural species. we have an uneven situation with uneven protection of what is found in coastal areas. we also have a situation where we want more shipping but we do not want to protect it. the rapporteur asked why our group opposes a binding legal framework, but the explanations she has given have not convinced us. we need a legal basis for our activities, but not a binding regulatory framework. we have to rely on local activity and local coordination.
- (sv) mr president, madam commissioner, this is, in fact, a directive designed, for example, by the finnish leisure industry, which considers it important that we have uniform rules on this matter. it is important that we have in mind a development verified, for example, by our four-stroke engines, an aspect which is contemplated in the commission's proposal. i think that this proposal, together with the improvements we are introducing, will reduce emissions significantly. the reduction in the average. in this way, we can contribute to an improvement in the quality of sensitive aquatic environments. as a finnish citizen, but not necessarily as a representative of the group of the european liberal democrat and reformist party, i must, however, say that i am concerned about the two-party system proposed by the rapporteur. as for the remaining proposals, i think that in many respects they constitute realistic contributions to fill some of the gaps in the commission's proposal, taking into account the costs and a specific case of ships with historical value. i owned a boat for over 30 years, which could not meet these standards. i consider them to be of historical value. in this respect, a proposal is positive, but there is no distinction between the rules applicable to the law of the sea. for example, in a local which both a commissioner and i know well, we can use the same boat, on the same day, in inland navigation and on the open sea. when we build a ship, we don't know what conditions are going to be used. i therefore think that an amendment to rule 15 is impracticable, even in the terms proposed by the rapporteur. there is much to be done in the nautical recreation sector. we also discussed the question of the compulsory use of septic tanks. at least in the case of the baltic sea, this is one of the most problematic environmental issues relating to the shipbuilding industry. i thank the rapporteur for his timely proposal. we are pleased to have registered its adoption by the commission. it is important for the improvement of the quality of the aquatic environment. i believe that the questions raised by mr lange concerning groundwater can be resolved by chance, provided that the circumstances are verified and that other legal instruments are available to do so.
- mr president, i do not intend to join the regular guard of vote interpreters, yesterday the timetables were simply exceeded and unfortunately i was late for the wuore report. the importance of this report is only enhanced by the fact that the eu's human rights policy is clearly in a state of development. it is based on an uncompromising concept of human dignity, for without dignity there are no human rights. it is important that internal eu problems are reported at least as effectively and transparently as those from third countries. when i raised police violence as an internal human rights problem in the eu a year and a half ago, i cannot help but raise it alongside the freedom of expression which is the priority of the committee. the reporting of the violence in the gothenburg summit should be analysed as seriously as the events themselves. as sad as it was to read about the injuries, i read about the rather uncritical attitude of the journalists in reporting the events. it is difficult to defend the freedom of expression of citizens and of the press with credibility if this freedom is increasingly used irresponsibly. while the eu is a global player in human rights, eu citizens are also important models for governments in other countries of what the realisation of freedoms might mean in practice.
in writing. - (fi) i am particularly pleased that the cornillet report - which is otherwise remarkable - has been supplemented by amendments concerning the recognition of same-sex couples. i would have hoped for positions going even further than the report on certain issues. i am thinking for example of the right of gay couples to adopt. unfortunately, human rights problems affecting sexual minorities are still commonplace in many eu member states today. i consider it extremely important that references to the legislation of the candidate countries are made and that equal treatment of citizens, even for different types of couples and families, is taken into account in the enlargement negotiations.
mr president, i would like to thank you. our debate today is something absurd. after we have completed the report, two important documents have come from the commission. i am thinking in particular of the white paper on governance and the communication on information and communication policy. after reading these documents, i am somewhat confused as to how the commission intends to help us monitor the application of community law and how it intends to prioritise the issues involved. firstly, as regards information and communication policy, the communication states that the future of the so-called eurojus system is being studied. contrary to what the communication says, we in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market had learned that this network of specialised lawyers, who can advise citizens and who are working in the commission's delegations in the member states, was seen as valuable by the commission. the june communication now shows that the commission is considering the future of the system and that the functions of these lawyers might be transferred to national administrations. who thinks that a national administration should help a citizen to have a right to that particular administration? secondly, i am puzzled by the fact that the white paper on governance calls for 'networks of similar existing bodies in the member states to deal with disputes involving citizens and eu matters', while at the same time increasing citizens' knowledge of rights under community law. how does the commission intend us to monitor the application of community law? i think we have to think seriously and i think the commission could have been more specific on this particular issue in the white paper.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i should like to begin by saying on behalf of my group that we are extremely pleased that the negotiations have really progressed rapidly over the past year and that one chapter after another has been able to be closed. my group really sees 2004 as one of those target dates, when it is possible - not certain, but possible - that up to 10 new countries may join the european union. the fact that such a large number of people are joining us would of course have the advantage of avoiding new dividing lines between the applicant countries, and i think that is something we must seriously strive for. mr hänsch has well described the enlargement process as one which benefits the present and future member states of the european union; everyone can benefit from it. i would like to stress, however, that this means that we must really be able to create such economic and social dynamics so that these benefits are realised in the pre-accession period. i would like to stress here that my group is stressing that the european model of society, which we hope the applicant countries will also pursue, is a sustainable model of society, which includes the idea that sustainable development must be sustainable not only economically but also ecologically and socially. we must emphasize that the applicant countries must take very seriously the community legislation which seeks to strengthen these sustainable characteristics. it goes without saying that the rights of the child and the principle of non-discrimination are principles which we as europeans must uphold. mr president, our group hopes that additional resources could be used to accelerate this dynamic. this suggests that there may be some resources available in the community financial framework for 2000-06, since there will obviously be no new member states in 2002. the resources thus released could be used as agricultural and structural policy instruments to reinforce this positive dynamic already in the pre-accession period. we would like to see a major change in the common agricultural policy, so that instead of paying direct subsidies to large farmers in the european union or in the applicant countries, these funds are strongly diverted to rural development and quality-oriented food production. finally, mr president, the fundamental flaw in this process is that the level of citizen participation has so far been extremely low. we would like to be involved in thinking about how we can increase the involvement of civil society in the enlargement process also in the candidate countries, because at the moment it is only the narrow elites in society who feel that enlargement is beneficial and who are driving enlargement. however, many people are confused and fearful of harm. the role of women and the fight against poverty must be taken into account, and these are the points our group would like to stress.
(sv) arvoisa puhemies, please refer to the end of this paragraph. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the same term is used in the english language version, but in the french language version of the nationality. the nationality and citizenship are not the same. the european union is a citizen of europe.
(sv) mr president, it is great to be living through this exciting moment in european history, when we are finally uniting the continent. i hope that in a few years' time our new friends and colleagues will be able to sit with us in the chamber instead of just listening to the papers. we can then work together to solve the problems and create good living conditions for the citizens of europe, and it is high time we did so. it is almost 12 years since the berlin wall fell and many europeans promised that the countries that finally threw off the yoke of communism would soon join. there is still a lot to be done, and this is also reflected in the excellent reports we are discussing today. there is considerable progress on this issue and i am pleased with the high ambitions of the belgian presidency. it is important that we do not increase the demands. there is still a lot to be done in the eu. many of us are disappointed by the poor result of the nice summit and we have high hopes for the laeken summit. the european union is a great example of the kind of cooperation that can be achieved by the member states. but together we have the enormous task of convincing the peoples of all countries of the real benefits of a united europe. we must also show that we are proud of the europe we have built so far and the europe we are going to build together.
mr president, as romano prodi said in this debate last year, in europe we are all minorities. today commissioner verheugen said that to live in europe is to live with compromises. to my mind these are crucial to european values. it is for the vast majority to make compromises for the minority. therefore i was unhappy when i learnt that the european parliament rapporteur on slovakia had accused the hungarian minority parties of setting ultimatums and using methods that are used only in wartime when they made their future in the government dependent on an administrative reform. the rapporteur's remark seems very unfair and does not take note of the different steps in the development of self-government at different levels, nor is it consistent with the views expressed by the prime minister of slovakia. the hungarian political representatives have, in spite of the adoption of new administrative borders that were promoted by nationalist and left-wing parties and deprived them of chances of adequate political representation, signalled that they are ready to continue in the government but that their future participation is dependent on giving real content to the administrative laws. that is what we are asking for in resolution no 39. we should refrain from unfounded accusations.
the commission. - mr president, the commission has left the final decisionmaking to the stage where the council and parliament have been consulted. both options have their merits. it's clear that the deal is faster, but it's also a new way of doing things. it is true that a car oil solution has already been made in the past. the legislative route is more traditional and more familiar, but it takes longer, but the commission wants to make this decision now that the opinion cycle has ended.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr gerhard schmidt for his great work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not misused. with the end of the cold war, the vast system at its peak was looking for new tasks. it seems to have gone from spying on enemies to spying on friends. the same thing happened to nato: when the communist system ended, these well-paid painters of the enemy's image suddenly looked for new tasks and seemed to have found them. in fact, it seems that somehow this warlike spirit is still going on in the united states. it's building a missile shield against a threat that's actually hard to find. the recent selfish actions of the new administration in the united states are also puzzling here in multicultural europe. what's going on in there? maybe we should go back and look again, because only one in three of our american colleagues has a passport. they're not exactly the best travelers, as they're known to be. i think we must now have a lasting agreement, at treaty level, that we will not engage in economic espionage against each other, and we must get our main trading partner and friend, the united states, to accept this principle. at the same time, we must ensure that we are able to control the privacy of european union citizens. thirdly, we must constantly monitor this in the relevant committees. it's important work for us.
in writing. - (fi) as an explanation of vote, i would first of all like to say, as regards the votes on the reports on enlargement today, that i agree with the views expressed by mrs patricia mckenna on the implications of enlargement for foreign and security policy. i should also like to point out that i voted in favour of amendment no 4 to the carlsson report by mistake, when in fact i was opposed to this amendment, which i consider to be risky from the point of view of stability in the region.
in writing. - (fi) with regard to the schröder report, i would remind you that nuclear power stations at risk are not just a domestic matter in any country. for this reason, the adoption of points 43 and 44 concerning temelin was important. it is to be hoped that the adoption of these points will send a signal to the czech government and that the zero option will also be seriously considered in the thinking about the future of temelin.
- mr president, i would ask the honourable minister of the presidency whether he has taken note of the fact that the european parliament did not support the proposal for a european tax in its vote in july.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i'd like to thank cederschiöld and cappato for a great job. i am sure that the forum supported by the commission and cederschiöld will bring new issues and new problems to the fore. moreover, the political frontlines are unlikely to be the usual ones. this is also very clear in the current debate on electronic communications. i would point out that the eldr group does not support amendment no 55. i think the committee's proposal is clearer in terms of the storage of traffic data. a minority in the liberal group thinks that we should wait and see about these systems and that we should apply the principle of subsidiarity. we support amendment no 61 on the review clause. we have a humble attitude. we do not believe that it is any of these proposals but that it is the conscious citizens who decide. i think that many of the decision-makers in this house tomorrow are not really aware that the issue of spam is also largely regulated by the general data protection directive. we have a situation, for example in the uk, where 44 per cent of all e-traders are unaware that they are breaking this directive. and besides, people don't know what kind of service they can get. i believe that responsible and conscious consumer behaviour is the most important thing. i come from a country where we have opt-in, but we still can't do anything about people who use changed addresses, for example. we get all kinds of spam all the time. i wonder if we will be required to have some kind of address register in the future. i would like to ask the commission: how do you intend to raise this issue in the transatlantic dialogue, in the global dialogue? what is the truth of what is being said about america's attitude? we've had a lot of different reports on this. many say that the bush administration has no intention of doing anything yet, that it is too early, that it wants to look at the technological developments. i also wonder what the rules are if a european company spams outside the eu. is the directive on electronic commerce or this directive applicable?
mr president, there is a general agreement that we clearly need some reform in some competition rules, and especially in their practical implementation. regulation 1017 has been applied with only little modification since the 1960s. it is therefore understandable that the continued application of this regulation in its current form is no longer consistent with effective supervision of competition. we have to serve our consumers and our companies better with up-to-date rules of application. in my view, in a period of 30 years of implementation, ec competition law has reached a level where decentralising is not only possible, but almost necessary. we are all aware of the workload of the dg for competition and we understand that we have to do something to reduce it, or drastically increase the resources in brussels. at the same time, we hear our voters reminding us how we should respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and that we should avoid centralising all decision making to brussels bureaucrats. in that question, i totally disagree with mr titford. with the reform at hand we are able to achieve many of our objectives. ending the current system of prior notification should benefit business and make more resources available to the commission to concentrate on more serious infringements. ex ante notification should not be replaced with a burdensome registration system. however, the shift to the new regime will not be an easy task. it is of the utmost importance to ensure that competition issues within the eu are treated similarly in all member states. there are many detailed situations where legal certainty might be a danger. personally i, and many of my colleagues from smaller member states, are worried about the definitions of dominant position in the market. companies from member states – especially from the smaller member states – should have equal possibilities to grow in the single market and to achieve a strategic position to compete with the global rivals. the commission decision to say no to the volvo/scania merger was an example of the situation where the relevant market definition was maybe too narrow. the commission should not declare that the market is national or regional if there is clear evidence that is not the case.
- mr president, the controversy over the cost of blood donation which is being discussed in the context of mr nistico's excellent report is a multi-dimensional, ethical and practical issue, and much more serious than one might conclude from the debate. i made a proposal for an amendment on the free donation of blood together with my colleague mr grossetête, and the committee accepted it. i would appeal to my colleagues to maintain this position now. several patient and governmental groups have appealed to parliament to stop the commercialisation of blood donation. first of all, there is a security risk. allowing payment schemes to change the donor material increases the overall risk: comparative studies show that the health status of paid donors is lower. the emphasis here is on testing, and it's a good one. but with hiv, for example, there's a certain window in the disease where the virus is not yet detected in the test. there's also an ethical risk. i want to emphasize that we also have a responsibility for how the rest of the world copies our practices. if we allow the trade in human body parts, in blood, we must take into account the fact that the developing countries are following the example of europe. this will lead to exploitation, but also to increased risks. we now know of the case in china, where a complete blood-quality disaster occurred when huge sums were paid to blood donors. in austria, 200 shillings to the donor is symbolic, but in eastern europe, it's a significant achievement. do we really want this for others and for ourselves? thirdly, there is a risk of being guilty of inconsistency. several eu countries have signed the convention on human rights and biomedicine, which explicitly prohibits the commercial exploitation of the human body and its parts, including blood. i'm not denying the need for plasma, and the shortage is a reality. but it's intellectually dishonest to open up this whole area to market forces because of the plasma shortage. amendment no 17 does, however, provide for adequate compensation for the costs of donating plasma, lost working time and travel expenses. at the same time, i would like to ask for the support of my colleagues for the oral amendment i am going to make to amendment no 43. it would allow for exceptions to be made in cases where the shortage of plasma is indeed an insurmountable problem.
- mr president, in this debate this morning, the ombudsman, mr jacob söderman, said that citizenship is perhaps less a fashion than a technocratic way of doing things, and he may be right. i would like to point out, however, that the committee on petitions may even be the committee of this house which is capable of bridging this gap between citizens and decision-makers. i always find these annual debates to be some of the highlights of the year, and it is a pleasure to be able to take part in them. the bösch report on the ombudsman's annual report reiterates parliament's call for the charter of fundamental rights to be made a binding part of the treaties. this is a very welcome step, because it may be just one way of strengthening and extending the appeal instrument, as mr bösch and the committee have said. it could one day become a genuine citizens' initiative, which is in the legislation of some member states. in the perry report on the code of good administration, parliament takes the view that a law binding on all institutions is needed, which requires that the administration really serves the citizens. it is clear that the commission should now make rapid and determined progress on this matter. the report by mrs almeida garrett on the ombudsman, mr duff, has already been mentioned, and i must say that i am convinced by mr duff's argument that the ombudsman should also be able to consult members of the institutions, if necessary, in cases of maladministration. i think that members of parliament have nothing to fear, because the ombudsman's powers are administrative and not political. i hope that the duff amendment can gain widespread support. give it up.
madam president, president of the commission and the council, the world today seems much bleaker than it did before tuesday’s shocking events. the horrific images of the brutal and cowardly acts of terrorism on the world trade centre in new york and the pentagon in washington will stay in our minds forever. no cause could ever justify such a terrifying act of cold-blooded barbarism. on behalf of the greens/european free alliance group, i want to express the deep sorrow we feel for the victims who died in this tragedy and wish to send my heartfelt condolences to the families and all those who have lost their loved ones. our thoughts are also with the rescue forces, the firefighters and policemen who risked and lost their lives to save others. what the world witnessed yesterday – and there are no other words to express it – was a crime against humanity. as soon as the terrorists are identified, they should be brought to an international court for crimes against humanity and judged accordingly. this is the time to speed up the establishment of a permanent international criminal court. in the aftermath of this tragedy, the united states of america should also recognise the need for such an institution. if, on the other hand, the united states responds with attacks on possible suspect countries, they will not only be killing more innocent people, just like those who died so tragically on tuesday, but they will also be encouraging further counter-attacks: two wrongs never make a right. the devastating consequences of a spiral of revenge are nowhere more visible today than in the middle east. we should do everything possible to ensure that this attitude is not repeated on a global scale. i would like to express our deep concern about the situation in the middle east and call for international efforts to bring the peace negotiations back on track to be intensified. in this regard, we welcome the clear commitment made along those lines by belgian foreign minister, mr louis michel, in today’s press and as representative of the presidency-in-office of the european union. we need to be tough on terrorism, but we also need to be tough on the causes of terrorism. we need a political response on a global scale to this unprecedented challenge in order to weed out the real roots of terrorism which stem from political, social and environmental conflicts: this concept underlies the report of mr watson, which this parliament adopted last week. if there is widespread fanaticism, which breeds and supports this sort of terrorism, we can assume that there is something wrong politically. the european union is well placed to engage in forms of conflict prevention and conflict resolution which address the causes and not merely treat the symptoms. that is why we believe a european union/united states summit should be held to deal with all aspects of the new terrorist threats, including the social and political causes. on tuesday, our sense of security was shown to be illusory. it became evident that high-tech measures, such as a missile defence system, would be powerless in the face of this new kind of low-tech terrorism. what has happened in new york and washington cannot be allowed to ever happen again. all defenders of democracy must protect our precious civilisation and uphold the civilised rule of law. (applause)
- mr president, the debate on the future of cohesion policy is very topical. i thank the commission for its willingness to have this debate with parliament as well, and i also thank it for these visits to the member states. they are very necessary. in my case, in addition to the question of how to make regional policy work effectively in both the current member states and the applicant countries, i am also concerned about the continuation of structural policy in the current member states during the next period of the structural funds. the structural funds are currently too heavily controlled. this is a good time to assess, among other things, how the delay in the preparation of programmes can be used to draw lessons for the next period. how can we achieve greater efficiency, better results and less bureaucracy? i would also like to know the commission's position on the implications of enlargement for the overall financial contribution of structural policy. is the commission prepared to increase the structural funds for the next period if the situation of economic and social cohesion in europe so requires? i would also like to tell the commission that we cannot accept a financing model for enlargement which pays for the poor areas of the present eu countries, which continue to suffer from persistent problems such as poor natural conditions, long distances or low population density. the eu must continue to act in solidarity in the future, so that new money is found for the new challenges of structural policy through a new financial instrument, with the central regions, among others, which will benefit most economically from enlargement, paying the price.
- mr president, the excellent report by mr valenciano martínez-orozco clearly states that female genital mutilation is a crime that europe must not remain silent about. i would urge all members of this house to give their unanimous support to the report when we vote tomorrow. female genital mutilation, to whatever degree, is an act of violence against women, which violates fundamental rights, the inviolability of the individual and physical and mental health. the rights of women, young girls or girls are trampled underfoot by appealing to the traditions of different cultures or even to presumed precepts of religion. however, the background is always the lower social status and position of women than men in these cultures. so there's an order for equality work, too. unfortunately, female genital mutilation has been found to occur and is occurring in immigrant communities across the eu, even though this practice is prohibited by the criminal law of the member states and is a clear violation of the principles of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. no religious or cultural practice may override the fundamental principles of human rights or the physical and psychological integrity of the human person on which european democracy is based. the demand that doctors should perform genital mutilation in clinical conditions must also be strongly opposed. this should not be confused with male circumcision, which is a practice adopted in some member states. i support the positive measures in the report aimed at putting an end to these crimes in the eu member states. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations, in particular the future of the union's external relations. i am also personally prepared to accept the principle of extraterritoriality in this context. i urge the authorities of the member states and, of course, as the representative of finland, especially the authorities of my own country, finland, to take all the necessary measures as soon as possible to put an end to these inhuman and medieval violations of human rights. (applause) i would like to thank the
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, the aim of this directive was to achieve the strictest possible emission ceilings for air emissions from acidification. acidification, ozone in the lower atmosphere and soil erosion are interrelated problems caused by emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds and ammonia. it makes sense to look at the problems together, because that is the most cost-effective way of reducing emissions. in its own proposal, the commission had calculated on this basis the ceilings to be reached by each member state by 2010. the community - the european union - has set itself the objective, both in its fifth environmental action programme and in its strategy for acidification, of ensuring that people are protected from all known air pollutants. in its proposal, the commission stated that it was not in a position at this stage to set so-called definitive targets for critical loads and levels, but that the final long-term objective had to be reached through intermediate targets, which the commission therefore set for 2010. with the exception of ammonia, parliament approved the commission's target level at second reading by adding a long-term objective. the parliament believes that the intermediate targets should be achieved by 2010 and the final target of protecting people across the eu from all known air pollutants by 2020. the council made it clear that it had no power to change the figures it had adopted in its common position. nor was it prepared to accept the long-term objective as justification for the fact that the requirement that critical levels and loads not be exceeded in any region was, in the view of the council and the commission, technically impossible to achieve. the council's common position on emission ceilings was relatively far from the commission's figures, but still better than the so-called gothenburg figures, which most member states swore by. the adoption of the council's common position would have meant that we had raised our hands in the air to improve air quality and protect the health of citizens. the negotiations, after considerable hand-wringing and active compromise by the commission, resulted in the main principles of the directive being twisted in the direction of parliament's views. the negotiations adopted the commission's and parliament's stricter emission limits as indicative figures and the council's common position as binding on the member states. indicative means that the commission is obliged in its reports in 2004 and 2008 to re-evaluate the directive in the light of future scientific and technical developments and the possibility of reaching stricter emission limits. these reviews shall also take into account the extent to which the long-term objectives can be achieved by 2020. the result of the conciliation was that the commission was given the means to tighten up the target level of the directive and the requirement to consider reducing emissions also in the long term as an objective to ensure that critical levels and loads are not exceeded and that people are effectively protected from all air pollutants. it was quite an achievement to get this long-term objective in the article of the directive, but it was perhaps the most important thing that was achieved in the conciliation. the most difficult of the sources of acidification emissions is to deal with the emissions from aircraft and ships. we got through that, too. the commission is required to take action in this respect. i would also like to thank ria oomen-ruijten for the good cooperation we had in that conciliation. it was indeed very significant that the directive on large combustion plants was passed so well, because it is a key instrument for implementing this emission ceiling directive. i would also like to thank the president of parliament's delegation, the members and the commission representatives, and sweden as the presidency, for the very good cooperation.
- mr president, my colleague ria oomen-ruijten has been a commendable rapporteur at all three stages of the lcp directive. we now have a revised directive which can be expected to have a significant impact on reducing emissions from large combustion plants, while taking account of the realities of everyday life. i am grateful that i was able to be involved in drafting the compromise amendments and that they were accepted first by the rapporteur and then by parliament. these amendments are reflected in this directive even after the conciliation and will, inter alia, allow for the production of combined heat and power, which is essential for sustainable development. in the first place, there was a risk that the directive would have made chp economically unviable. it would have clearly been a step backwards. the oomen-ruijten report, like the report by mr müller, is an example of how the codecision procedure can be used to achieve a successful outcome even in very difficult and demanding matters. these two directives are certainly such. national emission limits and emissions from large energy installations are areas where member states have traditionally controlled their own interests and sought to prevent the setting of targets that could jeopardise their own competitiveness and that of the eu as a whole. the commission has already had to take this into account when drawing up its proposal. parliament too, in its idealism, has had to take account of political realities. despite this, the result can be considered ambitious. it is of immediate importance for the air quality in europe. it also shows an important point for the future: the eu is also ready to work in practical policy to achieve the objectives set out in the kyoto agreement. the commission is expected to make a number of important proposals this autumn on the fight against climate change. the two reports now before us are promising. the eu institutions are capable of balanced work that can be expected to produce challenging outcomes. in the face of the realities of climate change, we can afford no less.
- mr president, the european coal and steel community has been borrowing money from the market for the last decade and has continued to lend funds for research in the coal and steel sectors. the community's balance sheet shows a surplus of eur 1.1 billion when it ceases to exist. the rules of the game are now being established for how the proceeds of the money are used for research in the coal and steel sectors. i think that the creation of a research fund is a positive thing, whereas the ending of funds for combating social injustices is a bad thing. the commission proposes that the funds be invested and the research projects be prepared by an army of about 30 civil servants, supported by three and a half million euros, which gives the impression of an excessive bureaucracy and which parliament must therefore return to when it deals with the discharge. the amendment in mr linkohr's report calls for the creation of a specific european research foundation, the extension of the activities of the research fund for coal and steel to other sectors and the acceptance of private sector funding. mr. linkohr, this is a very dubious performance. we already have a joint eu research centre and a framework programme for science and research. i understand mr linkohr's favourable attitude to research, but we must not build a new bureaucracy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's steel industry is not left behind. its resources are justified to be redistributed to the sectors from which they were collected, but the idea of a research foundation funded by eu taxpayers and businesses adds to the inefficient bureaucracy. it is better for parliament to insist on the co-decision procedure in the field of science and research and to leave the overall implementation of the programmes to the commission. we will not question mr. linkohr's good faith in science and research.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the union's position on this issue will not change. as regards the second question, the situation is as follows: an international fund has been set up for the decommissioning of unit i, managed by the european bank for reconstruction and development, and eur 220 million has been allocated to date. i had convened an international donor conference in vilnius last year with the lithuanian prime minister. the result was, as i said, these 220 million. i must add, however, and this somewhat clouds the picture, that of these 220 million euros, 165 million came from our own budget, so that the amount the international community was prepared to add is relatively modest. nevertheless, the money available is sufficient to start the decommissioning on schedule and to finance all the related tasks. i must point out that the decommissioning of such a nuclear power station is a project that will take many decades and that the financial obligations that will also result for us will extend over decades. the situation is somewhat more complicated in the case of unit ii, since the lithuanian parliament has not yet decided on a definite date for its closure. but i have informed the lithuanian government in the talks i have mentioned that the commission is of course ready to provide the necessary assistance in this case as well, and is also ready to organise international assistance. it is quite clear that a country like lithuania cannot accomplish this enormous task of decommissioning such a nuclear power plant on its own. it would also be unfair to ask lithuania to do so, because it was not lithuania that wanted this power station. on the contrary, the lithuanians actually resisted it at the time. it was the former soviet union that built this power station where it stands now, and certainly not to supply electricity to lithuania, but essentially - that is our assessment - probably for military purposes. so it is a piece of the legacy of the former soviet union that weighs on a poor country like lithuania. it's in our best interest to see that legacy disappear.
- mr president, does the commission intend to adopt a common safety standard for nuclear power stations, binding on the eu member states and the applicant countries, or alternatively to draw up lists of the power stations in the region, in accordance with the name and shame principle?
- mr president, racism is a matter of great cultural consensus: it is wrong. no one would want to be guilty of racism, it is one of those powerful and charged words that can not only fight injustice, but also, obviously, be easily beaten and branded. the shadow declaration that preceded the ngo forum's conference on racism, accusing israel of racism - without condemning anti-semitism - created a distorted starting point for the un conference. we have seen with our own eyes here in the european parliament how anti-semitism is manifested in the palestinian textbooks as open racism. the tone of the discussion was unreasonable for israel, given its past and the obvious desire of hostile states to deny israel's right to exist at all. i am certainly not denying the problems and injustices faced by the palestinians, they must be corrected. but blurring the facts one way or the other will not produce a solution. it is tragic that in condemning discrimination, you are at the same time committing it. unfortunately, this disproportion damaged the credibility of the ngos and the credibility of the racism convention. as a friend of civil society and ngos, i am particularly sorry that their credibility and the conditions for their action were weakened by their recklessness. i am very grateful to the most respected human rights organisations, such as amnesty international and human rights watch, for their immediate withdrawal from the text of the ngo convention. i would also like to thank the belgian presidency for the speech it made in the eu presidency, which rightly emphasized that the middle east conflict is a political one and should not be discussed at all in the conference on racism. what would have been worth talking about? what's left of the politics? amnesty said that many critical issues, such as the treatment of refugees, human trafficking, caste-based oppression or roma rights, were at risk of being ignored. and unfortunately, that's exactly what happened. for example, the unbaptized in india tried hard to bring their own plight to the fore in the racism forums of the ngos. they say that discrimination against the untouchables is a hidden apartheid.
- mr president, mr rübig's paper is a very good document, we support it. the commission document is also good, it is fun to read. so now we are basing innovation on skills in a knowledge-based economy. even when we were discussing eeurope, we were in a knowledge-based economy, so we are constantly being treated like miss candidates. next, of course, is the civilized society that we all aspire to, from engineers to music teachers. it is true that bureaucracy is a hindrance to this innovation work; we should have programmes which are a kind of bypass for innovation, that is the first need. secondly, creating an environment that is creative and rewarding is essential, and it's difficult. thirdly, the action programme should increase support for innovative companies or organisations in the sme sector, since, as has been said, 80% of taxes and 60% of jobs come from this sector. fourthly, the protection of the creative input of the workers must be adequate to avoid obstacles to it, and so must the rewarding of both. this creative leadership is very important and it's not very common. creative management also requires equality, trust and fairness within companies. it is also appropriate to set up innovation banks, where companies and other entities can buy and acquire innovations for practical application and where inventors and innovators can transfer them. in one way, this would also accelerate the uptake of innovation and create such a good and rational framework.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, knowledge and skills are the foundation of economic competitiveness and the well-being of society as a whole. the ambitious lisbon objectives risk becoming mere rhetoric and vanishing like a worldly glory if the european union's success in global competition is not based on high quality education and research. there are a number of aspects to a comprehensive innovation policy, which many of my colleagues have already stressed in their speeches. as european legislators, we should pay particular attention to simplifying legislation and administration. i agree with mr rübig and the other members that simplification is a necessity. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. in addition to some kind of labour reform, we also need a complete reform of governance, which has already been well under way with the white paper on governance. as you yourself said a few days ago, our dear competitors, the united states and japan, are lagging behind the eu in promoting and developing innovation, partly because the rewards for trying and taking risks are much higher than in europe. we must create conditions which encourage initiative and self-activity. entrepreneurship can be promoted among schoolchildren and students. our education systems are only creating the conditions for the introduction of, for example, young enterprises as a specific business model. i also believe that the development of human capital is important. it is a major driver of innovation. a genuine information society must be accessible to all citizens, and it is therefore important to raise the level of knowledge of the entire population. the protection of intellectual property rights in innovations must also be improved, as has already been mentioned in other speeches. in my previous work i have already stressed the importance of the introduction of a community patent covering the whole of the territory of the union. the community patent would provide protection for new patents throughout the union, while significantly reducing the administrative costs for undertakings. and last but not least, we need a revolution in thinking to break away from the orthodoxy of thinking and acting. we have to create the conditions that make it possible to produce a large number of new ideas, which then may develop into that one breakthrough innovation. new technology is not the key to a good future, we need unconventional thinking in all sectors - both in business and in public administration.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i regret that i have neither read the book no logo nor the economist special issue pro logo. it is clear, however, that we are engaged in a very interesting debate on the question of brands and their role in the division of the world market. we who want a globalisation that benefits all parties are indeed looking forward to the international consumption of trademark rights, as the original mayer report suggested. the same applies if you are in favour of an effective competition policy, as the rapporteur mentioned. european consumption today allows for the division of markets and benefits producers but not consumers. different studies can give different results. the commission is relatively negative in its study on international consumption. on the other hand, we also have the experience to which the previous speaker refers, namely that there are several countries where goods became more expensive after the introduction of community consumption, such as germany, sweden and the united kingdom. i also regret that this matter could not be taken forward under the swedish presidency, which i know gave it high priority. i therefore hope that we will now actually be able to produce a report on this subject. i also hope that the commissioner will be able to comment on the possibilities for raising the issue in the context of the wto, where a new round will begin quite soon. i also think it is important not to confuse this issue with the question of pirate manufacturing, which is a completely different matter. there are new ways of monitoring the authenticity of goods through a real, detailed identification, which allows for a completely new way of monitoring. i therefore hope that the commission can support the efforts which are the main thrust of this parliament today and the main thrust of the eldr group.
- mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the finnish-language programme has been removed from parliament's television network. we've been wondering what's causing it, but we haven't been able to find any explanation. finland will therefore not be able to produce programmes, whereas some member states have up to three or four channels. i ask the president to ask the parties concerned to correct this, because it is strange, especially in these times of crisis, that a programme signal from one member state is removed from the television networks without explanation.
- mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, the current world political situation, the war on terrorism, has many features which create long-term uncertainty for the economies of the eu countries. confidence-building economic policy policies may therefore have an unprecedented impact on consumer and investor behaviour and, therefore, on the length of the downturn. some things are positive also in terms of the containment of inflation, the stability of the value of money: the price of crude oil is falling rather than rising and the fed and the ecb are acting quickly and in unison after 9/11. now, after yesterday's fed rate cut, the eyes are on the ecb. waiting is bad. the direction of the solution should be in the hands of an independent ecb, but the future of interest rate policy in europe must also be quickly clear. a strong commitment by each country to the stability and growth pact creates the very confidence that the pact itself seeks and that the economy now needs. the budgetary discipline must not be imposed on the eu countries under any pretext, not even by any expenditure to increase internal and external security. the corresponding savings must be found and we must not be left to the imagination of the increase in income. the changeover to the euro will bring slight additional costs to all parts of the production chain. you can't deny them. however, they are one-off and only slightly raise the price level. they should not be intimidated and thus increase inflationary pressures. the best long-term policy for stability and growth is now to stick firmly to the lisbon decisions and make the european union the most competitive area in the world, remove internal barriers to competition and encourage european innovation, development and research. the opening of a new round of wto negotiations is now essential for a controlled strengthening of international cooperation in the economy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? while i would like to thank the rapporteur for the report on behalf of the eldr group, i would like to draw attention to the future, as did the previous speaker. the commission's report says that the next report on the directive will also address issues of importance to consumers, such as interoperability, conditional access and how to transition to digital broadcasting technology, but by the time the next report is drawn up, 'the train may have already run'. i would remind you that when parliament was considering the 'telecom package' it agreed by a large majority that we should require an open common standard for television transmitters and receivers, the only one so far approved in europe, the so-called mhp standard. this standard would ensure that all consumers are aware of the situation and dare to buy the equipment needed, and that vertically divided markets do not arise. parliament supported this by a large majority. but what happened next? the commission does not support this decision and the council has completely ignored this issue, which i believe is extremely important if we are to achieve the so-called digital update, to speed up digital technology also in all television markets. i therefore hope that the commission as a whole can begin to support the demands made by parliament, which we, the eldr group, wanted to make a little clearer. the rapporteur has already pointed out this requirement, but i would like to repeat it to make it clear to all the commission services. some have said that 'television without frontiers' is a suggestive title for the directive. there is also a particular problem in this context. we see that in many cases the directive has not worked as intended, either for resellers or for individual consumers who want to watch television from another country. the commission has found that the way in which copyright is managed prevents this. i hope that this question will be dealt with in greater detail in the future.
- mr president, i would like to ask the honourable member for the council what the timetable is for deciding on the establishment of the agencies envisaged, such as the maritime safety agency and in particular the food safety agency, and is the decision to be taken at once or for each agency separately?
- mr president, mr minister, when sweden was president, we had a practice that if the minister did not answer a question put to him on this occasion, there was also the possibility of a written reply. i remember very often the swedish minister for europe answering in writing the questions on which he did not want to make a statement as president of the council. i therefore ask the honourable belgian representative to follow the swedish line on this issue and to reply to me in writing as a belgian minister on what the answer to this question is and what the belgian position is on what is the most federalist country in europe, after all it has been claimed without any foundation that it is finland. this was stated by the belgian prime minister at a press conference during the belgian presidency.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking my friend karla peijss for her excellent report, which aptly illustrates the vital role of structural rehabilitation measures in the well-being of our societies. you don't see many reports this good. i'm going to focus on two things: the public finances of a euro area country are no longer a private matter of the state. the general government balance in a single member state, especially a large one, can have a knock-on effect on the stability of the euro area as a whole. the recent attempts to water down the state's economic recovery measures are therefore worrying. many governments have reduced their financing efforts in recent years and have relied mainly on periodic revenues, such as revenues from auctions of mobile communications systems. however, the stabilisation process is still very much in progress. the objective remains a government budget close to balance or in surplus. the member states must strictly respect the commitments in the stability and convergence programmes. balancing public finances requires long-term vision and determination. it exposes us to populist criticism of compartmentalized economic thinking and one-sided state fiscal balancing. but we still need to focus on this. politicians may have to take a few small bumps, but our economies can't take a left hook. secondly, the increase in public spending over the last few decades has led governments in several member states to raise taxation and social security contributions, which have already been at unsustainably high levels in europe. at the same time, the potential for economic growth has been steadily eroded. the last of the mohicans of orthodox communism, mr bordeskin, could already in the third millennium stop talking about class war and admit that the contribution of every european to the european economy is significant. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. only in this way can we achieve the ambitious lisbon objectives.
- mr president, mr khanbhai has produced a balanced report in which the proposals put forward can be welcomed. the report makes a concrete reference to the triangle of poverty, health and education, of which no part can be ignored without the other two being neglected. poverty has sometimes been compared to war, which takes prisoners and kills. the only difference is that death by poverty is slow and the victim is blamed. i would also like to remind our member states of our 0.7% target, so that our demands on the pharmaceutical industry for selflessness are credible. i am particularly in favour of the establishment of an international fund for infectious diseases and the introduction of compulsory licensing to improve access to medicines. both require a high level of initiative from the eu and require the connivance of key global actors and institutions to be successfully implemented. however, in all this action it must be borne in mind that without effective primary health care no other development is possible. good basic health also prevents more dangerous infections, and basic health makes it easier to detect and stop infections early. and we must not forget the importance of attitudes: if even basic health care fails, there is a growing indifference, where one cannot reasonably expect a person to take seriously the risk of infection that may become a potentially fatal disease in years to come. however frightening the prospects for infectious diseases and the consequent spontaneous need for special measures, they should never be taken at the expense of basic health care. it is therefore fair to say that eu support for primary health care has been completely inadequate for a long time. the doubling of eu funding for primary healthcare can therefore be seen as essential to all other objectives. it is worth bearing in mind the commitment of the copenhagen social summit to achieve universal and equal access to basic health care.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the liberal group is against the patenting of human genes as such, as we also said when parliament adopted the biotechnology directive in 1998. however, we believe that the directive does not allow patenting of genes as such, unless they contain an invention, and we supported the directive when it was adopted. we believe that the fact that a resolution on certain patents is now being discussed in a debate on topical and urgent subjects constitutes an abuse. that is why we have not signed the joint resolution. while we have a temporary committee on human genetics, where the question of patents is one of the most important issues, patents are being brought up here for a general position, and i would like to reiterate that this is completely wrong. we really think it's an abuse. there has been no formal opportunity to object, but we even think that the rules of parliament should be changed. so it is highly inappropriate for anyone to discuss the matter hastily. we also believe that the draft resolution is not entirely correct. the patent applications that exist - i have a summary of them here - explicitly state that they concern methods and not genes as such. you are trying to give the impression that the european patent office is now about to grant patents on human genes, and that is not the case. however, on one point we can agree with the petitioners, namely that certain parts are granted for 'if' patents. this means that we should review, for example, the question of compulsory licences, in the light of research and public health. unfortunately, this cannot be done at community level, but it is done in the member states. i hope we can discuss the issue of the licenses in peace and quiet in the human genetics committee. we will not be able to support the resolution.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the european union has a cheap way of helping other countries: it guarantees the european investment bank loans it grants to other countries. in practice, such aids have paid the eu nothing in recent years. the beneficiaries of the loans have benefited from the guarantees by being granted loans at a softer interest rate than the market rate. on the eu side, this low-cost and effective form of aid is regulated and there is a ceiling on guaranteed loans. it is divided into regional quotas. the commission proposal under discussion proposes to increase the quota for the ceecs, from which the investment bank can grant loans of eur 8 930 million with an eu guarantee. in order to support the reconstruction of yugoslavia, it is desirable that it should be included among the beneficiaries of the loan guarantees. to this end, it is proposed to increase the loan quota for the ceecs by eur 350 million. this amount is not earmarked for the exclusive use of yugoslavia, but it may receive credits from this quota after the increase, if it can show the european investment bank suitable projects for this purpose. the loans to yugoslavia are proposed to be granted with a 65% eu guarantee. it is a publicly available guarantee facility and no guarantee liability has been incurred by the eu in recent years for the credits granted under this facility. the eu budgetary provisions for the increase in the quota for yugoslavia require a transfer to the guarantee fund, which cannot be made for the entire increase in the quota for the current year. so these transfers will continue over the next two years as yugoslavia finds suitable building projects. as the permanent rapporteur on these matters, i would like to express my concern that there will be no margin at all in the guarantee fund for new and unexpected aid measures next year. the next year will be very problematic in this respect and the commission must pay due attention to the problem of over-utilisation of the guarantee fund. the situation is further aggravated by the proposal for a european investment bank loan to russia for environmental protection investments in the baltic sea basin, which the commission has sent to parliament. in a totally incomprehensible way, the council has demanded that these loans be guaranteed at 100% instead of the normal 65%. the council decision shows that there are member states which want to make environmental cooperation with russia more difficult. the way in which some member states are acting in this context shows a lack of awareness of the functioning of the system. russia will get its credit, but some other country will not, because the 100% guarantee is unnecessarily eating into the margin of the guarantee fund from others. the increase in the quota for the cis countries for the reconstruction needs of yugoslavia is justified and there is no need to amend the commission proposal.
- mr. president, i would like to make a statement regarding our colleague patricia mckenna. he was involved in a peaceful demonstration at the faslane nuclear power station in scotland today and was arrested at 8 a.m. with 12 irish students. he asks you to take note that a member of the european parliament cannot be imprisoned while he is on his way to or from meetings of the european parliament. the commission is also proposing to introduce a debate on the illegality of nuclear weapons. the international court of justice has just recently ruled that the possession of weapons of mass destruction is contrary to international law. madam president, i know that some people here think that you cannot go through scotland to strasbourg, but i would just like to say in patricia mckenna's native tongue that 'what goes up, must come down'.
the rapporteur. - mr president, we are now discussing a directive on public participation in environmental decision-making. it is the second pillar of the legislative work to ratify the 1998 aarhus convention within the community. i would like to thank you for the strong and unanimous support for my draft report on many of the important points i have raised. however, the report has also aroused political passions. it must be able to strike a balance between ensuring wide participation by citizens and avoiding delaying harassment. the task is not easy, especially since the commission's proposal is very complex in its structure. the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection last week led to an embarrassingly illogical result which must now be corrected in plenary to correct the embarrassing situation for the reputation of parliament. the version of the report to be adopted by the committee currently contains contradictory elements. i feel that the starting point i have set out and the practical consequences of that have not been sufficiently dealt with and understood. i argued that access to information and public consultation concerns all the public, but limited the post-decision legal protection to a more limited public whose rights are infringed by the decision. it is only here that i have not had the support i had hoped for from the larger groups in this parliament. i wanted to open the consultation phase to the general public because it is logically strange that the authority has to pre-select the public concerned. how could it know who and how the matter affects them before it has heard the audience on the matter? and if it does, there's no point in listening to the audience. such a restriction is strange in terms of citizen participation and also takes up unnecessary time and energy from the authorities themselves. since my colleagues have feared that my approach would mean that anyone could sue the authorities, i would like to stress that the opposite is true. the commission's version does so when it imposes the obligations required of the authority. in my proposal, the right of appeal is limited to those whose rights are violated by the decision, so that the appeal is not used deliberately to harass. the right to appeal is not automatically conferred on the person concerned by the opinion on the possibility. in the commission's proposal, the public was limited at all stages to the public concerned. i still regard the commission's proposal as a mistake in this respect, the practical consequences of which make the work of the authorities unnecessarily difficult. the authorities will have a very difficult time finding out who is involved, including all the ngos which, according to the commission's proposal, are always involved. failure or neglect to do so will always be grounds for legal action. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. my proposal was remarkable in that it would have been of genuine benefit to citizens who wished to participate, to the authorities concerned and to the parties involved. perhaps the matter will be corrected when the member states have to think more carefully about the practical application of the matter. i think that what i have said is important for all parties involved in the directive. fortunately, many other aspects of the aarhus agreement have been welcomed. firstly, i wanted to streamline the practice by harmonising the provisions on the process for the different directives. this makes it easier for citizens to know how to proceed and for public authorities to carry out their duty to advise citizens. the commission's proposal has a slightly different procedure, and it is difficult to know what action to take in each case. i have also included in the report some of the objectives of the aarhus treaty which the commission had omitted or forgotten in its proposal. this report is thus more in line with the spirit and objectives of the treaty. this is particularly the case with regard to article 6 (5) and article 8 of the aarhus convention, which expresses principles of importance for the convention. i would also like to thank the opinions of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs and the committee on petitions, which encouraged and supported my work in the committee on the environment. the cooperation with the commission and especially with the council has also been constructive and promises to be good in view of the second reading of the report.
commission. – mr president, may i begin by saying that this proposal deals with the second pillar of this convention involving public participation in environmental decision-taking. in addition to this proposal on access to environmental information, there are other pieces of community legislation which already incorporate the principle of the aarhus convention. the commission will ensure that the aarhus elements are built into all future proposals. public participation has to become a fully integrated part of environmental decision-taking. to reach that objective, our proposals have to be easy to put into practice, so that they may be smoothly implemented in the different administrative systems of the member states. the question whether participation in decision-taking should aim at the public at large or the "public concerned" is a key point, and it has been addressed by a number of members who have just spoken. in accordance with the aarhus convention, the commission proposes to ensure that the public at large is fully informed about planned developments which might affect them, whilst giving the right to participate in the decision-taking process to those having an interest in or likely to be affected by the developments, that is, the "public concerned." some of the proposed amendments, and indeed what has been said by some members just now, seems to imply that by using the definition, "the public concerned", both the convention and the commission are deliberately restricting the rights of citizens, but may i be permitted to point out that is certainly not the case. it is not correct. this proposal is aimed at extending the rights of citizens. there is no question of restricting those rights. by defining the "public concerned", we are focusing the attention of the competent authorities on the need to take account of those citizens most directly affected. the definition will confirm both the right to express a view and the right to be heard. the definition of "public concerned" is sufficiently detailed to ensure that there is no doubt who should be involved. therefore members of the public could argue that they had been unjustifiably excluded. that would be difficult with a more general definition of the public. the inclusion of ngos within the definition of the "public concerned" will ensure that a more general public view may be taken into account. on a more practical level, the definition of "public concerned" has been used without major problems in existing legislation – for example the environmental impact assessment directive – for a number years. there have been no problems raised as a result of people having been excluded by the use of the definition – at least no major problems. in short, this approach will give those affected by new developments the right to influence decisions which will not just affect their environment but which may also affect their economic and social conditions. for those reasons, the commission, regrettably, cannot support the amendments seeking to replace the concept of the "public concerned". amendment no 26 seeks to extend considerably the scope of article 1, so as to cover plans and programmes not only in the environmental field but also in other sectors. the commission's view is that this would make the scope of the proposal less well-defined and also that the measures proposed would lead to legal confusion. there would in effect be a duplication of measures in different pieces of legislation each seeking to do the same thing, but in an inconsistent manner. in particular, for plans and programmes in other sectors that may have significant environmental effects, directive 2001/42 on strategic environmental assessment already incorporates measures of particular relevance. the directive provides for environmental assessment of relevant plans and programmes in many integration sectors and envisages public participation fully in line with the aarhus requirements. amendments nos 6 and 12 aim to give effect to a best endeavour clause under the aarhus convention and are formulated in a non-binding way. amendment no 9 introduces public participation concerning policies in its heading, but the text does not contain operational provisions in this respect. in formulating the proposal, the commission's objective has been to incorporate the binding provisions of the aarhus convention. the commission's view is that there would be no added value in taking up its soft-law provisions. not only the community but all member states have signed the aarhus convention and so already have to take into account the soft-law provisions. the commission, regrettably, cannot accept amendments nos 7 and 11 which provide for access to justice concerning public participation in plans and programmes. the aarhus convention does not explicitly require this, neither does the directive on strategic environmental assessment of plans and programmes provide for access to justice. the commission is however considering possible further legislative proposals in relation to the third aarhus pillar on access to justice. in conclusion, may i now confirm the commission's position on the amendments. the commission can accept amendments nos 15, 18, 25, 28 and 29. in addition, amendments nos 9, 13, 14, 23 and 27 can be accepted in part and amendments nos 4, 5, 10 and 17 in principle. the commission cannot accept amendments nos 1, 16, 20, 21 and 22. by way of conclusion, i should like to emphasise that it is in our common interest, which is the interest of the european citizen after all, to have this proposal enter into force swiftly. only once the frameworks are established can public participation in decision-making become a fully integrated administrative practice.
the english interpretation was not able to follow my speech and thus all the other languages based on that interpretation were incomplete. i regret this. it has happened many times so i urge you to see that the quality of interpretation is improved as soon as possible.
- mr president, i read rule 114 of the rules of procedure, which states that the procedure without debate is to apply when the committee responsible has not tabled any amendments or when all the amendments tabled have been adopted with no more than three members voting against them. now this report has come to us without debate; however, the committee voted for the swedish candidate, mr tobisson, and more than three members voted against him because he had no experience as an auditor. i would therefore like you to interpret whether it is right that this matter can be voted on without a debate - without any possibility of making these points publicly known - when more than three members have once voted against one nominated candidate. i call for this matter to be referred to the plenary.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community was signed in 1952 for a period of 50 years. the contract expires next summer and there's no intention of renewing it. the final ecsc budget, covering its expenditure until 23 july next year, is therefore now before us. the net assets of the ecsc, estimated at eur 1.1 billion, will then be transferred to the eu general budget for safe and profitable investment. the proceeds of the funds are intended to be used to finance research activities in both the coal and steel sectors. it is estimated that the proceeds will be used for these purposes to the tune of some eur 45 million per year. the ecsc has not been charged any new fees for many years. its expenditure is financed mainly from the provision for financing the operating budget. the commission proposes that the largest item of expenditure in the last six months of the ecsc's activities next year be social aid. the majority of this is to be used for specific adjustment aid in countries where coal and steel production has been reduced. the social problems in the sector in many countries have led the committee on budgets to propose an increase of eur 16 million in the adjustment aid for the specific problems of the steel industry in the uk, ireland and belgium compared with the commission's original proposal. the ecsc's closure will mean the end of social assistance for coal and steel workers. the commission has not promised to allocate specific support from the general eu budget to social purposes in these sectors. when the ecsc ceases to exist, the social dimension it represents will not continue in any other form. the ecsc has financed a number of important research projects. although the revenue of the ecsc fund will be directed exclusively to research activities after its closure, the funding will be reduced. for example, as early as next year, 72 million euros will be allocated to research. this is a considerable sum compared with the eur 45 million which is spent on research as a result of the ecsc's net assets. the end of the ecsc treaty is therefore a negative event, both from the social and from the research point of view. the commission, in the context of the management of the ecsc's remaining assets and the allocation of research funds, charges a considerable remuneration on the proceeds of ecsc resources: eur 3.5 million per year. it will employ more than 30 officials to manage the remaining ecsc activities. the activities are so limited that there seems to be one group which will not suffer the loss of the ecsc as the workers and researchers in the coal and steel industries have suffered. the life of the officials who have managed the banking business and the assets of the ecsc is surprisingly little affected by the termination of the contract. it shows the inefficiency of the reorganisation of the commission's activities. there is a problem which i would like to draw attention to, although it is not really the subject of this report. the legal basis for the establishment of the research fund for the coal and steel sectors was established by the treaty of nice. if the nice agreement is not in force next july, then the nest management after that will have no legal basis. the commission must urgently take a position on this problem. finally, it is worth recalling all the positive achievements of the ecsc. the european coal and steel community was one of the institutions which contributed to the consolidation of peace and international cooperation in post-world war ii europe. during the period of the european coal and steel community, its member states have not waged war against each other.
the committee on culture, youth, education, media and sport has adopted an opinion. - mr president, the budget of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport contains three important headings: firstly, a separate appropriation of eur 12.6 million is proposed for the implementation of the elearning initiative. this is justified by the fact that learning about information technology is at the heart of the union's strategy. the substantial increase in the budget for computer science education is also justified because funding it solely through the socrates, youth and culture 2000 programmes could jeopardise the achievement of the fundamental objectives of the programmes. you have to remember that information technology is a tool, not an asset. the second opening concerns sport, which does not yet have a legal basis in the union. however, the treaty of amsterdam mentions sport and the nice summit conclusions emphasise its social importance. the committee on budgets has approved a proposal for an appropriation of eur 5 million to be used, inter alia, to prevent young people from being excluded from the work of sports clubs. the third new item in the cultural budget is the allocation of eur 1 million for the establishment of a monitoring centre for cultural cooperation. i think that the coordination of cultural cooperation could be carried out in conjunction with the council of europe, which has a lot of experience in this field. the a-30 was again a problem. i am very disappointed with the work of the committee on budgets on item a-3042 on the financing of european cultural organisations. we had worked a lot on this point in the committee on culture. we took account of the commission's report on the financing of ngos and the recommendations of the working party on the committee on budgets. above all, we will try to assess how the money could be used in the best possible way for european culture. i cannot accept the fact that the committee on budgets is interfering with a proposal which requires the expertise of the special committee, as has happened. i therefore warmly support the proposal in the report by the rapporteur-general, mr costa neves, to provide a legal basis and fair play for chapter a-30. parliament cannot act like a 'catch-all' match where the most ruthless wins.
- mr president, first of all i would like to express my sincere thanks and congratulations to the rapporteurs, mr costa neves, mrs buitenweg and mr seppäs for a job well done. i would also like to thank mr terence wynn, chairman of the committee on budgets, who has also led the work of this year very well. the work of the rapporteur-general is difficult and demanding, but costa neves has done well and my group supports his approach to the commission's budget. the general budget line includes the withdrawal of the cuts in agricultural expenditure, the management of the balance of payments and the reform of the commission. the strengthening of the policy of the northern dimension in the budgetary justification can also be regarded as positive. the budget is being prepared on the basis of last year's financial statements, which showed a surplus of eur 11 billion. the expenditure was eur 8.5 billion below estimates and the structural funds were not used for eur 6.5 billion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. otherwise, budgetary policy will be completely undermined. one of the budgetary priorities is to reduce payment arrears. they currently amount to over eur 60 billion. my group supports this objective. my group also supports the reform of the commission, which is one of the main priorities of this parliament. it increases efficiency and personal responsibility. the commission is proposing to set aside part of the appropriations in order to present a reform of the staff regulations and to clarify its views on the early retirement scheme. section 4 is difficult. the commission and the council are proposing eur 125 million for the moroccan fisheries agreement, even though it will not be concluded. this is a clear hidden reserve, which is even contrary to the financial regulation. we need to take it down. the commission has also proposed that the flexibility instrument be used to modernise the spanish and portuguese fishing fleets. this is partially acceptable. but our group cannot accept a cut in the cards programme of 84 million euros. we are happy to be part of the joint agreements as liberals to get the budget through parliament, but we cannot enter into this idea. the cards programme has been a top priority for this parliament and we therefore want corresponding cuts in other programmes in the budget, for which the payment appropriations have been inadequate in any case. the largest of the small programmes is the a-30 appropriation, earmarked grants to ngos. these appropriations are very disproportionately large in relation to the time that parliament spends on them. therefore, the whole system should be clarified. moreover, the selection of these organisations is very rarely based on objective criteria. in particular, we support mrs buitenweg's report for her discipline in the budget of this parliament. it falls below the ceiling we set ourselves, 20 percent of all administrative expenditure, even though the cost of enlargement is already included. the question of enlargement to the east itself must be dealt with in such a way that parliament's work is not hindered and we can continue to meet in a single chamber.
- mr president, the budgetary line for next year's budget has been very strict. with the eu's gross domestic product growing faster than the eu's budgetary payments, the eu's budgetary contribution to total gdp has fallen to 1.03%. it shows that the budgetary constraint for next year does not include specific priorities. the ceiling for the eu budget is 1.27% of the member states' gdp. the budget therefore has room for priorities, but the council and the commission do not seem to have the political will or the capacity to prepare priorities. such things could be employment or healthy food. in the eu, the political elite no longer even discusses the fight against unemployment, let alone combat it with appropriate policies. our group has traditionally emphasized the fight against unemployment. often the unemployed are not the cause of their unemployment but are at the mercy of the tides of the times and the conditions of the day. we must have a policy against unemployment. the political elite and eu officials are doing their own thing. there is an early retirement scheme that generously rewards those who, even after retraining, are no longer fit to be working tires in the eu's wheel. the fact that there are hundreds of officials who are not needed for their duties shows that eu personnel policy is in retreat. the commission's ability to implement parliament's political decisions is poor. there is always too much difference between the budget decided and the budget implemented by the commission. there are no payment deadlines for matters of importance to the commission, but there are often for matters of importance to parliament. the eu budget is a political document, because it channels money to the eu elites, now also to the european parties, and to eu propaganda. that is not how you build a people's europe. if there has been an illegal war, as in the case of the bombing of yugoslavia, aid for the reconstruction of the country should not be subject to cuts. let's hope the cards vote doesn't surprise the big groups.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the european union has a cheap way of helping other countries: it guarantees the european investment bank loans it grants to other countries. the beneficiaries of the eu guarantees benefit from interest rates below market rates. this is also the case with the loan guarantee for environmental investment loans granted by the european investment bank to russia. the maximum amount of the credit shall be eur 100 million. the bank sets the criteria according to which the loans are granted. if russia does not submit projects that meet the bank's criteria, the bank is not obliged to grant loans. this is a new positive initiative which gives new meaning to the concept of the northern dimension of the eu, which has become a myth. the loans are intended to improve the environmental situation in the whole baltic sea region and thus also in the eu member states. parliament has not called into question the credits to russia. the bill has the broadest political support. however, the way in which the council and the commission have taken this matter forward has caused problems. in the summer, the commission proposed to parliament that the loan guarantees be granted in the same way as other european investment bank loans guaranteed by the eu, with a 65% guarantee. it is still the only proposal the commission has submitted to parliament. however, the council later decided to use the exceptional procedure and demanded that the russian loans be fully guaranteed at 100% instead of 65%. russia was treated differently from other eu borrowers. the commission accepted the council's proposal but has not submitted a new proposal to parliament. we therefore have the commission's original proposal for a 65% loan guarantee before us in parliament. parliament called for a new consultation on the amended proposal. after many consultations with the council and commission representatives, we have received a letter from the council which can be interpreted in good faith as a request for a second hearing of parliament. the commission has also given written notice of acceptance of the 100% guarantee. in the case of the derogation from the general rule, the committee on budgets would have wanted the commission to present a completely new proposal. the commission stated that it was unable to provide it in time. in this case, 'in due course' means that it is in the best interests of all parties to decide on the matter in the middle of this year. the eu loan guarantees are capped by a special guarantee fund. it shall be transferred from the guarantee reserve as and when the guarantee commitments are given. this year, the ceiling is eur 208 million. the guarantees on russian loans will be included in this year's quota, although the 100% guarantee will take more of it than the 65% guarantee. the decision is to be taken this year, because there are so many commitments for next year that there will be no room at all in the guarantee fund for new guarantees - in this case, no room for loans for russian environmental investments either. it would require unanimity in all the eu institutions to raise the guarantee ceiling, and achieving this is not always simple. so if we want to secure european investment bank loans for environmental projects in the russian baltic sea basin, we will have to make a decision this year. the committee on budgets has been prepared to do so, although the council and the commission have not acted entirely in accordance with the rules. the committee therefore takes the view that this is not a precedent and that similar cases will not be dealt with in this way in the future. parliament also calls for the priorities it has set to be taken into account. as the permanent rapporteur on loans and guarantees in the committee on budgets, i would like to stress once again that there is no margin in the guarantee funds for new and unexpected aid measures next year. the commission must take action in this respect.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i can agree with everything per-arne arvidsson said about the importance and environmental significance of this decision. we also know that the decision we are now discussing is likely to concern the most important individual position taken by the european council in stockholm. i would point out once again that the northern coast of the gulf of finland is the one that receives all the waste coming from st petersburg, which leads to a particularly large algal bloom. i therefore want to declare that i have a great interest in this matter and that the waste water from 3.5 million people has a tremendous impact on my finnish environment and my finnish archipelago. we have set a ceiling of 100 million euros. these funds will be used for selected projects with a clear environmental objective and which are of significant interest also to the eu. i think this is one of the critical points, if we take into account what emerged in the discussion yesterday at the northern dimension meeting in finland. a russian minister said that russia was critical of the selection criteria and wanted international funding organisations to be more involved in the project. at the same time, we know that the budget of the north-west refinery has greatly exceeded the estimates of the nordic investment bank and finland. i think we have to give a 100% guarantee. i don't think 100 million euros is going to solve the problem. we know that the russian federation does not provide guarantees and that the city of st. petersburg has completely exhausted its guarantees. i therefore appeal to my colleagues for solidarity on this matter. give a hundred percent guarantee on this project! it is in our interest, and eventually we will open the doors to a better environmental awareness in st petersburg, something we must be constantly aware of. this is much more complicated than commissioner wallström thinks.
the rapporteur. - mr president, as we all remember, the chernobyl nuclear disaster occurred on 26 april 1986 and remains the most serious nuclear accident in history. the radioactive contamination affected people and nature in vast areas of ukraine, belarus and russia, and also affected the present eu countries. under such conditions, nuclear reactor shelters were hastily built around the destroyed unit to stop the spread of contamination. inside the decaying reactor shield there are still more than 200 tons of uranium and nearly a ton of radionuclides, 80 percent of which are plutonium. the chernobyl reactor safety fund was established in december 1997 to finance the implementation of the reactor safety plan to protect the population and the environment from new radioactive contamination. the initial cost estimate for the project for the period 1998-2005 was approximately usd 758 million. the first donor conference was held in new york in november 1997. twenty-five countries provided guarantees for a total of about us$400 million, including us$50 million from ukraine in kind. this amount was sufficient for the first phase of the implementation plan for the reactor shield. the european union initially financed the reactor shielding activities with some us$2 billion, as committed at the 1997 denver summit. this amount was financed from the general budget for 1998-99. the second donor conference to organise the final funding was held in berlin in july 2000. at that time, 22 countries agreed to commit some us$ 320 million, and at this conference the european union committed eur 100 million for the period 2000-04. the report now before us concerns the proposal for a council decision on a second financial contribution by the european community to the european bank for reconstruction and development for the chernobyl reactor safety fund. it is therefore parliament's opinion for the adoption of this regulation. the financial situation is now as follows: the chernobyl reactor safety fund has been guaranteed a total of usd 716 million, including usd 50 million in natural contributions from ukraine. so there is still some money missing from this because the cost estimate is a little higher, more than 750 million dollars. for this reason, as this matter is taken forward, it is necessary and expected that ukraine will also be able to arrange for the payment of this second instalment to be made. the problem here is that in 1998 the budgetary authority set a ceiling of 13% for the use of tacis funds for nuclear safety projects. if that were the case, this decision could not be taken now, as the commission and the council have said. however, i support the commission's proposal to allocate eur 100 million to the chernobyl response fund, as the implementation of this project is of paramount importance for the population of the european union and its security. i also support the commission's proposal to create a separate budget line for this purpose, so that it is possible to monitor how the funds are used. it is clear that the use of these funds is difficult when operating in very difficult circumstances, with a huge number of international players and also with a somewhat unresolved situation in the governance of the cis countries. on the whole, however, i support this council proposal with certain amendments.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i am presenting a legislative report at second reading which is very wide-ranging. it aims to modernise the european union's key equality directive on employment, originally adopted in 1976. the commission has done a great deal to bring all the questions raised by modernity into this report. i would like to thank my colleagues and the other political groups for the intensive and fruitful cooperation we have had also in this second reading. firstly, the commission has for the first time put forward binding measures that member states should put in place to prevent sexual harassment at the workplace. so far there have been only recommendations and very different practices in the different member states. the european parliament now reiterates its demand, which has not been accepted by the council, that member states should oblige employers to prevent sexual harassment at the workplace. the committee has found that one system which can be very useful in preventing and remedying the damage caused by sexual harassment is that every workplace must have a confidential person to whom one can turn in these matters. the second important point is that the directive seeks to strengthen the rights of mothers, adoption and parents in general and to protect mothers in particular, but also fathers, from discrimination which employers may apply to young parents. every day we hear examples of employers continuing to ask young women whether they intend to have children in the coming years, and in this way a very large proportion of those who are seeking to enter the labour market may be subject to serious discrimination. this has been illegal up to now, but it is still a discrimination that must be fought. the european parliament proposes that this directive does so. the issue is, among other things, that a person must have the right to return to the same job or at least to a similar job and under the same conditions of employment, for example after maternity leave. as rapporteur, i have tabled an amendment which also wants to emphasise that the unfavourable treatment of fathers must be declared to be prohibited discrimination in this directive. it is essential that parliament tomorrow approves the amendment tabled by the rapporteur and a number of groups, which also protects fathers and mothers who take, for example, parental leave, so that there is no discrimination, because we all understand how important reconciliation between work and family life is for young families and also for our children. it is good to see that recently the commission has also realised that day care is an important issue and that this way the employment rate of women can be raised to the level of men in order to attract more workers. of course, this will not happen unless there is good day care. this directive does not provide for any new rights, but seeks to protect the persons exercising those rights - both fathers and mothers - from discrimination in the field of employment. parliament proposed the introduction of workplace equality plans. this is a very strategic proposal, because equality must be actively and systematically promoted at the grassroots level, i.e. where people work. it has been a pleasure to see that the employers' organizations have actually accepted this idea. i hope we get a lot of support for this show. i would like to thank the commission for its very constructive approach. i believe that together we will soon be able to adopt this directive. if the council does not accept all the parliament's proposals, the conciliation procedure can be launched very quickly.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs miguélez ramos, for her excellent preparation. he has raised important issues and has also taken account of the views of his colleagues. our group supports the commission's proposal and also the rapporteur's view to create the appropriate legal basis for the establishment of the nomenclature. the issue is also relevant because the applicant countries will receive guidelines to strengthen the regional classification of their countries. one of the problems with the current nuts classification is that the country-by-country classification has been shaped by the traditions and needs of each country. one criticism is that the area of the regions has not been used as a statistical basis. the units are not communal and do not take into account, for example, low population density or gradual population decline. the objectives of clarity, comparability and impartiality of the regulation are to be welcomed. it is also important to define the rules for dealing with changes and to ensure that the nuts classification is not changed too frequently. we ask our group to support the amendment to add islands and outermost regions to article 3 (4) to avoid unnecessary reclassification. our group stresses that there is also a need for flexibility in classification in order to take due account of administrative considerations and, inter alia, geographical, social and economic circumstances. our group supports the rapporteur's view that the commission should examine the inclusion of nuts 4 in the regulation. the objective of classifying comparable areas is difficult and time-consuming. however, it is essential to obtain a fair classification that helps to target the right actions to the right areas.
- mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner lamy, i am pleased to say on behalf of the ppe-de group that the major groups in this parliament have had a fairly easy time reaching agreement on the joint statement which we will adopt after this debate tomorrow. it shows that on some major issues there is a common view across party lines. we have not seen much of commissioner lamy in recent months and for once we can say that we are very pleased. he has been energetically and skillfully shuttling around the world in an effort to lay the groundwork for the new round of wto negotiations, which should be decided in doha in mid-november. however, in his hectic schedule, mr lamy has had time to inform parliament's delegation to doha well and sufficiently. thank you for that, too, although i didn't realize his message was so incendiary that we had to have a fire drill while it lasted. my group fully supports the line of negotiation already decided by the council for the seattle meeting. the new round of negotiations on the liberalization of world trade and the development of the rules of the game must deal with matters on a broad basis in order to boost sustainable economic growth, to strengthen, develop and renew the trading system based on global rules and to ensure the fair distribution of its benefits. we are also pleased that the meeting will be held in doha, qatar. it is now, if ever, time to show that we cannot be intimidated by terrorism and that we will continue to pursue this business as usual approach to international cooperation for a more free and fair trade. it must also be about working for a better environment, social development, poverty reduction and human rights. some would like to abolish free trade, end the wto and return to bilateral regulated trade. that, ladies and gentlemen, would be the road to protectionism, then to a trade war and then to possible armed conflicts. it would be a road that would make all those who oppose freedom, democracy, the rule of law, social progress and human rights nod their heads in satisfaction. i thank all the colleagues who have worked to bring about a parliamentary meeting in the context of the doha meeting. i would like to mention by name my colleagues erika mann and konrad schwaiger. we have heard today that the representation of the united states congress is still uncertain. it is very desirable that the united states congress should have at least as strong a delegation as we have here, without which we are a little bit on opposite sides. i believe that in the coming years we can develop the parliamentary monitoring of world trade, which is important for opening up the work of an organisation like the wto to the public and thereby seeking acceptance for the activities within it.
- mr president, mr haarder was unable to attend, so i would like to thank and congratulate mr brok on his well-drafted report on behalf of the liberal group. the report is good, but it has not yet been able to take very broad account of the profound change in international politics since 9/11. we cannot yet fully grasp this change, but we know that it is very profound. u.s. officials have said that a second cold war has begun, and some have even spoken of a third world war. here in europe, the attempt has been made to avoid excessive drama and to avoid using the word 'war'. my personal opinion, however, is that in the course of time history will call this era world war iii. we must analyse very carefully what has happened and what is happening and very wisely tackle the problems that are now at hand. we need a broad global vision and a global approach - we need something that in english might be called global governance. finally, what i was going to say in my speech: the progress made in the common foreign and security policy in recent years has been based on the treaty of amsterdam. in particular, rapid progress has been made in crisis management. in the treaty of amsterdam we also made it our common task to safeguard the integrity of the union and to maintain peace at its external borders. these new contractual obligations have not yet been given a concrete content. at least initially, the question may be how to take account of the different geographical positions of the member states in the division of the burden and the work between them. it seems to make sense for the union as a whole that the member states at its common external borders should focus their resources primarily on their surveillance and defence and that they should participate in crisis management in a manner consistent with this primary task. i hope that the commission and the council will start to consider how the provisions of the treaty on the inviolability of the union and the protection of frontiers are to be taken into account in practice.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report in question states that the fight against terrorism must become a central part of the union's foreign and security policy. what could it be? the 11 september attacks revealed in one fell swoop the fallacy of the old security policy that has prevailed. the missile shield does not protect against terrorism - as i said the other night at our committee meeting - and weapons do not create justice; sometimes it may be possible to stop the continuation of injustice. but we're so vulnerable that we're dependent on each other. the best interests of all depend on the best interests of all. i propose that a new framework for the union's policy on dependence be created, both at the united nations and in the wto, as we have already said, and within the union itself. the link between internal and external security policy must be established; the distinction has been removed. in addiction policy, we use social workers instead of soldiers, nurses instead of bombs and teachers instead of missiles. the more people and nations get justice, the less terrorism is born, we all know that. i therefore ask the commission to draw up a clear guideline for the dependency policy for all the blocks. we have to get out of the cold war, out of the armed security. who would sleep peacefully on bombs now?
- mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr van dam, for the successful preparation of this report. increasing maritime safety requires continuous action. improving the safety of loading and unloading of bulk carriers is an important step in improving maritime safety. as with many matters relating to maritime safety, these instruments are also agreed on a voluntary basis within the international maritime organisation. since the acquis is currently applied only intermittently, it is appropriate to incorporate the acquis into community law. improving the loading and unloading of bulk carriers and the operation of ports will also help to develop important intermodal transport. in addition to further tightening the rules, it is necessary to ensure that the solutions are realistic and feasible. the council's main shortcoming, as the rapporteur points out, is that it is not necessary to provide information on all damage to the structure or equipment of the ship. i would also like to point out that the solutions to improve maritime safety within the union alone are not enough. safety and liability issues shall be addressed on a global basis wherever possible. the council's common position does not include all the proposals of parliament's first reading, but it must be moved quickly. our group supports the adoption of the common position as it stands.
- mr president, i too would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr vatasta, for his good preparation of the matter, which is aimed at making this important matter move forward quickly. a functioning internal market requires fluidity and more coherent practices in the transport sector. however, the reporting obligations for ships arriving and departing from ports vary considerably between member states. most member states have already signed the international maritime organisation convention for the facilitation of maritime transport. the proposal for a directive under consideration is a good example of the direct incorporation into legislation of practices which are already internationally recognised and well established. i think that in addition to improving safety at sea, it is important to simplify the practical procedures. the clear, uniform but flexible procedures of the maritime sector make it a more attractive alternative in the transport sector. this can have a particularly positive impact on short sea shipping. improving the efficiency of port practices will also facilitate the development of important intermodal transport. in view of the existence of several forms, attention will need to be paid in future to better use of electronic communication. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. the rapporteur has made some good amendments to the proposal for a directive. our group supports the adoption of the report and the rapid progress of the matter.
in writing. - (fi) like our group, we were in favour of paying mission expenses, secretarial allowances and administrative expenses on presentation of supporting documents. our group considers that the wording of amendment no 1 would mean that there is currently no adequate procedure. the amendment also completely ignores the fact that the solution of the problem is now in the hands of the council: the european parliament has proposed a procedure as set out in the amendment and is prepared to adopt it, but the council has not been able to give its consent. on the basis of the above, our group considers that the amendment unfairly and unjustifiably presents the european parliament in an unfavourable light.
in writing. -{sv) 20 million afghans suffer cruelly from bombings for reasons unknown to them. the un high commissioner for human rights called for an end to the bombing so that the population could be supplied with food before winter. three years of drought made the food supply situation unbearable. that is why i supported amendments nos 2 and 3 when voting on the resolution on the informal meeting of the european council in ghent. however, this decision is subject to the additional condition that the taliban allow transportation to the needy populations. we also call on pakistan to allow refugees to seek protection in its territory.
- (pt) mr president, the commission proposal is based on a strategy of separating production subsidies from prices, thereby simplifying the existing market organization. however, the fixed fee per animal is considerably low, as the basic price has not been increased since 1993. while it is true that the present system needs to be simplified, it is also essential to take account, as the rapporteur said, of the particular importance of sheep and goat farming in the lessfavoured areas of the community where it is concentrated. the main objective of all the reforms of this common organization of the market must therefore be to improve the incomes of sheep and goat farmers. on the other hand, it is necessary to take account of the fact that the relative position of sheep and goat farmers has deteriorated in recent years. i therefore welcome and support the increase in the aid per head of cattle to eur 30 and the additional aid of eur 9 for the least-favoured regions. in this sector, production is concentrated in less-favoured areas where the viability of the holdings is weaker, even though it plays an important role in maintaining the rural character of those areas and is in some cases the only economic option. it is also positive that the distinction between dairy and beef sheep is being removed and that the same increase in premium is also applied to suckler sheep. i also support the new aid of 5 euros because of the difficulties in this area, although the risk of renationalization, which is associated with the creation of national packages, must be taken into account. i therefore hope that this report will be welcomed by the house and, above all, by the commission, and that some of the sheep and goat farmers' greatest needs will be met.
madam president, i would like to thank you. parliament should be an open forum, which citizens should be able to follow. it is not parliament if we are dealing with the fiori report this week, because it is only available today in ten languages. i don't know about the 11th language, danish. according to our original timetable, which had been agreed by the conference of presidents, it was to be dealt with in november ii. we also do not see any reason to deal with it before the caudron report. that is why i ask on behalf of the liberal group that we move it to november ii. i think, madam president, that you might as well check the way the groups vote. on this point, as on many others, the groups are very divided, but above all the outside world should be able to follow what is happening. we members should also be able to form our own views on the extremely difficult issues dealt with in this report.
- mr president, i would like to comment on the fact that the finnish television is still not showing or receiving sound in the television system. we have been involved in this issue on four different occasions since the beginning of september: first by speaking, then by e-mail, then all the finnish members signed and sent a letter to the quaestors on 2 october, and then again at the first sitting in october i raised the matter. none of these requests has received any response. it's like talking to siberia. finland is a country of technological excellence, and we are ashamed of this kind of behaviour. i ask you to intervene quickly on this matter, because there is so much going on in the world that this one member state which has been left out of the information must be included immediately.
- mr president, it is probably undeniable that public opinion throughout europe is calling for an immediate end to the cruelty to animals associated with the transport of live animals. the eu has the means to reduce the problems, but it does not have the will. there are directives aimed at improving the conditions of animals during transport. however, they are not monitored. mr maat's report acknowledges the situation. it says that the transport directives are being violated. it shows the problems arising from the different driving and rest periods for drivers and animals being transported. it pays particular attention to exports of live animals to non-eu countries, which of course always have the longest journey. it recalls that transport is responsible for the explosion of infectious animal diseases. the most radical demand is that the commission be asked to stop paying export refunds for animals being transported to slaughter from the beginning of next year. the commission must respond to these demands, which will be the subject of an opinion by parliament, by meeting the ethical requirements of the civilized world in the eu, which is respect for life, also in the case of animals for slaughter.
- mr president, commissioner, it is self-evident that animal cruelty must be stopped. it is precisely this that is at the heart of the ethics of european agricultural production. the commission must have sufficient powers to intervene in the activities of the member states, the penalties must be sufficiently severe and the enforcement must be stepped up to remedy these matters. i thank the rapporteur, mr maat, for having taken account of the exceptions. there are rare areas, there are islands, there are long distances, and these areas also need to be able to operate, and they have also been taken into account in a balanced way. animal welfare is part of a larger whole. the regionalisation of the production chains has been the talk of the day and is a matter for the future, and it is against this background that the support for the transport of slaughter animals must be ended. it will help to promote regionalisation, the creation and development of regional chains.
deputy draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy. - mr president, the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, mr philippe herzog, is a member of the parliament's delegation to the wto in qatar and has therefore asked me to present the opinion of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy. it was adopted almost unanimously in committee, with only one member abstaining. our rapporteur does not believe that the commission's view that compliance with the rules of competition and the internal market is fully consistent with the provision of services of general interest is correct. the problem is the means of ensuring the provision of services. the rapporteur proposes the establishment of a european solidarity framework for services of general interest. he also called for a more transparent and democratic regulation, including in the context of possible eu enlargement. the rapporteur wishes to clarify the tasks and at the same time to strengthen the freedom of choice of the community and the states as regards the model for the provision of services and the management of it. the current market mentality and competition rules encourage privatisation, but the eu should retain the principle of diversity, i.e. there must be alternatives. the committee therefore takes the view that the gradual liberalisation of services in the eu must be accompanied by the maintenance of universal service. the principle has also been adopted that it is up to the member states to maintain their cultural customs and political views within their own territories. member states must be allowed to ensure that services of general interest are also available to the most deprived citizens. the committee's opinion shares the concerns of its draftsman about the need to safeguard universal services by drawing attention to the problems of funding and securing it.
- mr president, i would first like to thank mr meijer for the preparation of this report; he has done a lot of work on this complex subject. the development of public transport must take account of the interests of the passenger. it must be made so attractive that more people will be happy to choose public transport. this is particularly true in cities, where solutions to environmental problems and congestion problems must be found. the award of public transport services contracts is the correct procedure when the contract involves public support. the combination of open and controlled competition can lead to greater efficiency and better service. you really need competition in this business, too. flexibility in the application of the rules should be allowed to allow the maintenance of the procedures applied by the member states and found to be good. in my country, such successful solutions are the system of authorization for regular services and the urban and regional tickets. this is supported by the amendment to article 3 (c). its aim is to prevent the emergence of local and regional monopolies and to allow competition wherever possible. the aim is also to ensure well-functioning public transport systems in underdeveloped countries with long distances. the reasons for favouring public transport are also related to road safety and the reduction of accidents. achieving these objectives requires legislative flexibility. it must be possible to choose the most appropriate solutions for different circumstances and for each operating environment. the solutions must be practical and implemented in cooperation with local and regional actors.
- mr president, public transport must be developed for environmental reasons and for reasons of social equality, among other things, and, as has been said here, it must be made attractive. it is difficult to understand that competition is seen as the only way to achieve this objective. competition is a good tyre but a bad host and it is always a case-by-case consideration whether competition is the right way to increase cost efficiency and to improve efficiency and service quality. as the rapporteur, mr meijer, has said, unfortunately many municipalities have already anticipated the eu's future decisions and have started to compete, and not always with good results. i think that in this context we must also take account of the tried and tested measures taken in the various member states in the field of public transport: it must be possible to maintain the authorisation procedure which has proved to be a good and cost-effective one in finland.
- mr president, i too would like to thank mr chichester for his considerable work in preparing this matter. as stated here, the eu has limited powers to intervene in energy supply conditions. the possibilities for influence are limited to demand and thus to promoting energy savings in the construction and transport sectors. it is therefore essential to ensure the diversity of energy sources and the equal distribution of energy suppliers. local energy increases energy security, reduces dependence on energy imports and creates jobs. in particular, research into and use of renewable energy sources must be promoted. responsibility for maintaining the security of energy supply falls primarily within the scope of national energy policy. in order to improve security of supply, agreements with other countries must also be concluded. energy projects serving europe's common objectives are also an excellent way of giving substance to the eu's policy on the northern dimension.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for the part of the report in which this russian gas pipeline is built into the northern dimension. i would suggest, commissioner, that the commission take swift action to bring this northern gas to the balance of our energy situation. brown coal has gotten a lot of attention in this show. i therefore ask you: where is the peat, which is renewed every thousand years, now forgotten? but peat is now a plant of the poorest regions, whereas brown coal is of the richer ones! however, peat is an important combustion component in remote areas, and it is also a regional fuel. forty percent of the energy is used in buildings, for heating, water, air conditioning and lighting. we in finland had to make changes to the buildings during the last energy crisis and we have achieved good results in the tough conditions. we need to make buildings very energy efficient, because we have a lot of things to fix in buildings. for example, we must get used to the darkness. it's nice to be in the shadows and not always in the daylight, in the artificial light.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i want to emphasize that i do not speak for the eldr group. there are quite a number of our officials who have actually been dealing with this issue who are coming here to our debate today, but who may not have time to vote. i personally think we will be adopting too many amendments. if we look at research programmes and research questions, there is hardly any research programme in the whole of europe that is so politically driven. this is in stark contrast to the assessment made by manuel castells - yes, one can call him a social scientist - and the finnish philosopher pekka himanen, among others, of why finland is successful as an information society. in their otherwise rather vague book, they state that our technology and innovation policy is successful because we have a fully autonomous centre for technological development. this is something that i think is worth thinking about. in other contexts, finnish innovation policy is often praised. i think there is a lesson to be learned from this. i would also like to stress one thing that particularly bothers me about this proposal, namely that the social research proposed would definitely be placed in the wrong place, under the information society dg. social studies doesn't belong there. i don't really understand how it's come to this. we also know that the interest in the research questions has very largely revolved around stem cell research. today we can take a calm and collective stand on the caudron proposal. personally, i think the committee's proposal is well balanced. the committee's proposal also shows the humility and respect needed when we deal with research issues. i think that those who say that we should now focus on adult stem cells do not show the humility that we must have in this new area. working on the ad hoc committee on human genetics, i've learned that we know very little. we shall stick to the old principles and move forward within the various frameworks. furthermore, i have learned that the research projects for the two forms of stem cells are interdependent. they should therefore be given equal priority. i think that is extremely important if we are to move forward as a successful society. i hope that these comments are not too shocking but rather that they will make everyone think about the fact that our scientists should be able to do good research.
- mr president, the framework programme will provide €17.5 billion of eu membership fees for scientific activities in the coming years. the amount of money involved shows the importance of the matter. the codecision procedure takes power away from the commission and puts it in the hands of parliament. in this case, it is particularly justified. the model of mr caudron on the coordination and management of programmes and on the information and consultation of parliament should also be supported in the decision-making process on the detailed framework programme. the commission's choice of priority areas is well founded, as are parliament's complementary priorities, not all of which are purely information technology and artificial intelligence. a man's health depends on what he eats. it is justified to spend funds on research throughout the food chain. the new biotechnology is about the ethical foundations of all life, and therefore technology must be supplemented by the results of the human sciences. science cannot be dependent on the ethics of big corporations, and therefore it must be financed by public funds. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels, bioliquids and biomass fuels. it would be justified to allocate more funds to fusion research than the commission proposes. it is necessary to build a new tokamak for the joint use of all the member states, switzerland, canada, japan and russia. with the cuts in funding, this important project will be delayed and will delay the transition to fusion energy, which is already 50 years away. the activities of the eu joint research centre have not been given the necessary attention in the preparation of the framework programme. it also consumes scientific resources. the next five years will have to clarify its position in the scientific and research community of the eu and its member states; research resources must not be wasted.
- mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the good way in which he has prepared the report, taking account of the views of his colleagues. many of us have expressed concern about the possibility of smes participating in the framework programme, as the commission's original proposal does not give sufficient concrete details of these possibilities. the commission proposes so-called horizontal measures, which are difficult for smes to take part in, at least at the initial stage. the amendments adopted by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy to continue the existing arrangements such as the craft programme are therefore necessary. same goes for the prep money. these are things that companies have become accustomed to and have done a lot of good. why would a good arrangement be removed? this is the subject of amendment no 265. the share of the companies is set at 15%. this too must be made concrete in the actual indicative financial tables when they are adopted at a later stage.
- mr president, this proposed amendment is perfectly suited to be an amendment, so it can be voted on as an amendment.
in writing. - (fi) transnational insurance activity increases the consumer's choice between different insurers. the proposal for a directive before us now allows registered insurance brokers to operate in other member states as well. when choosing between several insurance companies, the citizens of the union must nevertheless be able to be sure that we, the european legislators, guarantee consumer protection by ensuring a high level of professionalism and competence among insurance intermediaries. the report we drew up in the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the directive on insurance intermediation is, on the whole, satisfactory. we ensure that the intermediary has the required professional knowledge, is covered by liability insurance or any other equivalent guarantee and has sufficient financial capacity. the insurance intermediary shall also provide guarantees of good repute and proof that it has not been declared bankrupt. but we must also ensure that the provisions of the union do not create unnecessary bureaucracy. we in the committee have tabled a number of amendments which, according to experts, give the directive a lot of common sense and give the member states the opportunity to develop solutions which take account of national conditions. we have reached compromises which seem to be supported by a majority of member states in the council. it is important that the directive does not apply to persons whose main occupation is a professional activity other than insurance intermediation. i am thinking in particular of travel agents who also offer their customers travel insurance as part of a package. these travel insurance policies make life much easier for the customer and are subject to the supervision of the authorities, for example in finland. travel insurance often includes accident insurance which covers death benefits. it is good to have made it clear that these are not the life insurance covered by this directive. it would also have been more favourable to refrain from applying the directive to representatives working under the responsibility of an insurance company or to insurance undertakings which are, under national law, responsible for the acts of the person in question and also offer the person in question adequate training. since it has unfortunately been impossible to keep parttime workers working under the responsibility of a company completely outside the directive, it is nevertheless a good thing that the registration requirement should be relaxed in the way proposed in our committee. the relationship between amendment no 14 and amendments nos 13 and 6 is unclear, since amendment no 14 allows, for example, travel insurance and animal insurance to be left entirely outside the directive, whereas in other paragraphs, agents selling the insurance in question are only exempted from the obligation to register. if there is still room for amendments, i would propose that amendments nos 18 and 22 be withdrawn. the sale of insurance products offered by banks is an insurance activity like any other, it does not need to have its own rules.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, the european union and south korea have so far been engaged in fruitless negotiations to establish healthy competition in the world shipbuilding market. the commission has now adopted a strategy to bring the matter to the wto dispute settlement process. i support this decision and thank all the members of the commission who have actively contributed to its adoption. at the same time, however, the commission made its proposal that production aid to individual yards could be temporarily authorised during the wto process. the commission proposal for a regulation states that the aid schemes are exceptional and temporary measures and only concern limited types of vessels. the commission proposal may appear justified at first sight, but in reality it distorts competition both on the world market and within the eu and lacks a valid legal justification. the link between the subsidy mechanism and the wto procedure is entirely artificial. these matters are not naturally connected and should therefore be dealt with separately. we all understand this, as those of us who are involved in political activity: this is a political process, not a legal process. if we want to rely on the wto, we must act in accordance with the wto rules ourselves. in distributing aid, the eu itself is engaging in the trade-distorting practices it now accuses korea of. this puts us in a bad light and weakens our negotiating position in the wto. i said that the commission's proposal also distorts competition within the eu. even if only certain types of ships are eligible, the shipyards receiving aid will always benefit from the aid and thus be in a better position than other shipyards. in particular, this is hampering the position of the high-technology shipyard industry, which has rightly responded to increased competition by concentrating on products with higher technology requirements. my country, finland, among others, has reduced its support for shipyards as agreed from the outset and we have invested heavily in the production of cruise ships and other high-tech vessels. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's shipping industry is able to compete in the world market.
- mr president, i have a point of order. i think it is very unsatisfactory for the work of members of the european parliament that reports are constantly moved to completely different points in the agenda of the sitting. the peijs report was originally scheduled for the afternoon session, then we were informed that it had been moved to the 9 p.m. session, then suddenly at 5.15 p.m. there was a notice that it was being discussed now. this is not acceptable in terms of the organisation of the members' schedules. the second point i would like to make is the absence of the council. the council's question period begins now. they would certainly have had the opportunity to come half an hour earlier to discuss, for example, this very important subject for the shipbuilding industry. but the council is once again shining through its absence. i'm sorry about this.
- mr president, parliament has for years been calling on the commission to take measures to reduce bank charges for consumers in the euro area. the current situation, where a payment of eur 100 is subject to a bank handling fee of up to eur 23, is unsustainable. this was also mentioned by other colleagues. moreover, after the turn of the year, the problem will only become more widespread as the 12 euro area member states move to the cash-zone. the development of the payment system and the reduction of costs for banks and thus for consumers is one of the top priorities of our economic committee. the commission certainly agrees with this objective, but the means of achieving it differ in some respects from the original wishes of parliament. structural problems should not be forced to be solved. the only way to reduce crossborder bank charges in a sustainable way is to enable the euro area to develop technical standards for the automated processing of payments. the current high cost is due to the fact that payments have to be processed manually. this atomic paperwork is costing us time and money. however, as there is not enough consensus in the banking industry to achieve such a technical standard, parliament has emphasised the role of the ecb in the development of the payment system in several reports on the subject. the european parliament called on the ecb to convene a working group of industry experts at the end of last year to set up a suitable standard. the idea of parliament was that the working group would have worked during the year and the proposal would have been made public before christmas, so that the new standard, binding on all banks, would have been in fact in place before the e-moment at the turn of the year, after which commercial banks could have adopted it at any time they wished. such an arrangement would naturally also have conferred a competitive advantage on those financial institutions which are able to move to the new system more quickly than others. it's a shame we couldn't get to this. this time, therefore, we must support the commission's proposal, which is certainly not in line with parliament's original wishes in all respects.
- mr president, the liberal group believes that the convention should propose alternative basic models for the development of the eu. one of the options is the ongoing move towards federalism. the transnational commission would evolve into a federal government with executive powers and legislative authority for the union, acting on the basis of the confidence of the transnational european parliament. the council of ministers would become the second chamber of parliament. in addition to this federalist model, a structure based on the principles of statehood must be considered. the council of ministers, composed of representatives of the member states, would be the leading institution. the council, with its right of initiative, would not be able to act as a legislative body representing the member states as it does today. in this case, in order to strengthen the position of the member states, a second chamber should be set up alongside the supranational parliament, composed of members of the national parliaments. i believe that this type of decentralised system of government is more appropriate for an enlarged european union than the model of a centralised federation.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i am presenting a report here tonight on improving the quality of fuels. the european parliament was involved in the drafting of this legislation, which was originally adopted in 1998, that is, more than three years ago, and it did quite well in the co-decision procedure to push through cleaner fuels which help to reduce transport emissions considerably. the european parliament already then recognised that one of the key elements in improving the quality of fuel is to reduce its sulphur content. we were able to get through the codecision procedure and the conciliation that both petrol and diesel sulphur levels were brought down considerably despite the fact that the oil industry was very strongly emphasising the cost of this programme. on the other hand, we can say that the automobile and catalytic industry felt it was absolutely essential that these low-energy cleaner fuels should be brought to market, because otherwise they could not have produced cleaner, better and more advanced engines with lower emissions. we are now in the process of revising the directive, and the commission has rightly noted that sulphur is an even more strategic ingredient in the quality of fuels than we understood at the time. the commission proposes that by 2011 both petrol and diesel fuel should be virtually free of emissions. we're talking about very low concentrations. this is essential because it has been found that fuel consumption also decreases as sulphur levels decrease, and in the meantime climate policy has become a key objective in the european union. we must find all possible ways of reducing the fuel consumption of cars. that is one of the main aims of this proposal. the european parliament will then decide, hopefully tomorrow, that we will have these clean fuels on the market 100% by 2008 and not by 2011 as the commission proposes. we believe that this is entirely possible and that it will have a positive impact on the development of cars. the automobile industry will be able to develop better and more advanced engines that consume less fuel. we also take as a starting point what the commission proposes, namely that this marketing should start in 2005. it is important that parliament decides that clean fuels should be available throughout the union gradually from 2005 onwards. we demand that this access be geographically widespread. in the past, the pace of improvement in fuel quality has varied slightly between member states. the committee on the environment proposes that member states be given the possibility of certain transitional periods or derogations when this directive is next revised. parliament proposes that this revision should take place a year earlier than the commission has decided; we want the revision to take place in 2005. contrary to what some have demanded, the committee on the environment has decided that nothing but the bankrupt is to be touched in this context. the 2005 revision may then return to other fuel quality parameters. i think this is a justified line, because the commission has time to examine the matter in the meantime. i would also like to stress that work machines, such as non-road machines, must also switch to using cleaner fuels. this is entirely possible: in eight member states diesel fuel is already used in machines. i hope that tomorrow parliament will agree that these machines will use cleaner fuels as much as vehicles on the road.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. do we want europe to become a museum? that was the question asked by one of my colleagues in the eldr group after reading the report on human genetics. there are many ethical issues and dimensions to this debate. we have the important ethical dimension of respect for human suffering and for the human being, but we also have an ethically motivated desire to alleviate suffering. it is the first of these dimensions, respect for human beings, which has dominated the committee's report. what we are discussing here is not legislation, but we are sending important signals to those who are concerned by these issues, to the scientific community and to people who are sick. are we sending signals to the scientific community that it is hardly worthwhile to try to conduct promising stem cell research in europe? are we sending signals to patients suffering from diseases that today have no cure or treatment that we do not want to try research pathways that would lead to relief for them? we liberals are humble before knowledge and research. we're also humble when it comes to stem cell research. at this stage, we don't know exactly what this might mean for humans, but animal studies have shown promise. we must not therefore exclude embryonic stem cell research, but it must be able to work in parallel with research on other stem cells. by doing parallel research, we can increase our knowledge. you both need each other. we believe that public support for research is an important guarantee that the results will be heard by the widest possible public and benefit the whole world. we would have liked the sixth framework programme for research to have supported therapeutic cloning. a total ban on certain research leads to greater risks of abuse and speculation. surely there are parts of research that should be overseen by public bodies! i believe that public support also increases the possibilities for monitoring. the liberal group believes that it is important to continue and, above all, to deepen the discussions. however, no one should have a monopoly on ethical issues. personally, i have serious doubts about the way the european group on ethics, which advises the commission, has operated. it hasn't been in the open. i also do not think that criticism within the group is allowed. we also need to think much more deeply in parliament than we could in the temporary committee. there are issues of insurance, genetics and working conditions. the debate on genetics will, however, be held in all committees. that way, it's more balanced than it's ever been. finally, on behalf of the liberals, i would say that the report in its present form is such that we cannot vote for it. only if certain amendments are adopted will we be able to support the final result.
- (fi) mr president, i would like to join in the congratulations: mr fiori has done a tremendous job and the result is responsible and good. we christian democrats have taken a reserved attitude to the creation of human embryos for cloning, both for therapeutic and reproductive purposes. we are not opposed to the development of genetic engineering, but we say yes to research. but we want it to be done with respect for human dignity. human life is precious in itself, from the beginning, and therefore its value must be consciously safeguarded. over the past year, i have often heard it said that we cannot shackle science or stop progress. this sentence is embarrassingly inaccurate and careless. we all agree that certain types of development must be stopped, because nobody in this room wants to allow reproductive cloning. that's how much of our history we remember. but it seems that some have forgotten that the early-century racial hygienists were also the leading scientists of their day, not demons. they wanted to help mankind within their own world of values, just as many do today. it is therefore essential that politicians now take up the ethical responsibility that is theirs. we must pay attention to the values that are being promoted. the ethical debate on genetic engineering has often been glossed over as a terrifying threat from the superman, but the real danger is not so much the idea of creating a superman as the control of a subhuman. this is embodied in social hygiene, which seeks to isolate the wrong life-forms from the favorable ones and to destroy the unfit ones. the representatives of disabled groups who have visited our committee have also reminded us of this: we should not create a society in which only the healthy are welcome. in at least two respects therapeutic and reproductive cloning are not different: technically, they are the same procedure, and from the embryo's point of view, in both cases it is a commodity for something other than its own unique purpose. how can we ensure that we do not go on to clone people just because we have technically done it? we need to have a serious discussion about this now so that we can see what we are really deciding.
- mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. as already noted, the european parliament has been very active for several years on food safety issues. the rapporteur has also done a very good job in consulting the commission and the council to ensure that the food authority does not start late, that is to say that the laeken summit will indeed decide on the location of the agency. i think that parliament has said quite rightly about the selection criteria: it is worth emphasizing the link between research, the independence of the agency and the fact that it is staffed with efficient experts to guarantee quality. i can only agree with the previous speakers on transparency, but transparency also means working with consumer organisations.
the rapporteur. - mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest change in europe is of course the networking which unites us europeans more than the single currency. it is daily and it is all the time and it is growing in importance all the time. the whole idea behind the great project of electronic europe is that the digital divide will not be realized in europe as it is in danger of being realized in many other parts of the world, and we, parliament, the council and the commission, are in agreement on this. the commission's proposal for a framework directive, like the other acts in this telepack, is straightforward and quite balanced, and i am very pleased with it. in this fast-changing era, we are catching up with what we have been lagging behind, and in particular the importance of convergence, of convergence, has been taken into account. this means that the same content can be produced on the same equipment, transmitted on the same routes and received on the same equipment to an increasing extent. and this creates a whole new information space, or perhaps i should say information world, because it's part of us, it's part of us at work, at home, when we're on the move. we in parliament want this world to be regulated, but at the same time to be competitive, so that there are no monopolies, duopolies or cartels. this maintains low price levels, this maintains easy access, and this maintains employment and growth in this region. i would say that if we had had these provisions in place when we decided on electronic europe in lisbon and when the auction of spectrum was launched at the same time, this spectrum auction disaster would not have happened. the auctions could have been standardized and harmonized, and there would have been no such divergence, the sector would not have been brought to its knees and we would have been spared many hundreds of bankruptcies and the unfortunate consequences of unemployment. as the telepack brings together the union's telecommunications legislation, it is of great importance in competing with others outside the european union. we will have a more harmonized market for this sector, which is already international and transnational. we will then also be able to exploit the european union's economies of scale, which will again have an impact on employment, the chances of success of firms and prices. of these five acts, i consider the framework directive to be the most important. it's where they put the most complicated stuff. we now have before us the committee's consideration of my draft report, for which i thank you - it was unanimously adopted - and then the presidency's proposal. it has gone very far against parliament and i think we should accept it. it has taken account of parliament's position on two key issues that we have raised throughout the summer and autumn: article 6 and article 4. the latter concerns the appeal procedure and the former the relationship between the commission and the national regulatory authorities. for the first time - and this is a breakthrough - the commission can intervene in a national act if it is incompatible with general acts both in terms of the definition of the market and of significant market position. these are the two things we wanted to see happen and now - thank you, mr president - they are in your report and i hope that the presidency can tell us whether it is possible for the council to commit itself to this. if so, then i think this package should be accepted. i understand that the commission also takes this view.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr commissioner, mr minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. if we reach an agreement this week, it will be one of the few decisions where the european council timetables will become a reality. this is a good reason why we should try to achieve something in this area, unlike what has sometimes happened with other decisions on liberalisation. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur with whom i have worked closely, malcolm harbour. i would like to agree with the speakers who have said that we are now introducing important rules for disabled users. in some contexts i have been made fun of because our rules have not been as advanced as those of other major markets. i would also like to stress what malcolm harbour said about the principle of 'must carry'. the intensity with which we have debated television issues in recent weeks shows that it is not possible to separate content from the principles we had when we first debated convergence. we are talking about important cultural values, where the commission and the member states must be able to derogate even from strict commercial rules. we should support the compromise in the paasilinna report. in this context, i also hope that the commission will apply a fairer competition policy between large and small countries than we have seen, so that small and different markets can continue to exist. this is something that may not have been given enough attention. now to the question of digital television. i very much regret the council's position on the api for digital receivers. the european parliament has in many contexts clearly advocated an open, common, accepted standard. there is no market here, as in many other matters. that's why you can't call the market. i hope that before we vote on wednesday the commission will be able to say when and what measures it intends to take to bring about interoperability, a real freedom of choice for consumers. i hope therefore that the commission will be able to make a statement before we vote on wednesday. this is important for the competitiveness of this sector in relation to other sectors in the telecommunications sector.
- mr president, mr commissioner, i would also like to begin by expressing my warm thanks to mr graefe zu baringdorf, president of the eldr group, and to our negotiating team, who did an excellent job and showed by example that when you believe in your cause and make an effort to achieve it, you can achieve your goals. parliament got what it wanted here. this is very important for farmers - for people who have to deal with these things in their day-to-day work - this information is particularly important to them. as graefe zu baringdorf has pointed out, in germany the open declaration was abolished in 1979, in finland it was abolished in 1995. now it's going back. the only thing that was discussed, and on which it is worthwhile to dwell for a moment, is this list of permitted substances, and that is precisely the fact that the various ingredients are constantly changing, including the by-products of the food industry that kindermann mentioned; new feed ingredients are constantly being added, others are being removed. how to keep this list up to date in practice is a particularly important issue and may involve some problems. so it is good to use common sense here. we think and see what is right and what is good, and then we act on the basis of experience. i would also like to thank the committee on budgets for the excellent work they have done for parliament and for farmers in particular.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, the opening of a new broad three-year round of negotiations at the doha meeting is a very positive milestone both for the world trade organisation and for the current world economic situation. the doha development agenda, which includes elements of both trade liberalisation and new rules of the game, underlined the commitment of developed countries to strengthen the capacity of developing countries and to assist them in implementing the wto provisions already in place. i strongly believe that the small groups who have been vocal in their opposition to globalisation have now received a clear response from the developing countries in doha. we want to be part of the process of liberalizing and clarifying the rules of the game in world trade, because this is also in the interests of the developing countries. after all, every country had the opportunity to torpedo the consensus, but no one did. the accession of china and taiwan to the wto in doha was also a major milestone. it is hoped that russia will be able to clarify its own internal structures in such a way that it will also be involved. the union's own objectives in doha were at least well achieved. the successful conduct of the difficult negotiations, which lasted several days, by commissioners lamy and fischler is a commendable achievement. the internal cohesion of the council also remained good at all times, which was of course a precondition for the adoption of the outcome of the negotiations on behalf of the union. in addition to the actual negotiation process, commissioners lamy and fischler, as well as minister neyts-uyttebroeck, kept us, the members of parliament who were following us, very well informed of where we were going. sustainable development and environmental consideration in trade policy decisions were adopted as the overarching objective of the forthcoming negotiations, something which is certainly of central importance to us as a union country. the negotiations on trade in agricultural products, which are also being conducted with a broad agenda but without a predetermined outcome in terms of forms of support and timetables, will now allow peaceful negotiation on this difficult subject as the union's common agricultural policy is being renewed. our group of parliamentarians, who have spoken to several delegations in doha, regretted that the us congress did not send its representatives to doha. as we continue to work towards developing the wto's transparency and parliamentary monitoring of ministerial meetings, the presence of the us congress is essential. it is also realistic to say that only with the approval of governments can we make any progress on this issue. i hope that germany, as we heard informally in doha, will bring the matter to the formal wto bodies in the short term.
the committee on culture, youth, education, media and sport has adopted an opinion. - mr president, i shall now concentrate solely on sport, or rather its absence from the draft budget adopted by the council. the european union has already adopted a declaration on the social role of sport at several successive summits, most recently in nice. nevertheless, sport is not given much consideration in the union's activities. the situation has been further exacerbated by the fact that the eu has unfortunately had to withdraw its funding from wada. the committee on budgets has reiterated the proposal of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, adopted at first reading by parliament, for a budget of eur 5 million for preparatory measures for community policy in the field of sport. the appropriation is intended to cover, inter alia, the prevention of the exclusion of young people from the workforce of sports clubs. i hope that this motion will be supported by parliament when it is put to the vote on thursday. it would also be in line with the preparations for the year of physical education.
- mr president, first of all i would like to express my sincere congratulations and thanks to mr costa neves, the rapporteur for the budget, for his excellent budget proposal and for the constructive cooperation. i would also like to thank the other rapporteur, kathalijne buitenweg, and especially the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr terence wynn, for his skillful and constructive leadership of the committee. the 2002 budget now before us is moderate and disciplined. the appropriations will increase by only 2%, which is well below the financial perspective. the european parliament has shown a great sense of responsibility, which my group appreciates. the budget has improved considerably compared with the first council proposal. the agricultural budget is realistic. titles 2 to 4 have more resources to cover outstanding commitments and are covered by the joint declaration on the dismantling of abnormal locks. the reform of the commission is progressing and expenditure that should not have been spent has been cut. we particularly appreciate the fact that the negative reserve, the uncovered appropriation, has not been used. the first reading of the budget saw cuts in external actions, including the cards programme for the western balkans. now these cuts have been largely unwound. the total amount of eur 206.4 million is proposed for the balkans. in addition, already this year's transfers provided eur 63 million in advance for the cards programme, so that in total the programme will be brought back into line with the council's draft budget. this was very important for my group. the commission's reform will be accompanied by 317 posts, which will ensure that the reform is moving forward. of these, 105 are in reserve and our group hopes that at least a large number of them could still be released. the flexibility instrument had to be introduced again this year. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. the commission will be providing eur 30 million and eur 15 million next year to resolve the problems of the border areas of the new member states. our group supports all these solutions.
- mr president, the debate on the use of the flexibility instrument was the main topic of discussion at the conciliation meeting between the council and parliament. the commission would have gone on to commit eur 197 million for the dismantling of the spanish and portuguese fishing fleets, which is a lot of money. the nordic countries also demanded eur 50 million to resolve the problems of the eastern border areas. it was decided to finance these new needs under the flexible instrument in chapter 2 but over a period of two years. the new interpretation of the use of flexibility shows that if there is a political will to fund something, the rules will be accommodating. the eu is not short of money. this is shown by the 2000 financial statements. this year too, there is a surplus of billions. there are 40 billion abnormal commitments, or rals, and it is likely that most of them will never be used. the commission has saved money, but it is doubtful that it has made political decisions to save. with such large budgetary deficits, the commission has not implemented the budgetary decisions taken by parliament. it must be said quite frankly that the commission arbitrarily annuls the decisions of parliament. if we look at the eu next year from a budgetary point of view, we can say that it will be a smooth ride: no increases and no decreases. there are no specific priorities, but the budget finances only current expenditure. the council's lack of ambition to tackle the problem of unemployment is also reflected in the commission's draft budget, and our group is therefore critical of the proposal. as a small detail, the council also did not want to end the transport of live animals altogether. the cruelty to animals in transport continues, and it is the fault of the council of agriculture ministers.
- mr. speaker, i do have one more question. it is very important that the safety and health regulations apply in the maritime sector, especially in the case of oil tankers. compliance with environmental legislation is also very important. we have had a number of projects in europe since the erica disaster to improve environmental legislation on oil tankers. yesterday an oil spill was detected in finland, in the turun archipelago near a nature reserve, apparently due to some kind of environmental law violation, or at least the cause is not yet clear. i would like to hear from the commissioner what action can be taken also in the field of environmental legislation to bring the perpetrators to justice and whether it is possible for the commission to take action also in the case of such oil accidents as those which occurred last year in gotland and the erika accident off the coast of france and now in turku, finland.
since there have been some errors and possibly problems concerning digital television in this telecom package, i would like to ask the commission to comment on how it will act if this package is adopted in plenary.
- mr president, i agree with the questions put to the council and the commission by my colleagues. i would like to ask in particular that this interinstitutional cooperation committee finally be set up, because there is a lot of talk between parliament, the commission and the council in order to achieve the real transparency required by this regulation. i also agree with mr cashman that parliament cannot accept that the secretaries-general should discuss these matters on behalf of politicians, because transparency is a very political issue as a fundamental democratic issue. we must also look at our future challenges once we have, hopefully, resolved all these open questions about this regulation. this has been an important first step, but we still have many new challenges ahead of us. i want to mention some of them here. i think that what is becoming more and more of a problem is what mr watson, the chairman of the committee on legal affairs and internal market, actually mentioned yesterday at a seminar: this counter-terrorism and third pillar issues are leading to an intolerable situation, because the council is still adopting these anti-terrorism laws behind very closed doors and parliament has little influence on these issues. i think we must face this challenge: we must also make the third pillar genuinely part of the public domain. otherwise there is no democratic accountability whatsoever. secondly, i would like to mention the problem of the protection of personal data. and from what i can see, we have a real problem, too. of course we must protect personal data, but we cannot accept that the names and personal data of industry representatives who are involved in the commission's negotiations, for example, can be concealed in the name of data protection. no, this is a misunderstanding, and we must ensure that we are working towards transparency in these matters, so we have a lot of work to do.
- (sv) mr president, i have a question for the commissioners. have the ways in which the principle of transparency has been applied been examined? the applicant was not able to obtain the documents which had been approved by the court of justice. it reminds me of george orwell's "animal farm", where some are more equal than others. despite the effort, i have decided that no one can win. if the search lasts more than a week, we cannot speak of transparency. secondly, your reaction to the specific report of the ombudsman which was approved... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the good preparation of the reports and also for the good results achieved in the conciliation procedure. these legislative proposals, which are part of the erika 1 package, are truly essential measures to improve maritime safety. the commission has also made progress with a reasonable degree of speed and the conciliation process has resulted in the substantial amendments to the texts requested by parliament. as regards classification societies, community competence should be extended to the approval and supervision of such societies. as the rapporteur has pointed out, the classification society must not be controlled by ship owners or builders or by any other commercial operator in the sector. the inspections of vessels must also be increased. extended inspections shall be specifically targeted at vessels at risk. for vessels on the high-risk blacklist, the criteria for the vessel's access to port should be more stringent. in order to prevent accidents as effectively as possible in advance, prior notification of vessels and mandatory inspections of vessels at risk are necessary. the port state control directive will improve the harmonisation and efficiency of port state control procedures. it is appropriate that vessels will in future be equipped with navigation data recorders and that clearly under-qualified vessels may be denied access to eu ports. the accelerated transition to biplane ships must be managed in such a way as to avoid insurmountable problems in terms of ship scrapping and new ship construction. at the same time, the flexibility of oil transport must be safeguarded. the safety of navigation and the prevention of marine pollution can be promoted by the mandatory implementation by flag states of existing conventions in force. in addition to further tightening the rules, it is necessary to ensure that the solutions are realistic and feasible. the eu's white paper on transport focuses on promoting waterborne transport. the environmental benefits of water transport make it particularly suited to heavy goods transport. however, in the event of accidents, waterways are very vulnerable and environmental damage knows no bounds. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include maritime safety in the area of maritime transport. we need international agreements, including those with russia, whose ships will increasingly sail through the gulf of finland and the baltic sea in the future.
- mr president, yesterday a tragic report came to us from finland: the beautiful beaches of runsala near turku have been smeared with oil by an oil lease of unknown origin. however, the proposals we are discussing today are not the only ones that can be applied in such situations. this is a classic example of an oil lease of unknown origin. and despite the re-regulation of dock dues which we have decided on at eu level, the wind is met name more small lozingen place in the baltic sea. the chances of the vervuilers being convicted are also very small. at the same time, the seas of primorsk are opening up. these ports have a lot of ice and it is known that the packages we are currently taking may fit in 2017 double-decked vessels. but the double walls have no meaning as long as the ice in the sea of primorsk has formed. only by means of a pilot project, effective strengthening of the ice walls, effective shipping control and adequate cooperation in the field of rescue operations can we make a difference in this unique part of the world. madam commissioner, i would ask you to pay attention to the safety of shipping to primorsk in your contacts with russia.
mr president, i really regret that the representatives of the presidency are not present as we discuss this very important issue. our ageing european society calls for clear strategies to ensure the adequacy of pension systems. several measures, such as increasing the retirement age of an ever healthier population and thus increasing the size of the active workforce, are a crucial step in improving the ratio between the active working population and retired persons. but it is evident that other measures have to be implemented as well. the importance of occupational pensions schemes will rise in many member states. the european citizen would benefit from single market occupational pension schemes. the variety of occupational pension schemes and providers would be improved. the citizen and his employer could thus choose the most successful and best suited scheme, bringing the best interest rates, while offering full security of investment. more and more europeans work for relatively short periods of time in another member state. they are still disadvantaged when it comes to their occupational pension schemes. tax obstacles stand in the way of a fully functioning single market. the commission communication sets a strategy to resolve these obstacles that are a clear disincentive to individuals who wish to contribute to pension schemes outside their home member states, as well as pension institutions that wish to provide pensions across borders. i welcome the commission communication as a first step towards a solution of this issue. like mr pronk, i wholeheartedly support the so-called eet model, as outlined in the commission communication and in our committee's report. the eet model means that pension inputs are exempted from taxation. the pension scheme as well would be exempt and only the output would be taxed. this system serves to defer taxation to the moment the pension becomes payable, thus avoiding double taxation without the need to harmonise the level of taxation and without thus interfering in the member states' taxation practice. tax issues are in the hands of the member states. like our rapporteur, mrs van den burg, who has done an excellent job with this report, i also wholeheartedly support the method of open coordination. it is the only way we can achieve the results which our fellow european citizens need. i strongly urge the member states to work quickly to achieve the necessary results for the benefit of our ageing population. although we in the european parliament may for the time being unfortunately not have the legislative means to decide on these issues, i can assure you that we follow them very closely and will do our best to achieve a common market for occupational pension schemes.
- (sv) mr president, i am speaking this evening both as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on petitions and as a swedish representative of the eldr group. i am very pleased that the rapporteur has referred to the opinion of the committee on petitions and that we take the problems of the citizens seriously. i would refer to the statistical data in the opinion, which shows that over the past ten years more than five hundred petitions have been submitted on these issues - almost a hundred during this sitting period - of which fourteen concerned the relations between finland and sweden. the large number of petitions concerning finland and sweden is of course the result of the fact that in the nordic countries since the 1950s a free labour market exists and that the finns who had established themselves in sweden at that time are now returning to their homes. thousands of them reportedly lived in the town of haparanda, near the finnish border, because they could not afford to return to finland. this situation shows what problems we are facing. the problem is so topical that it was mentioned in the jubilee book on the 60th anniversary of the finnish judge at the court of justice, leif sevon, in which professor edward andersson discussed the issue, which is also mentioned in the commission's communication. one problem that could be better highlighted is the diversity of bilateral tax agreements in oecd countries in europe. these different agreements are a problem and i think the open method of coordination should also be affected. it is interesting that this issue is being discussed by the commission. may i offer you my congratulations! a similar study in the nordic countries concluded that the government was not the problem, while the citizens were. he also found that the investigation he had conducted during his eight years in the ministry had been unsuccessful. i therefore hope that some of the measures proposed by the rapporteur will also be implemented, such as access to better information on the rules in force. i greatly appreciate the courageous action of the commission, which means that it is also prepared to submit a complaint to the court of justice with the aim of obtaining concrete interpretations with regard to the tax and other charges where the problems exist. i think that the recognition of the tax deductions and the level of taxation at the source also constitutes a problem. it is particularly important that we work together to ensure that the public in your area has good access to information.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. in addition to what has been said by my colleagues, i would like to add that it is gratifying to see the joy shown by the afghan women. however, we are also concerned about the fear that exists at the same time. the afghan women have good reason to be afraid. we know that the northern alliance has also committed crimes, such as forced marriage. it's important that women and children survive the winter. at the same time, it is important to move forward with the measures mentioned here: full access to education and health care for women and young girls. we must immediately adopt a legal approach. the afghan women should not have to beg for the right to education as a favor, but it should be a right. in this way they gain the dignity and education they need. we also need to allocate money, but in this area we need ethnic equality between the different groups. we welcome the outcome of the bonn conference, but we must continue our work. i would also like to draw commissioner nielson's attention to the special report drawn up by my predecessor, mrs rehn, on un peacekeeping operations, and ask him to note that there is much to be done in the way peacekeepers deal with women. there is a need for women in peacekeeping forces, and there is a need for an understanding of how to deal with women who have been victims of violence. i hope that the un will support the proposal put forward by elisabeth rehn in her report to kofi annan. the question of guilt also needs to be investigated, i.e. who is guilty of what. it's the only way to heal. i believe that there are many international experiences in this area which we can take advantage of. last but not least, commissioner nielson, a relatively serious question. we need dogs too! my dogs are very important in cleaning up all this destruction. i hope that the eu can provide support in this area as well.
- mr president, at this year's sakharov prize dinner, there was talk again of the possibility of bringing all these laureates together. the two winners face the same obstacle as before: they are still in prison, leyla zana in a turkish prison and aung san suu kyi under house arrest in burma. this is intolerable and at the same time a reminder to us that human rights work needs not only celebration but also longterm commitment and monitoring. as both are also dangerous criminals in the eyes of their governments, i cannot help but notice that the first sakharov prize winner, nelson mandela, and the anc he led at the time, seem to fit the definition of terrorism that the eu is currently using. now we who opposed apartheid are being exposed as supporters of terrorism. we are in danger of forgetting that without strong contradictions, without social polemics, there can be no democracy. the right to political dissent and to express it, as well as the legal protection of those who may be suspected of being involved, must be protected much better than is currently the case in laeken.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the developments in nepal are worrying. for example, i myself, who had planned to travel there in the next few months, have been advised against going. nepal is one of the poorest countries in the world with a gdp per capita of only $220 per year. the development of children in nepal is very problematic. it is estimated that 54 percent of children under five years of age are too short, suffering from what is called stunting, due to poor nutrition. illiteracy is another major problem. sixty-three percent of men can read, but only 28 percent of women. this trend continues in terms of access to basic and higher education. this is why the finnish section of unicef has launched one of its largest projects to improve girls' schooling in nepal and promote rural development. another problem is the fact that the education system is highly politicized. despite the unrest in the country, however, the project continues both in kathmandu and outside the city. the people i have spoken to say that the uprising that has just taken place cannot be called maoist directly, but that it is a general development. some people in this house believe that there is a great risk that nepal will be divided in the same way as tibet. my spokesmen have not agreed. we are also aware that the unrest in the country is caused by the fact that the people do not really trust the person who took over after the tragic events in the royal family this summer. in part, the lack of trust is due to the suspicion that high-ranking members of the royal family have been involved in other murders besides those that took place this summer. we believe that there are serious threats to human rights, to freedom of the press, to traditional freedoms, to which we must pay attention. however, the rest of the country's development must continue.
- mr president, dear nicole, i also want to thank you on behalf of my group for these two and a half years. i would like to say in particular that our group has been very proud of you every time you have defended human rights in the world. you have been quick to take action in situations where people's lives have been threatened. i also remember the case of the ghanaian children who died in the wreckage of the plane and they sent a message to europe: they wanted to tell how difficult the situation was in ghana. you didn't hesitate to take a quick stand on this matter. you also invited commander massoud to parliament last spring, as if you had seen what was coming, and you stood courageously by his side. i am quite sure that you too have often put your own personal safety at risk in this way, and for this courage i thank you very much. the european parliament, which has sought to be the moral conscience of the european union, has indeed received a face during your term of office, and that face has been yours, thank you for that! you have also courageously reflected the position of the majority of this parliament in situations where it has not been so easy. i remember when we were discussing the new austrian government here: you told us what the majority of this parliament felt and you told us that we were not fully involved in this matter. i'm sure it wasn't easy for you either. but now, indeed, things are changing, new people are coming, and i want to wish you all the best for the future. perhaps indeed, as my group here has already said, you would be a brilliant face at this future convention. and it's a character like you that i would have liked to see in charge. now i'm not sure i'm happy with what we've achieved, but i wish you all the best! (applause) i would like to thank the
- mr president, it seems to me that the rest of you will now have to follow the internal debate of the ppe-de family, but that is of course perfectly permissible. i think that the belgian presidency was quite successful in difficult circumstances. externally, it was afghanistan, macedonia, the middle east and 9/11, and internally, it was the very high expectations, especially for the laeken meeting. in this light, the results of the laeken meeting were good. they are the intellectual and material proponents of the community. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the laeken declaration is a successful mixture of problems that solve problems and a belief in solving them. the convention, which was first proposed by the ppe-de as a group, is fast getting started and its presidency has at least some experience, some 200 years of experience in men. good luck, it's not going to be an easy job! however, i think the best decision was taken at the laeken meeting by prime minister verhofstadt, whose personal contribution is certainly behind belgium's success, who ended the dispute over the agencies very quickly. when the prime minister of a great country begins to imagine that he is at the european food year ceremony or handing out michelin points to a city, or when the president of another great country begins to daydream about beautiful swedish models, then it is really time to stop talking in front of the europeans, lest they laugh at us even more than they already do.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the laeken declaration on the future of the european union is a positive step towards a more citizen-centred and more open european union. but a good declaration must not be a mere line of fine words. for example, the lisbon council's conclusion that the european union should be the most competitive area in the world has been met with a surprising lack of commitment on the part of the member states. the credibility of the union depends on the consistency of its words and deeds. the union and its institutions have rightly been criticised for being too distant from citizens. in order to promote citizenship, the preparation of the future reform of the treaties must be more transparent. the european council must follow the same principles of democracy, efficiency and consistency as the other eu institutions. the expected and positive decision of the laeken european council was the creation of a preparatory committee. so, on this point, i disagree with my good friend charles tannock. the problem, however, is that three distinguished european statesmen, with a long record of life, were now appointed to head the convention. there were no women even nominated for the presidency. the experience is of course valuable, but in order to ensure citizenship, we should now consider what the age and gender balance of the other members of the convention should be, in order to bring the eu closer to the citizens and especially to the people who will shape the future, namely the young. the laeken summit was devoted to the location of the important food agency to be set up after the turn of the year. in view of the recent animal diseases which have occurred in virtually all the member states, europeans have the right to expect that the heads of state will do everything possible to ensure complete food safety. however, the council's handling of the matter was more like a farce, one that, according to the german newspaper die welt, made even all soap operas look dull. it is absolutely unacceptable that populist motives can prevent decision-making on a matter that is central to the health and well-being of our citizens.
