chairman of the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs. – madam president, the house kindly agreed on 16 november to a request from the committee which i have the honour to chair to delay the final vote on mr cashman's proposed legislative resolution. that delay was intended to allow time for the other institutions to consider our amendments and for the commission to formulate amended proposals. since our november part-session, we have had contacts with the other institutions, though as yet no agreement has been forthcoming. therefore, we would ask the house for a prorogation of the delay of a maximum of two months in order to conclude the dialogue and, we hope, present to you compromise amendments for voting at our part-session on 28 february.
madam president, on a point of order. i draw your attention to the fact that alarming events have been taking place in moscow in the past 24 hours, mainly aimed at the independent media and the freedom of the press. media-most runs the independent television of russia and its organisation has a number of radio stations and independent magazines. mr andrey tsimaylo, the deputy chairman of media-most, was yesterday arrested and subjected to five hours of interrogation, following which mr anton titov, the financial director of independent television, was arrested at the home of his mother, the door having been broken in by the security police. a number of other junior employees of independent television are being arrested and interrogated as we sit here now. this is an alarming development and it goes beyond the personal question of mr gusinsky, which i have raised before and, as is well known, i am an adviser to him. madam president, could we take this matter into consideration? you met the deputy chairman of media-most in june, mr malashenko. you spoke to him about this problem of government pressure on freedom of the press and you suggested that something should be done. can we try to find some way of conveying our views to the russian government and sorting out this question of freedom of the press and expression which bedevils relations between the russian federation and the european union? (applause)
madam president, on a point of order. i wish to draw the attention of the house to an unfortunate incident which has occurred since our last part-session, and that is the case of mr panikos tsiakourmas. many of you may be unaware that part of cyprus is already part of the european union because great britain retained sovereign bases on cyprus and mr tsiakourmas was seized from one of those bases shortly before christmas. that seizure was an illegal act. mr tsiakourmas is now being held in north cyprus. i would appeal to the house to express its sympathy with mr tsiakourmas and his family. he has been accused of a crime of which i do not think he is guilty. however, whatever the merits of his case, the circumstances of his abduction were unacceptable. he was abducted from the territory of a european union member state. i would ask the president to express our concern to the ankara government about this incident and our hope that this unfortunate incident will not affect the solution to the cyprus problem and the peace negotiations which are continuing at this moment, and to express our hope that mr tsiakourmas will be released as soon as possible.
madam president, has it been brought to your attention that the members' register of interests was last week published on an internet site, www.mpt2001.co.uk? this was not the result of parliament putting into practice the principles of transparency and openness, but follows the copying of the records by a team in parliament working for a british television comedian. now that the records have been put into the public domain, will you advise all concerned not to allow parliament to continue looking secretive and foolish, but to take speedy action to bring us into the twenty-first century and get the information published on our own website and made permanently available to european citizens?
madam president, i also regret that a british comedy programme sought to make light of parliament and would point out that my own group has, of course, already published its register of interests on the internet. it remains open to mr davies' group to follow suit and follow our lead in putting the register of interests on the internet. in the meantime, i agree with him. i think the sooner this is on the internet, the better. it is a matter of public record. there is no reason why it should be kept secret. that is the point i believe the quaestors will be urging on the bureau in the near future.
mr president, the main points of controversy in this report concern three different types of contractual agreement, namely repo agreements, netting agreements, and contracts conducted on a regulated market. as mrs peijs' report outlined, these types of contracts were discussed in committee pending this debate and, in essence, what we are seeking to do with the compromises proposed by mrs peijs is to ensure that parties can choose their own contract law in relation to these particular contracts, but not their own winding-up proceedings law. there is a separation here between the law of the contract and the external insolvency law, because it is quite important to ensure that parties, though they may choose the law of contract, may not actually choose their own insolvency law. now a problem arises concerning the interaction between the law of contract and insolvency law. what we are trying to do is to ensure that the contract operates and whatever proceeds are left at the other end are then dealt with according to the insolvency law of the home state. there is still one slight uncertainty in the text about what happens with regimes, for example, in spain which have insolvency proceedings which kick in before the contract law actually takes place. in essence, these are known as automatic stays and mean that in certain countries, such as spain, i believe all contracts are suspended automatically by an insolvency proceeding. i applaud mrs peijs' work in reconciling what looked fairly irreconcilable and coming up with a solution that favours home state control which is preferable in terms of the internal market, but i have some anxiety that there will still have to be some fine-tuning. i hope that we will not have to have a third reading, but we may have to just to make it absolutely clear that these automatic stays would not affect netting contracts, repo contracts and contracts in a regulated market. i would appeal to the house that in some ways it is more important to get a clear answer than to get one that suits everyone; one that is absolutely perfect in every respect. because with a clear answer people can arrange their transactions around the framework that we have set up. it is vital to do that. i applaud the work that mrs peijs has done and i hope that we have finally sorted this issue out. i just have certain worries about the automatic stays and suspect that we might need some fine-tuning at a later stage. the other controversial issue involves right in rem and the difference between the common position and the tidying up operation that mrs peijs has done, and this is something we have discussed at length. in essence, there is a lot of common ground between what the council proposes in the common position and the alternative wording that mrs peijs has proposed. i am inclined to think, in view of the uncertainty, that it may well be worth sticking to the common position on that particular issue, because of the potential threat that it might pose to the mortgage bond market. this is not a strategic interest to me as a british mep, because it does not affect the british market in any way – it is much more important for the danish, the austrian and the german mortgage market. i would congratulate mrs peijs on her work. it is a very good report. there are still one or two small points of controversy in it, but she has done an excellent job. i apologise for the confusion we have had in committee over the voting and i am glad that it has all been resolved now.
mr president, i do not feel that i will need the full five minutes, hopefully this will allow you to speed up proceedings tonight. i would firstly like to congratulate mrs peijs as rapporteur on this report which, as mrs villiers has already outlined, has been extremely complicated. the issue has long been problematic, mainly because of the national differences at governmental level, rather than the issues directly originating from parliament, but compromises produced in parliament have been both efficient and expedient in terms of their approach and are very welcome. in an effort to provide for equal treatment across the eu, the principles of unity and universality are the central pillars, of course, of this report, and coherence and consistency are therefore attained. similarly the rights of creditors in member states other than their own are safeguarded by the assurances of cooperation between the relevant authorities in the member states, but let us be clear, in case some of you have not read the document, this is not about harmonisation, it is about mutual recognition of member states' reorganisation measures and winding up procedures. parliament's success in introducing substantial changes in the original proposal is important. there are many in parliament who feel the issues here are of real concern since they all concern the safeguarding of european citizens' interests and rights; indeed this report helps clarify many of the elements, such as the deposit guarantee scheme. but, of course, many of the changes in the common position which finally came back to us have to be welcomed, as they reflect many of parliament's concerns, although some work has still to be done. it is therefore sensible for parliament, whilst accepting the improved document's intentions, to reimpose our priorities from the first readings but to organise and also clarify the suggestions emanating from this text. amendments nos 1 and 2 bring the text into line with the insolvency regulation and the insurance winding-up proposals which had already been agreed last summer: this confirms parliament's desire, therefore, to see a degree of coherence in this matter. i also see great strength for creditors in amendments nos 3, 5 and 6 while recognising that other national delegations, especially in my group, may have other concerns in this area. but i personally offer my support to the idea of bringing this directive in line with the insolvency regulation and the insurance winding-up proposals. it seems to me that, finally, in the remaining amendments, following in the tradition of tidying up texts for the purpose of clarification, parliament's rapporteur has maintained the type of quality we have come to expect from experienced members. whilst issues such as netting seem to have been slotted in as an extra series of amendments, what we have here is a workable document nonetheless, capable of securing support in the house and provoking serious discussion within the council.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the directive on the reorganization and winding-up of credit institutions. the aim of this directive is to provide certainty as to the rules governing institutions, assets, rights and business relationships in an organic and sector-specific manner in the event of the failure or bankruptcy of a bank operating in several member states of the union. this directive is one of the priorities of the financial services action plan. in its common position, adopted by a qualified majority, the council demonstrates a keen and keen understanding of the specific characteristics of the banking sector which contribute to its special position, both in relation to insolvency proceedings in general and in comparison with other financial sectors such as insurance and securities. for this reason, article 20 of the common position provides for special treatment of the banking sector in certain respects. such special treatment does not in any way affect the harmony and logic of a regulatory framework for financial services as a whole. on the contrary, it is in keeping with the specific characteristics of the banking system, which better guarantees the stability and legal certainty of transactions. the report by mrs peijs, which i would like to congratulate her on behalf of the commission and in this respect i would like to join the compliments made by mrs villiers and mr skinner to mrs peijs, which are largely favourable to the common position, proposes a number of amendments to article 20, as has been suggested earlier this afternoon. the commission can accept all but one of these amendments. the commission objects, at least in principle, to amendment no 1 on retrocession agreements. it is essential that banks know in advance which right will apply to retrospective agreements. now mrs peijs has tabled five new amendments on behalf of the ppe group. these amendments integrate the amendments adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs into a coherent whole which respects the special position of the banking sector. the new amendments take account, in a different form, of the specific requirements imposed in the banking sector with regard to clearing agreements, retrocession agreements and transactions on regulated markets. the commission can agree with the spirit of these amendments as expressed in their reasons. if the five new amendments are accepted by this parliament, the commission can agree with the spirit of all the amendments proposed in mrs peijs' report, including amendment no 1. but the wording of all the amendments, and i say this in particular in response to comments made by mrs villiers, the wording of all the other amendments still needs to be adjusted to ensure their compatibility and consistency with article 20.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report by mr doorn, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on a review of slim: simplifying legislation on the internal market.
mr president, it is clear that improving the quality of legislation is essential to the effective functioning of the internal market and to increasing the competitivity of the european economy. so we all welcome the slim initiative, but we must all share the rapporteur's reservations about how it has worked so far. there are surprisingly few areas which have been subject to the slim process and it is not always clear why those particular areas have been selected. we need, without a doubt, a fast-track procedure to turn slim opinions into legislative proposals, because it all seems to take rather a long time. so we welcome the proposal to set up a special group within the advisory committee and we welcome the rapporteur's suggestion that it should have more resources. clearly we also need greater synergy between the different commission initiatives for improving legislation. we sometimes think that the different parts are operating in isolation. and, of course, we need greater cooperation between member states and to overview best practice and seek to repeat best practice elsewhere. and finally, it is crucial to ensure maximum involvement of the users of this legislation, particularly businesses, because they know best how this legislation affects them. however, having said that, you could quite conceivably produce wonderful, simple legislation, yet it could be completely destroyed by the way that member states implement it and enforce it. we must understand that there are three stages of legislation – formulation, implementation, including transposition, and enforcement – and we have to see the process as a whole. we often find the greatest problem is not the original legislation but how it has been transposed by member states and the speed at which they have transposed it, how they have implemented it and how they have enforced it. i am often quite surprised by how relatively simple ideas are turned into the most complex nightmares as we go through that process. as part of this on-going determination by the commission to simplify legislation, i would like to see much greater cooperation between member states and the commission about the whole life of legislation and, particularly, involvement with the people who have prime responsibility for enforcing the legislation, who are often local and regional actors. so we must consider the whole process when we draft the original legislation. in some ways, you could argue, we should start at the end and look at how we enforce it and then work backwards as a way of getting simpler legislation. but the slim process ought to go much further. we need a rolling programme which will cover all legislation and look at simplifying, consolidating, re-casting, sometimes repealing legislation. sometimes we may need to go for the status quo, but we need a more dynamic process than we have had so far.
mr president, i wish to begin by saying that although i have been allocated four minutes, i should like to do my bit for the simplification and streamlining of bureaucracy by speaking for less than half that time. i congratulate the rapporteur on highlighting such a very important issue and also highlighting the failures of the commission to get to grips with it thus far. i hope that the commissioner will say what more is to be done to give added urgency to what is such a very important programme. however, rather than criticise the commission more than the rapporteur has already done, rather even than refer just to the four committees involved in this particular issue, i should like to highlight one issue the rapporteur also raised, which is that it is really entirely up to us, as members of this house, to ensure that legislation is better in the first place. he wondered to what extent legislation should delve into details and gave an example involving people holding ladders. that particular subject came up in the committee on employment and social affairs. it must be said that this particular committee has contributed very significantly to the extra bureaucracy that we are now passing the buck to the commission to try and reduce. how much better it would be if that committee, and indeed all other committees, had left such legislation alone in its simpler and purer form in the first place. my final suggestion is that for us the acronym slim – "simpler legislation for the internal market" – should represent "substantially less interference by members".
mr president, i wish to congratulate the rapporteur on his report and say that the proposals on the simplification of legislation in the internal market that were launched in 1996 are very welcome. an attempt was made there to improve the quality of legislation, to try to cut down on superfluous legislation and to limit the costs associated with implementing legislation. now that we have finished the third and fourth phases, with teams of member state officials and users identifying concrete suggestions to simplify legislation, it is right that we have a review. we need to have clearer definitions of what is going on. improved selection at the moment seems to be fairly random and we need some clear guidelines for the operation of the management teams and, of course, the implementation of recommendations which, at the moment, are too little and too late. many of the recommendations are not implemented at all and many have to wait considerable periods of time. so we are in favour, but there are two things we want to add. firstly, we have to ensure that political control remains with the commission and parliament. recent press reports on the new approach to legislation dating from the 1980s and '90s – not so new now – which allowed the detail of legislation to be worked out by industry-led standardisation organisations, seem to indicate that this is not always the best way forward. the european committee for standardisation, for example, recently did work on the packaging of waste directive, which the press has described as "fundamentally flawed, undermines democratic accountability and fails to meet the demands of the directive or, for that matter, environmental protection". so we need to ensure that there is political control there, unless of course there are strong political or consumer pressures to ensure that industry makes progress. however, we would also wish to go further in a different direction. slim seems to have become fundamentally about simplification, even though in the original proposals we talked about limiting costs. what we would like to see are proposals for dealing with economy of legislation as well as simplicity. we therefore welcome the proposals from lisbon for better regulation, which will look at the costs of legislation; we welcome the informal meeting of ministers of public administration held in strasbourg on 7 november; we welcome the establishment of the high-level group to look at recommendations on making legislation more cost-effective; but we are disappointed that the promised european parliament representative on that high-level group has not been appointed by parliament nor, as far as i understand, have we been approached to appoint such a representative. we welcome the fact that commissioners bolkestein and liikanen are looking at various pilot projects in this area. however, the commission and parliament will have to begin to act on their own rules in looking at the financial implications of legislative proposals in order for them to be taken into account. it can only devalue our work in the european parliament if claims can be made, for example, that the end-of-vehicle-life directive will cost us £400m a year in terms of the cost to the producers and the consumers but will only deliver £100m a year of benefit to the environment. while such claims can be made, obviously we in this parliament will look rather ludicrous.
commission. - (fr) mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr doorn, on this extremely constructive and balanced report. the report rightly underlines the need to strengthen our joint efforts to improve the quality of new and existing community legislation. i therefore welcome the support it has given to the slim initiative, as well as the support of this parliament. our review of the slim initiative and this report have shown where and how the initiative can be improved. we therefore look forward to making and implementing important recommendations on this subject in cooperation with the representatives of the member states in the newly constituted advisory committee on the internal market. with a view to the fifth and subsequent phases of slim, we are currently examining suggestions for areas for review. any suggestion on the subject of this parliament is of course welcome. once agreement has been reached on the final list of sectors to be reviewed, we will be in contact at each stage with representatives of industry and business, consumer organisations and trade unions, all of whom are known as 'users'. this should enable them to contribute directly or indirectly to the slim initiative and to be informed of progress. i am confident that this approach will allow all participants in this review exercise to focus on the main issues of simplification and that the slim teams will make relevant and practical recommendations. i therefore look forward to reporting on the progress made in the coming months. as you know, the commission is obliged to submit proposals to the best of its ability within six months of receiving the slim team's recommendations, recommendations which it can at least endorse. we will do our utmost to honour this commitment, and i say this in particular to mr bushill-matthews. we very much welcome mr doorn's recommendation that parliament and the council each take their responsibility to make the slim initiative as efficient as possible by carefully considering all the relevant proposals. i support the position of mr doorn, who would like to see more legislative areas simplified. i agree with that. i'd like that, too. this can of course only be done within the limits imposed on us by other priority tasks and taking account of the budgetary space available. i would like to emphasize this last point. the commission receives many requests. the commission has many tasks, but the commission does not always have the resources available to carry them out quickly and efficiently. that is an important matter which deserves a great deal of attention in this parliament. i am, however, fully confident that we can speed up the simplification process, not least because of the work that the commission itself is involved in. in response to the call for a coordinated policy to simplify the regulatory environment launched at the lisbon european council, the commission is currently undertaking a thorough review of its position on regulation in general in the broadest sense of the word. it shall examine where non-regulatory alternatives can be introduced. it also urges the development of better ways of measuring the impact of new proposed legislation on business and industry, in order to minimise possible additional costs and administrative burdens. that was also asked this afternoon. the efforts now being made to achieve better regulation are in line with the preparations for the white paper on better governance. i say this in particular to mrs kauppi. the commission's work will be complemented by the results of the discussions in a high-level working group on better regulation convened here by public service ministers following their meeting in strasbourg last november. this working party, as mr ford has also called attention to, is concerned with the quality and simplification of both national and community legislation. i look forward to the report and recommendations of that working party. this regulatory process, for which we all have a responsibility, is of course of concern to all of us. i am convinced that the current political consensus in favour of a better regulatory environment within the european union will lead to real and lasting improvements. i should also like to thank mr bushill-matthews for his alternative meaning of the letters s, l, i, m, namely substantially less interference by members. i am very grateful to him for that. i shall try to put that forward in the appropriate place and time so that those concerned can also draw the best conclusions from it. i would also say to mr doorn and to your parliament, mr president, that the commission accepts the amendments.
- thank you very much, commissioner bolkestein, as usual, for your valuable comments on this debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0375/2000) by mrs sanders-ten holte, on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a recommendation from the european parliament and the council on european cooperation in the field of quality assessment in school education (11540/1/2000 - c5-0565/2000 - 2000/0022cod)).
mr president, this report is strongly supported by the ppe-de group. indeed, we have supported it throughout the entire procedure. we regretted that initially there was some slight resistance from the council but we are very pleased that, as a result of strong intervention by the commissioner and the negotiating skills of the rapporteur, a compromise was reached last autumn that we can certainly support. we congratulate the commissioner and the rapporteur on their work to achieve that. we certainly all agree here in this chamber that education is of vital importance and that an educated workforce is the cornerstone of europe's future prosperity. therefore, any attempts to improve standards in our schools must be welcomed with open arms. we also all agree that education is rightly a matter for the individual member states and the regions. but there is room for the commission to coordinate and improve evaluation systems as provided for in the treaty and i was glad to see that the commission was careful to emphasise that this is to be based on voluntary cooperation between the member states. certainly, at the moment it is difficult to get past each country's various examination systems and teaching philosophies to reach any objective comparison of the teaching standards of the countries. as a former lecturer myself, i would have welcomed a clear idea of how british teaching and educational standards compared to those of other european countries. it is important in this global age to have as broad an input as possible for the evaluation system. european comparisons will show up, one hopes, strengths but also weaknesses that are currently hidden by evaluation systems limited to a single educational system. one of the main aims of education is to provide for the world of work as well as providing a cultural base for europe's young people. this report seeks a balance between the need for adequate preparation in both those fields. the possibility of comparing education systems across borders will, i hope, lead to improvements across european teaching establishments as schools learn from others outside their immediate view. the point made by mrs sanders-ten holte about social exclusion is particularly valid. i would like to see whether there are differences in the pattern of the school day, whether this varies in different parts of europe, and whether this offers ways of improving education. then there is the use of compulsory sports activities: does this help in the educational system of different countries? do different countries have different patterns? we would all be interested to know how the educational systems achieve competence in two modern languages in addition to the mother tongue. i suspect my own country will not do so well there but perhaps we would do better on the use of information technology. finally, i would just like to say that the rapporteur's amendments calling for greater self-evaluation and participation of stakeholders inserts a valuable cog in the evaluation machine. the opinion of those within the educational system is often lost within the large civil service machines and bureaucracies which run schools. we must find ways which give power back to the schools and to the parents and to the students because that is where responsibility should lie.
mr president, i, too, would like to congratulate those who have been responsible for getting the report to this stage. quality, as we have been hearing, can be a problematic concept in education, especially when one looks at any form of assessment. there are certain areas, such as literacy and numeracy, where we can now gain some idea of what has been achieved. there are many international studies which have thrown up difficulties, however, when it comes to making straight comparisons, because of differences in curriculum, approach and the underlying assumptions about what constitutes a good education. it is essential not to confuse education with training. the primary purpose of education is not to prepare people for the job market but to prepare them for a life which is fulfilling in every way. in an increasingly flexible or precarious working environment people will be thrown back on their inner resources at many times in their lives and social cohesion is partly dependent on such personal resilience. we only have to look at what happens to those who are thrown out of work or who are excluded from the job market. so when we are assessing the quality of education, we want to see if we can develop people who have self-esteem and confidence, who can communicate effectively, who can look behind the information for the hidden message, who can question, who can work as part of a team and independently, and who are creative, resourceful and have an appreciation of the wider world and their responsibility to it. i also think that when we are looking at the quality of education we need to see if it is delivering real equality of opportunity for all of those within the system or whether it is doing, as society does, so much to exclude people on grounds of a poor background or their colour or whatever. so in our comparisons and benchmarking we have to look beyond narrow league table approaches. after all, every football team in a league depends upon the level of investment and the selection of the very best. it does not necessarily improve the performance of all. i am glad to see that we are recognising the importance of involving pupils themselves in the development and assessment of our educational system. we cannot expect to develop fully rounded and responsible individuals if they are not encouraged to be constructive and articulate about this major component of their lives. after all, education properly done is a collaborative adventure and we know we have a lot to learn from each other. that is why i welcome this report.
mr president, i welcome this document and fully support the european parliament and council decision to promote cooperation and quality evaluation in school education. i particularly welcome the emphasis on social inclusion. education is an important, indeed crucial, part of society. our education has an impact on all our lives and our communities as well. recent reports, as those of us from the uk are aware, have tended to criticise the teaching of children at a very young age as this could prove damaging. it would therefore be good to compare and contrast with other european models, within limits of course, as my colleague mrs lambert has already stressed. spain, for example, attaches great importance to social inclusion and developing personalities, working in teams; integrating. these are placed higher on the agenda than academia and at an early age. i also fully agree with better integration between parents, pupils and teachers and the many community players who rightly want to play a role in education and its development and achieve, as a result, the idea of the school as the community. it will also provide an excellent opportunity to encourage schools in the different regions to share in good practices. partnerships between different countries are so important, as indeed are partnerships not only between countries but between rural and urban links. this is part of a very important twinning concept and philosophy that is well established in europe and is proving such a success throughout all our communities. networking is so important. i stress that the sharing of good practices and the sharing of information between the different schools in europe should not develop into a competitive practice. we should at all costs discourage any attempt to create european league table of schools similar to that in the uk that has proved so detrimental. i welcome the report, it is a positive paper and one that we can build on to create better educational networks within the european union.
commission - mr president, the protection of cultural and natural heritage is, in my view, apart from the question of who is responsible for what under the treaty, an important matter for everyone. because - and let me say this before i get into the heart of the matter - for me, heritage, which consists - and i agree with you - of buildings, natural sites, traditions, cannot be limited to one person, one region, one country, because it belongs to the whole community of european citizens. if we have a wealth in europe, it is cultural diversity, and it belongs to us all. it does not belong to one small part of europe, even though it comes from that small part of europe. so we all have a responsibility to protect this heritage, to protect this diversity. because if something is lost in finland, it is lost for greece, and if something is lost in greece, it is lost for denmark. the responsibility lies with all european citizens, wherever they are and whatever role they have to play. that said, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that while the commission welcomes the efforts made by parliament and especially by its rapporteur, mrs de veyrac, it shares the concerns and interests which this document emphasizes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. not only is the commission unable to draw up its own list of cultural and natural heritage properties and sites, but it is reluctant to consider further enlargement of the existing lists. to return to my introduction, this does not limit our responsibility in preserving heritage. and besides, we have always collaborated with international organizations, private associations, individuals, states, regions, villages that have made so much effort to preserve their heritage, our heritage. we can highlight in particular the joint actions carried out with the council of europe and unesco, such as the 'europe, a common heritage' campaign or the study carried out in favour of the heritage of kosovo; this cooperation must be continued, not only to avoid the repetition of similar and uncoordinated actions, but also to improve the effectiveness of the international legal and tax framework which was mentioned by some of the speakers. i would also like to stress that, in the framework of our raphael and culture 2000 programmes, we are working very hard to help citizens, regions, states, associations, without distinction, all those who are struggling on the ground to preserve the common heritage of all european citizens. among the types of actions that have been constantly encouraged is the awareness and participation of the public, and especially of young people, because you are right to say that it is a matter of education to respect heritage, but also nature. there is also the improvement of the methods and tools used by professionals in europe, in particular those developed by the international institute for the preservation of cultural heritage in rome, and the training of professionals and craftsmen specialised in the field of heritage restoration, which we have tried to develop through our education programmes, precisely so that we can have specialists who can help the various restoration projects under way. and i can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that we will continue along this path. this will of course be done within the limits of our competence and resources, which are very limited, as you know; but we intend to provide constructive and appropriate responses. that is why i personally and on behalf of the commission thank parliament for its initiative, because we want more initiatives to be taken throughout europe, at all levels, whether private or public, provided they serve the purpose of preserving our european heritage. it is in this sense that i strongly support the publicity we give to heritage aid by creating awards, such as the restoration prize created by europa nostra, or the european heritage days prize. what are these prizes for? they must set an example and show all citizens what can be done, sometimes with minimal resources, to preserve for future generations the heritage of each individual, whether it belongs to him directly or indirectly, that is to say the heritage of all europeans, while respecting cultural diversity.
mr president, i wish to thank mrs van der laan for giving the committee on budgetary control and the european parliament a model on which to base future discharge reports. from the outset she was very clear that she wanted to concentrate on a few areas where we wanted to see real improvement. they were clearly set out last year. now we have a follow-up to check that those points have been implemented. we shall be following her lead in not supporting the amendments tabled because we want to keep to that clear-cut approach. on the whole, the commission has responded positively, and this now has to be set within the context of the more general commission reform. we are pleased that the commission will present annual activity reports for each directorate-general but, for that to work effectively, we need to know the targets for these dgs very soon. work on staff policy has also gone ahead but things seem to be moving very slowly. we appreciate the sensitivity of negotiations on staff issues but we and the european public will soon lose patience if the talking does not stop soon and the action start. the cap and structural funds are the areas where most mismanagement problems lie in the eu, partly due to the scale of the finance received by these areas. that is why it is critical that we, as the controlling and accountable body, have access to information on the financial management of these two areas. we look forward to receiving regular reports from the personal representatives group. external aid, however, is an area where we still see substantial problems. the rapporteur has referred clearly to the disastrous way the aid to palestine was handled, which gives a very poor signal at a time when the utmost political delicacy and sensitivity were needed in that region. another court of auditors' report on external aid has come out very recently and we shall be looking at that in the future. once again, i thank the rapporteur and congratulate her on a job well done.
mr president, i would like to start by giving my thanks to the court of auditors for its very useful report this time on a range of issues. we were very critical of it at the time of the annual report but i think these special reports are very valuable. there are clearly a range of areas where the commission has yet to act to improve matters. today, i am going to concentrate on a response to the report written by mr dell'alba on various aspects of the structural funds. certainly, in my country, this is one of the areas where the european union can visibly claim to be making a difference, and there is a recognition that structural funds and the attempt to increase wealth, and improve social conditions and employment rates in an area give a positive image of the eu. but we cannot stand by and uncritically applaud. the reports by the court of auditors clearly show that there is room for radical improvement, and the commission has already introduced a new structural fund regulation to improve the situation and will obviously be checking very carefully to see whether these reforms have gone far enough. in the case of additionality, we must remember that european funds are intended not to finance but to cofinance operations and must not take the place of public expenditure by national authorities. that is all very well, but even the new regulations only allow for assessment of additionality at a national level and not at a regional level. rules are rules, but if there is no effective punishment after breaking them, they become weaker and unenforceable, so we need to see a solid legal basis to develop the possible imposition of sanctions. on the issue of the development of industrial sites, the commission should not wring its hands but say that this should only be seen as part of a wider policy to assist smes. substantial sums go into these developments. in wales, for example, we know that this is a clear target; we need clear targets and objectives and we will be looking forward to seeing those within the structural fund programmes in future.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur for the specific references in his report to two major fundings in northern ireland relating to our peace process and for his positive response to the international fund for ireland, which is funded not just by europe but also by the united states, canada and australia. i would advise other regions with serious problems of unemployment to study the work of the international fund in northern ireland and the border counties. it has done such outstanding work. for example, it has funded some 4 600 projects, creating 38 000 jobs, and almost 90% of these jobs are in areas of high unemployment and in deprived areas. some 9 000 people from cross-community groups have been involved in these projects for creating jobs in northern ireland and some 5 000 people have been involved in the cross-border projects. it has done an outstanding job and i welcome the positive response in the report to it. there is also the special peace programme from the european union itself. at grass-roots level in northern ireland it too is bringing together people from both sections of our community, in particular with projects for young people – young men and women. there are shared-city initiatives to promote community; there is development and training for unemployed women – i am just singling out some of the very successful operations that are going on – the development of the food industry and, of course, the new housing development. we very much welcome and deeply thank the commission for this, and the council of ministers for the special peace programme for northern ireland. i should like to express my deep gratitude to all my colleagues in this parliament for their unanimous support for this peace project because it is making such a very positive contribution to the development of peace in my country.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. i would first like to thank mr garriga, mr mccartin, mr staes and mr dell'alba for the reports on the 10 court of auditors reports covering the period 1999/2000. i think that the debate has shown how valuable the court's special reports are because they deal with specific problems in great detail. as a commissioner, i can only welcome these special reports in detail, because they make it possible to respond promptly to criticism, and the court of auditors also places its special reports in such a good position that they can be incorporated immediately into new commission proposals. i must of course be brief and can only deal in part and on a few points with the very detailed and valuable reports of parliament, starting with mr garriga's report and your remarks on own resources, mr pomés ruiz. the european union's budget is financed by 14 billion euro of customs duties each year, and a large part of this sum is in the form of guarantees and guarantees. the commission has made efforts in recent years to improve substantially the legislation in this area. i would like to mention that in 1999 and 2000 new legislation on the transit procedure in the customs field came into force. they allow better monitoring of transit operations and the handling of the collateral provided to secure those operations. the community customs code has just been amended and the amendment has entered into force. last year seven member states joined the new computerised transit system. this was an area in which parliament, through its committee of inquiry, has initiated a great deal, which has produced very concrete results, which the commission is now working on. it is also important, above all, that the enlargement countries are now directly involved in this computer system, in this new procedure. as regards the consequences of irregularities in customs procedures and the question of whether interest is payable, two infringement procedures are pending against germany and similar procedures are being considered against austria, belgium and denmark. the commission will also - i should like to point out - present its report on the own resources system for the period 1997-99 in the coming days. the commission's overall intention is to give member states greater responsibility in the customs field. i believe that in future, in the case of administrative errors which lead to a loss of revenue, a different system should be applied to the one now in force, namely that these member states should also be liable for the loss of revenue in the event of errors. it is simply a bad system that the last pillar of the eu budget financing has to come in, namely that all member states have to pay according to their share of the gross national product. in other words, the system is currently as follows: those who manage sloppyly are rewarded, those who make special efforts are actually the stupid ones. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. at the moment there is no approach, but the commission will continue to insist on it. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i am grateful for these reports. they cover the milk powder, butterfat, cereals and swine fever sectors. i would like to make a few brief comments on this and, mrs rühle, i can only agree with you that this report once again shows how much urgent reform is needed. we have a surplus in the whole milk sector and this creates many other problems, particularly in the area of financial control, because this surplus creates specific promotion measures for skimmed milk powder and butterfat, which repeatedly cause very serious problems in financial control or, in other words, give rise to fraud. the criticisms expressed in the special report led the commission to make improvements and simplifications in four areas of the skimmed milk. the definition of eligible skimmed milk powder was clarified, the control procedures were reviewed, in particular with regard to the detection of whey in skimmed milk powder, and the aid for liquid skimmed milk for animal feed was abolished on the basis of cost-benefit considerations, something that also attracted a lot of criticism. the court of auditors' criticism in this area was so vehement that it was necessary to draw the necessary conclusions. as regards butterfat - which is also a consequence of the overproduction we have in this sector - i can confirm that the concentration of aid payments on only a few member states will be reviewed in the forthcoming evaluation of the milk sector. this concentration is not unusual, but we nevertheless take up your comments here as well. the court's findings on the control deficiencies are currently taken into account in the clearance of accounts procedure. in the third special report on the impact of the cereals sector, the court of auditors assessed the reform measures introduced in 1992. they served as a basis for the commission's own assessment. the resolution calls for the phasing out of direct payments, which is being proposed by parliament and by you, mr mccartin, in order to achieve a more balanced distribution of income between rich and less prosperous regions, and between large and small farms. this is possible to a certain extent, but not all member states are using it, and improvements are needed here too. the report also deals with the important subject of cofinancing of direct aids. we know what has become of this concern in agenda 2000. the commission considers, however, that this issue must be discussed again in the context of the midterm review. the commission also considers that, following the recent outbreak of swine fever, there is an urgent need to revise the relevant legislation. it has therefore put forward proposals to this effect and has also restructured the commission's veterinary service as a consequence. it agrees with you, mr mccartin, that producers should bear a greater share of the financial responsibility for the control of animal diseases. the commission will be carrying out a study on risk management instruments in agriculture in this context, and this study will be available in the first months of this year and will certainly be discussed intensively in this house. mr staes, i now come to your report, for which the commission thanks you very much. in the period 1996 to 1998, to which the court's special report refers, the commission acted - and you have acknowledged this - in very difficult political circumstances on the ground. they mention the particular circumstances, in particular, of the financing of the open broadcasting network. it was necessary to have very high quality equipment and to ensure that the information was also of a very high quality in order to prepare for the 1996 elections and to have independent reporting. the commission must admit, however, that in some areas there has been too much criticism and that it has drawn the right conclusions. the relationship between the eu as donor and the office of the high representative and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe as recipient of funds. this relationship is not easy. the commission is being reprimanded for some administrative failings which are actually addressed to the international organizations. it's not about denying responsibility. it just shows that sometimes there are difficulties in cooperation, partly due to structural reasons. the court of auditors now proposes, as in the 1999 annual report, not to grant project financing to international organisations but to grant budgetary grants. but how can the commission support international organizations with a purely political mandate when these organizations have difficulty in properly implementing the administrative and financial standards of community aid? further discussions and arrangements are necessary. the report also mentions the issue of the return of refugees and the construction of housing in bosnia-herzegovina, which is also a subject of the report. the commission has now been able to achieve similar successes in resettlement as other donors with the help of projects funded by the phare and obnova programmes. the situation of poor return of refugees, which was criticised in the 1999 annual report, has improved since the submission of the court's report. i would also like to point out once again that the commission has drawn conclusions from some of the mistakes made in bosnia-herzegovina in the allocation of eu aid and has put the management of eu aid, for example in kosovo, on a completely different footing. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. i have to confine myself to a few remarks. the june 1999 structural funds regulation now contains new provisions on the criterion of additionality of measures, which will hopefully help to eliminate the criticism made by the court of auditors during the last funding period and to clarify the criteria. on the court of auditors' report on industrial regions: one of the key points of the 1999 reform of the structural funds is the strengthening of monitoring and evaluation instruments, which will then be able to better demonstrate where the money is going. the regulations now provide for a clearer division of responsibilities between the commission and the member states. i would like to conclude by briefly referring to the report on the peace programme. parliament expressed its deep concern at the often slow implementation of the peace programme in northern ireland and called for a transparent budget. the promotion of the consolidation of the peace process in northern ireland and the support, in particular, for crossborder cooperation through the local initiatives to which mr hume referred once again was not only an innovative objective but in my view the right programme and i am pleased to note once again that it is supported by parliament. this programme too was launched under very difficult conditions. however, as the court of auditors' report shows, it was ultimately able to help support the peace and reconciliation process in northern ireland. i think that was his purpose, and in that respect i am very glad that a positive verdict has finally been reached here.
- the next item is the report (a5-0395/2000) by mr heaton-harris, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the report of the court of auditors on the efficiency of the management of the european monetary institute and the european central bank for the financial year 1998, together with the replies from the european central bank (c5-0319/2000 - 2000/2163 (cos)).
rapporteur. – mr president, i would firstly like to acknowledge the work that the court of auditors did in producing the report that my report is based on which contained lots of detailed work. i would also like to thank the services of our committee which helped me a very great deal and indeed the ecb itself which kindly entertained me in frankfurt for a day and told me where my report was going wrong. there is a tiny bit of history behind this report. on 31 may 1998 the european monetary institute changed to the european central bank. the president was still the same person and 402 of the 407 staff that were working in the emi changed also to the ecb. the ecb took on all the assets and liabilities of the emi. the court of auditors' report identified a number of problem areas which i will come to shortly. the european central bank replied to the report, but its replies were certainly short, i would say ‘terse’, and the court of auditors found them quite inadequate since they did not give any indications of actions that the ecb intended to take to remedy the shortcomings exposed by the court of auditors' report. there were two main areas where the court of auditors identified problems. there are equally two areas in which parliament, and in particular the committee on budgetary control, took a great interest. the committee was obviously interested in the bank's relationship with olaf, and this is summarised in my report's conclusion 4 which, if will allow me, i will read. this states: "welcomes the public commitment of the european central bank, in its annual report for 1999, to establish a cooperative relationship with the european anti-fraud office olaf but regrets clear incompatibility between the public commitment assumed by the ecb in its 1999 annual report to establish close cooperation with olaf and the decision by the ecb itself to prevent olaf from carrying over internal investigations, pending the ruling by the european court of justice." that is a court case that is ongoing. the other part that the committee was very interested in was the contradictory procedure. it took ages in this particular case, and when i asked both institutions why, they both said that they had replied in the time that they were given and quite within the guidelines. so, i can only blame the postal services of frankfurt and luxembourg, and i guess they need greater liberalisation. however, i am sure these problems will not occur in future. the main areas specified as problems in the court of auditors' report concerned the ecb's project management and monitoring. the court of auditors' report noted a lack of any commitments accounting system which had caused great concern; that it was difficult to track project development simply and coherently; and that the ecb had engaged a company of consultants to run some foreign currency reserve subledger projects in july 1998, but by the end of the year the ecb had still not designated a full-time manager for this project, although that was essential for the monitoring of the consultants' work. it also pointed to a number of it problems. the other point was extraordinary bonuses. i still find it extraordinary that the bank whose primary objective is price stability saw its way to paying some staff the equivalent of a 38% bonus. the excuse is that they had worked a lot in the past – worked a lot of overtime – put a lot of work in – and that some of these staff were being paid only 9% over a period of years and this was almost like catch-up pay. but that is just shoddy management and really should not occur in a bank like this. as to my tactics, i was not really sure what i should do. as someone who is not a great fan of the european single currency and certainly not his country's entry into it, i had a dilemma with this report. whilst i would like to demand that the ecb take note of what the court of auditors has said, i could have used this report to attack the ecb and got great headlines for myself back home, but that was not the role of the rapporteur. so i went to the ecb and asked for a meeting. they kindly took me to frankfurt, and i was told that they had changed their bonus policy, that they had understood the problems in project management, and so my report is, if not actually nice, then enhanced by this meeting with the ecb. at my meeting with the ecb, i was told that it had solved its problems especially relating to the bonus and this would not happen again and it would send a letter to the committee detailing its current bonus policy. as it transpires, this letter has never turned up, and that is a great shame because the european central bank should not really fear criticism from this institution. we are simply doing our job. when problems occur, and they always will, it should not be the job of the ecb to paper over the cracks and pull down the shutters. it should deal with the problems and tell the eu and its public how it has dealt with them and not have a panic attack over how it communicates these things. as my speech has suggested, the report could easily have been a lot stronger, and the ecb has got off fairly lightly this year. if similar or more problems occur next year, they might find such a report a bit tougher, unless they choose to actually open up, have a dialogue with our committee, become more transparent and talk to all of us in this parliament. (applause)
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0335/2000) by mr bushill-matthews, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the report from the commission to the european parliament and the council: initiative for growth and employment - measures to provide financial assistance to innovative and job-creating small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) - situation as at 31 december 1999 (com (2000) 266 - c5-0507/2000 - 2000/2245 (cos)).
rapporteur. – mr president, i wish to begin by just reminding the house of a few statistics. there are at least 16 million businesses within the eu, 99.9% of them are micro to medium-sized. there are 100 million people working in the eu in the private sector and, of these, 32 million people work in micro-businesses, which is businesses of less than 10 people; 33 million people work in small to medium enterprises, with less than 249 people. so a total of 65 million workers in the eu are in the small and medium sector, which shows that it is very important for us to be discussing the growth of such a sector. in particular, it is absolutely right that this specific initiative – growth and employment – should be discussed within the committee on employment and social affairs, although it is clearly also of interest to other committees. this particular report is concerned with funding programmes, which was an important initiative from this parliament a few years ago. but it is worth saying straight away, as confirmed at the lisbon summit, that the issue of the development of smes is not just a matter of funding. it is also very important that all of us secure the right climate for enterprise, with less red tape and less bureaucracy, to encourage smes and risk-takers to actually consider taking out risk capital in the first place. 1999 was the first full year of this particular set of initiatives and, therefore, as a start-up phase it should have been relatively straightforward to report upon this without being too controversial. however, there are some controversial elements in the report, essentially because of the commission timetable in issuing its report. i have annexed the detailed timetable to the report. it shows that whereas the initial draft proposal from the commission came out in november/december 1999, it literally took a full five months before the report came before parliament. then there was a further delay within parliament, because we are not perfect in that respect either. it took over a month to allocate it to a rapporteur and then, because of the summer recess, it was not possible to programme the internal debate and discussion until october and november. despite this long delay, there was further incompetence, dare i say, within the secretariat because the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy under mrs flesch as the rapporteur had produced some very useful amendments to the report which only came to the committee on employment after we had voted on the report. so that again was not exactly impressive. i have agreed with mrs flesch that amendments from the committee today have my full support to go through unchallenged, as there are a number of useful contributions there. i should add that i asked the commission back in august about a particular comment in the report, which stated that in august there would be some feedback from smes about their response to the project. however, the commission did not reply. i asked again in october where this information was and it finally replied: "what information are you waiting for? we do not understand!" it was literally only yesterday that i received an e-mail from the commission stating that there was such information but it had been sent to the committee on budgets rather than to our committee – again, not too impressive. yesterday, i spoke in the debate on the doorn report on slim concerning bureaucracy. i should like to reinforce those comments now, because the fact that this report had to go through so many different directorates before it emerged – including legal, budgets, financial control, general secretariat, regional, innovation, employment and social affairs, research, internal market and competition – is not an impressive way of dealing with an important subject. i speak not only on behalf of this report but also, i am sure, of other reports that need to go through the same system. this is just too much micromanagement. there are too many managers involved and, as a result, the project ends up not being fully managed. finally, i have made a few comments about the european investment bank taking a controlling interest in the eif. this may be absolutely right given its expertise, but we want to ensure that these particular projects are given the priority they deserve. i am not particularly confident but we shall watch to see how that goes. i have also called for a full audit, not because of any doubt about the financial probity, but just as a basic management control system. in conclusion, may i say that the commission has apparently already written the draft report for the year 2000. i should like to ask that we see it now so that we can make a positive contribution now in good time, rather than repeat the timing of the current report. here we are in january 2001 debating and voting on a report that was issued back in 1999. it is already history. on such an important subject we want to deal with the present, thereby being better able to shape the future.
mr president, on behalf of the socialist group, i very much support this report and in particular the initiatives behind the etf start-up facility and the small and medium-sized enterprise guarantee facility. i am sure there is a shared opinion across this house of how important small businesses are. in my own country, the united kingdom, the small business population has actually increased in size by one half since 1980 and there is now one small business for every 13 adults in the population. small businesses are important not just for jobs but also for trade in this european union. i recall talking with the counsellor in the british embassy dealing with belgium and the benelux countries and exports into those countries, who told me that the vast majority, over 90% of the enquiries which he deals with, are not from large companies seeking to export but from small businesses. so that is very relevant to us in this house too. it is relevant because of the lisbon process. we welcomed the conclusions from the lisbon summit last year: the move towards flexibility, the move towards entrepreneurship, towards innovation that were reflected there. these facilities should be seen very much as being at the heart of trying to achieve those economic goals. i would also like to change past practice by congratulating mr bushill-matthews. i have sat in the committee on employment and social affairs with him for the last year or so and i have heard him make the same speech time after time about de-regulation and too much bureaucracy at european level. he has actually come up with something constructive here, so well done mr bushill-matthews. nice to see that you can do some work, or at least others can do it on your behalf. i particularly congratulate you on your conclusions regarding the need for more transparency and speed – absolute support for that – and on the importance of the high technology sectors – yes, but not just those. also, i am very surprised to see you putting emphasis on the need to increase female participation in small businesses. congratulations to you for supporting that. i would have liked to see more on the social economy. our cooperative businesses should be seen fair and square as part of the small business sector. they are particularly important in terms of job creation amongst disadvantaged groups in the labour market. they are particularly important in terms of socially useful employment and it is an omission that they are missing from the report. they should not be treated differently; they should be given extra help. perhaps the commission could comment on that at the close of the debate. i would also like to particularly support amendment no 3 from the socialist group. we will be supporting all of the amendments to the effect that bank guarantees behind venture capital are still far too strict, far too conservative and actually prevent entrepreneurs from creating jobs in the uk and in other european countries. let me conclude by saying that yesterday the uk government published think small first, a document about ensuring that every department of government thinks about small businesses, not just about the availability of finance that we are discussing in this debate but about the overall macroeconomic framework and the sorts of advice and skills that they need to support them and become prosperous. we in this european union should follow that lead and ensure that every directorate-general, every service of the european union puts small businesses first.
commission. – mr president, as i am here instead of my colleague pedro solbes mira, i will give his speech in english, also in honour of the rapporteur. this report concerns the first annual report on the growth and employment initiative. this initiative aims to provide financial assistance for innovative and job-creating small and medium-sized enterprises as a step towards the development of a business climate conducive to investment, innovation and entrepreneurship. it is also in line with the lisbon european council conclusions of march 2000 where the objectives of strengthening employment, economic reform and social cohesion as part of a knowledge-based economy were set as a new strategic goal for the union. i would like to address the main points raised by the committee on employment and social affairs' report prepared by mr bushill-matthews. firstly, the report notes that the commission reporting process is too lengthy, causing delays in the receipt of the report by parliament. at the same time, parliament's report states that there is a lack of information particularly concerning feedback information from small and medium-sized enterprises, beneficiaries of the growth and employment initiative. in my view, these two matters are inter-linked and are a result of the way the financial instruments that form part of the growth and employment initiative are constructed. these are designed so as to commit budgetary resources to financial institutions such as venture capital funds, national guarantee schemes and commercial banks which would act as intermediaries for final sme beneficiaries. in this respect, the information regarding commitment and draw-downs made to financial institutions in a given year is available during the first quarter of the following year. on the other hand, feedback information from small and medium-sized enterprises concerning a given year is only available for all the instruments in the last quarter of the following year. this implies that an annual report drawn up by the end of april will include year-end statistics for the previous year at the financial intermediary level and at the sme level, detailed statistics for the preceding year. these time-scales indicate why last year's annual report referring to 1999, which was the first full year of the programme, could not include detailed information at sme level. this leads us to the following point: streamlining the initiative is an objective shared by both parliament and the commission. however, a re-shaping of the financial instruments of the initiative cannot be done annually. first of all, market players could be confused and find it difficult to appreciate the reasons for these changes. furthermore, a detailed evaluation of these instruments based on a bottom-up approach is needed. regarding the jefv programme which has had the weakest take-up out of the three financial instruments of the growth and employment initiative, the multi-annual programme for enterprises foresees a simplification of the scheme to enable smes' requests for financial contributions to be dealt with more quickly by the financial intermediaries and the commission services. the possibility of adopting the eligibility criteria will also be examined in order to respond more effectively to the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises. concerning the reform of the european investment fund, the report is incorrect in stating that the commission can no longer use the eif directly as a tool for financing smes. as before, current and the future community schemes entrusted to the european investment fund will be managed separately from its own resources under the principle set and controlled by the commission services. finally, the report questions the tax structure of venture capital funds and calls on the commission to encourage each member state to adopt laws permitting tax-transparent funds to be created in their country and to recognise transparent funds established in a similar way in other member states. this matter, which is of great interest to the commission, has recently been dealt with in the commission communication on the risk capital action plan which was finalised in october 2000. to quote from the report "the tax structure might hinder cross-border investment by creating specific tax obstacles or even discriminating against foreign investors. a comprehensive response to such barriers might be achieved most effectively through coordinated action on eu level. in any event, member states have to make sure that tax treaties and all other tax law instruments prevent double-taxation of dividends in cross-border investment'. to conclude, now that the restructuring of the european investment fund is complete, the commission services and the eif are working together to progressively implement the ecofin and industry council's decisions, in particular with the multi-annual programme for enterprise. to be realistic, parliament should not expect any substantial result before 2003 or 2004, although preliminary indications in particular from guarantee schemes might be available earlier. let me add as the budget commissioner, that the commission has welcomed parliament's decision for the 2001 budget to increase amounts for loans and grants available to smes. this was an important signal to the small and medium-sized enterprises and an important step to achieve the aims of lisbon to create a knowledge-based modern economy in the european union.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0338/2000) by mrs oomen-ruijten, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the situation of frontier workers (2000/2010).
mr president, i also wish to thank mrs oomen-ruijten for her work on this issue. i share many of her criticisms and frustrations about the scope, implementation and speed of change to regulation 1408/71. as a member of the committee on petitions, it is clear to me that there is a considerable and growing number of residents, including third-country nationals and frontier workers, for whom the current arrangements are not working satisfactorily. enlargement will make a complex system of coordination even more complex and it is not surprising that many citizens simply do not believe that the union takes the free movement of citizens as seriously as it takes its commitment to the free movement of goods. we have to find a way of simplifying things for citizens themselves and for the administrators of these systems. it would not be surprising if we were to hear an increasing number of calls for a single european agency that would deal directly with national administrations on the citizens’ behalf. the call for a directive concerning frontier effect reports is to be welcomed. at least these would be proactive and could hopefully deal with some of the problems before they arise, which would make a pleasant change. it is also clear that as more countries integrate their taxation and social security systems, we need to take action to tackle the resulting anomalies, which can result in double payments. however, the key issue is that member states need to prove their commitment to free movement by tackling problems openly and in a spirit which favours residents of the european union. (applause)
- the debate is adjourned until 3:00. we now move to the vote.
- thank you, mrs. banotti, for your concern for the interests of non-smokers.
mr president, on a point of order. i welcome the fact that there is now going to be a smoking rather than a non-smoking zone. i hope now that all members and all members of staff observe the no-smoking areas across the whole of the european parliament building. i am still having problems being able to get into the part-session and being able to get in and out of committee meetings, both here and in brussels. so i plead with everybody, now there is a smoking area, to use it and not the no-smoking areas, including the corridors and going up to the lift.
mr president, on a point of order. i was just wondering whether anybody is going to inform the particles of smoke where the smoking zone and the no-smoking zones are.
- we now move to the vote.
the commission. ladies and gentlemen, in the debate yesterday the commission explained why and under what conditions it could accept parliament's amendments. the wording of some of these amendments would have to be changed, however, because otherwise the consistency with the explanatory statement and recitals would not be guaranteed. slight changes in wording are also necessary to ensure consistency with article 20 of the directive.
- ladies and gentlemen, this is an interesting report in that the first reading was in march 1987 at the latest. (the president declared the common position as amended approved)
the commission. if the european union were to support teaching materials with anti-semitic content, that would of course be a very terrible thing. but the measures in the field of education and training which the eu is supporting in palestine concern infrastructure or direct expenditure, for example salaries for teachers, so that the request as it stands is not really justified and should therefore be rejected. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the matter, and if so, what is the commissioner's position?
- the vote is closed. the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment.
- thank you, mr fatuzzo. - thank you. the more i listen to you, the more i realize that, in a short time, i'll know the story of your life.
mr president, there is indeed a crisis of succession in farming as mr parish with his expertise as a farmer knows well. if this crisis is particularly acute in mr parish's own member state, it is the direct result of policies pursued by uk governments over the past twenty years, and to overcome it the united kingdom must review the implications of the fontainbleau agreement for its contribution to european union finances. this has been disastrous for farming. moreover, the rapporteur, a member of the conservative party, must work within his own party to secure support for his proposals in the house of commons. in countries where less than 10% of the population now lives in rural areas, it is too easy for governments to sideline the needs of these areas, and the message from this debate must be that they do so at the peril of their countries.
- voting is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 1 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, parliament's committee on the environment is increasingly concerned that we are adopting european environmental legislation and then neglecting to implement it properly. putting it bluntly, we believe that the council of ministers, the commission and the european parliament are complicit in a deception of the public. opinion polls show that the majority of people support the idea that environmental issues are important and should be dealt with at european level. we are adopting legislation that appears to fill this need. in fact, in all too many cases, environmental laws are ignored, targets are not met, reports are not sent in to the commission on time and those countries which break the law go unpunished. the purpose of this debate is to highlight what is going wrong and to try and do something about it. the committee on the environment has put together three reports, we call them ‘insight reports’, basing ourselves on the model of the us congress. we have found that the habitats directive is locked in controversy and law suits. the pcbs directive is characterised by the failure of member states to supply the all-important inventories of the stocks they hold. the nitrates directive was probably flawed from the beginning and all but two countries, denmark and sweden of course, are now before the european court of justice because of their failure to implement it. it is highly likely that these shortcomings are repeated throughout the canon of eu environmental law. what can be done about this? we hope firstly that in the environmental action programme, which the world is eagerly awaiting, the commission will key in adequate resources for following up what has happened to legislation. it would be interesting to hear from the commissioner roughly how many people in her directorate are responsible for this as compared to those overseeing the introduction of new legislation. there needs to be a much more honest debate secondly – nationally and at the european level – about the real possibility of achieving the environmental objectives set out in draft legislation. too often, we suspect, member states sign up to green laws because it looks good to do so, and opposing or moderating them is seen as politically insensitive. if, in fact, they cannot comply with what they have agreed to, such countries are doing green causes harm. if the germans and others, for example, now have trouble with the habitats directive, why did we not hear more about it when that directive was going through this parliament? and did the german government, in fact, vote against that directive originally? certainly the cost of clean-up laws must be taken into account when a law is adopted. a good example of the failure to do this is the urban waste water directive which the government of brussels cannot afford to comply with. we suspect that the same thing will happen with the national emissions ceiling directive. thirdly, we want member states to develop the infrastructures which will allow them, all of them, to carry out the monitoring work that must accompany the proper implementation of many of the eu directives we adopt here. my colleagues and i were desperately disappointed that the council felt it could not agree to our proposal to transform the environmental inspections recommendation into a directive. we were not demanding an eu inspectorate but simply that member states should agree to bring their national inspectorates up to a common high standard. we will continue to pursue this idea in two years time when the issue should return to us. fourthly, we want much quicker action by the commission to take member states to court when they break eu law. last week the greek government, which can ill afford to do so, paid the second instalment of a fine, now totalling over eur 2 million for failure to comply with a judgment of the court of justice over the dumping of waste in crete. this was thirteen years after the commission received the first complaint about the dumping of that waste and no less than nineteen years after the directive concerned came into force. it is absurd that a poor country should get itself into a situation of paying back money to brussels, but equally absurd that the case should have taken so long. finally, let me say that we in parliament are not daunted or diverted by the idea that the european parliament should only be concerned with the adoption of legislation and not with its follow-up. apparently the environment council was somewhat surprised and even disapproving that we had intruded into their territory and that our intention was to take the environmental inspections recommendation very seriously. meps, as we will all know, are on the receiving end of public criticism of poor implementation. the public tends to complain to us, not to the environment council. in the interests of the people of europe and their environment, we will pursue this issue and we will not let go.
mr president, my assistant, vikki phillips, has just handed me a note which says that denmark spends 15 times more than greece in carrying out environmental inspections and making appropriate assessments. well, if that is the case, then something is clearly very wrong, and i suspect it is not wrong with denmark. i am very pleased to support most of what the chairman of the committee on the environment has said, although i have some trepidation in doing so being conscious that the next ecj fine may well be against the uk for its failure to comply with the bathing water directive, despite the fact that a great deal of money has been spent and effort made in recent years to reach such compliance. i want to make it clear, though, that i do not believe that we should be using the failure of some member states to achieve compliance with environmental legislation to justify weakening our ambitions or claiming that too much legislation is impractical. i am all for being realistic and for making sure that new legislation makes sense but the problems we face both throughout the european union and across the world are too great for us to lower our sights. and i think some of the progress made by the united kingdom in implementing the habitats directive over the past year demonstrates very clearly that it is very often not the fault of the legislation but the lack of political will which is to blame for the failure to deliver the goods we all wish to see. i want strongly to support the idea of a scoreboard which the commissioner mentioned and of gestures to name and shame those member states which are failing to meet the expectations of meps, of the commission and of the public. as a politician, the commissioner knows very well the importance of making sure that that information is presented in a way which is easily digestible and understood by every journalist across the european union and perhaps a few politicians as well. so, let us call it the commission's little red book, no, let us call it the commission's big green book, albeit one with a few black spots on its pages. let us name and shame at every opportunity and bring the public alongside us in ensuring that this environmental legislation is enforced and that member states recognise their responsibilities.
mr president, first of all i must thank the commissioner and the chairman and other colleagues for their words of wisdom. they are very positive and clear commitments to do something about this very serious problem. but it is not just words we need, it is actions, it is deeds, and we cannot rely on member states to do this alone. even if representatives of the council were here, which they do not appear to be, even if they were prepared to make statements, which they do not appear to be, we would not be able to leave them to do it on their own. we need some kind of watchdog to monitor and ensure the implementation of legislation. sadly our own environment agency does not appear to be up to the job yet. we can but hope. so what solutions do we have? what can parliamentarians do? well, these three reports before parliament today are a start. they name and shame. they call for fines. they make proposals for further improvement. but, they also make a point which we must take on board here in parliament. they say essentially that bad legislation should never have been put on the statute book. and that is a lesson that we have to take to heart. perhaps we have to start to think about doing less but better. we have talked about doing it but seemingly not done so yet. when we put better legislation on the agenda in future, it has to be respected. because of the failure of member states to put into place legislation, typically the pcbs and pcts legislation, we now have the extremely serious problem of a long-term contamination of our food chain by a persistent toxic chemical. that toxic chemical is slowly but surely accumulating in the human food chain, reaching levels which are already beyond world health organisation levels in certain fatty substances, typically butter, and in some cases fatty fish, such as salmon. they are now creeping up the food chain to the point where our children are now starting to ingest amounts of these toxins that are beyond those that are recommended by the world health organisation. if we are not prepared to take serious action promptly in future we will see further problems of this kind affecting future generations. we owe it to those future generations to pursue this issue.
rapporteur. – mr president, commissioner fischler, ladies and gentlemen, i am delighted to be able to present to you today the committee on agriculture and rural development’s own-initiative report on the situation and perspectives of young farmers in the european union. twenty years ago, i, myself, was a member of my local young farmers' organisation in the county of somerset in england. even in those days it was not easy for young farmers to carry on the family farm or get started in the industry. today the situation has become even more difficult, and we are witnessing a big drop in the number of young farmers coming into the industry. we have reached a point where it has become vital to take action in order to stop this decline. not only for the sake of agriculture itself, but also to safeguard existing structures in our countryside. the last thing that we want to see is a depopulated countryside where the green and pleasant landscape which we take for granted will not be looked after properly any longer. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the european organisation ceja for its help and cooperation in enabling me to produce this report. i was given the opportunity to visit young farmers in five member states which gave me a better and wider understanding of the practical ways in which young farmers could be helped in the industry. i would further like to thank commissioner fischler for his backing and i would also welcome the draft opinion on the report produced by the committee of the regions because it is going to do a report on young farmers. last but not least, i would like to express my thanks to ross gordon consultants who produced an excellent study on the situation of young farmers in the european union last year and whose publication has been of great help in producing today's report. the report puts forward a series of ideas and ways of assisting young farmers starting up or carrying on in their businesses. i have, however, tried not to reinvent the wheel. basically i would like to see the introduction of a guaranteed standard level of assistance for young farmers throughout the european union. i am fully aware that it is not an easy task to come up with one solution covering all the different conditions facing young farmers in their respective countries in a community of 15 member states. to name just two examples: land values can vary from eur 12 000 per hectare to eur 15 000 per hectare. levels of taxation vary greatly with some member states imposing considerable inheritance tax which renders the survival of young farmers very difficult, especially where land values are very high. i do not have the time to go through all the recommendations made in the report, but i will list some of the measures which should be given priority: the continuation of start-up grants of up to eur 40 000, in combination with subsidised interest rates for start-up capital of up to eur 120 000 for eight years. two of the major difficulties encountered by young farmers are the raising of start-up capital and subsequently the danger of overstretching their financial abilities by providing regular interest payments. we are living in a computer age. access to education and training needs to be further encouraged in order to allow young farmers to take full advantage of the potential advantages offered by modern communication technology and business operation techniques. the changing face of agriculture, increasingly determined by global wto agreements, means that agriculture will continue to change. it is in our best interests that young farmers are well prepared to anticipate and to manage these future challenges. food safety measures and production methods are being thoroughly analysed these days. there is greater emphasis on organic production throughout europe. here again, young farmers must be placed in a position which will allow them to embrace a new upcoming culture and to be aware of the benefits attached to maintaining consumer confidence and support for agricultural products. there is tremendous scope for innovative and creative local high-quality production. the european agricultural industry is going through a difficult economic period with a great deal of restructuring going on at the same time. there is a great need to assist some of the older farmers to retire in dignity. in this context, i would very much like see a retirement package for existing farmers linked to bringing in young farmers to carry on the industry. i would like to ask commissioner fischler to recommend to member states that they introduce such a policy throughout the eu. we are seeing the average age of the farming community increase with falling numbers of young farmers. this trend must be reversed. young farmers need greater access to production rights. it is not easy to balance the delivery of additional production rights to young farmers if they have to be taken away from existing farmers who themselves are already facing financial difficulties. when, in future, production rights are changed, i would like to ask the commission to take into greater account the need to increase the amount of extra production which is given to young farmers. with the emphasis in the cap on giving increasing importance to rural development schemes, it is crucial to recognise the young farmers as the key players and main executives responsible for the implementation of such new rural redevelopment policies. with the forthcoming enlargement of the european union, i would strongly advise the applicant member states to start creating supportive measures for their young farmers already at present, especially in view of the introduction of production controls required by the commission. in many parts of the world, share farming is a common practice. i would like to ask the commission to investigate the possibilities for developing share farming within the common agricultural policy. as i have already mentioned, this report is an own initiative report of the committee on agriculture, and i hope all parties will be able to sign up for this report and make sure positive practical help is given young farmers in the future. i would also like to thank commissioner fischler once more for his support and also ask him to introduce an audit to be carried out every two years on the availability and success of measures put in place to support young farmers. it is very important that we do not just pay great lip service to helping young farmers, but actually deliver policies within the common agricultural policy that increase the number of young farmers coming into the industry. (applause)
mr president, the report deals with a most difficult subject: the prospects for young people in the farming industry, as the rapporteur has indicated, are probably worse than at any time since the creation of the cap and their prospects cannot be separated from those of the industry as a whole or from the prosperity of the rural communities. one measure of the complexity of the situation can be found in the courses which are now offered at agricultural colleges. at the two colleges in my region the number of courses relating to farming has now fallen to 40% in one case, and the remaining 60% of the courses relate to horses and small animals. significantly, 70% of the students, however, come from farming families, so there is still that link. the report spells out that there is a strong case for measures to encourage new entrants to the industry and for achieving a much greater degree of standardisation across the european union, and the issue, as the rapporteur mentioned, was well dealt with in the excellent stoa report at the beginning of last year. there are many good examples in that document of the valuable background material which we were able to use during discussions in committee. now that the rural development programme is in place it is important to examine how this programme can be used to strengthen training and re-training facilities in our agricultural colleges. i would emphasise the need for training in farm diversification, including low-volume products for niche markets, and cooperative marketing techniques where, by coming together, individual farms can seek to match the commercial bargaining strength of the supermarket chains. i would also wish to see such courses paying special attention to the needs of the smaller farm where new entrants are most likely to be found. i hope that the commission and the national governments will take note of the many excellent suggestions in this report and thus give a boost to the future prosperity of farming in the rural areas.
mr president, i also commend mr parish for his hard work and the excellent report. in the brief time i have i wish to stress that one of the greatest difficulties facing young farmers entering the business today is capital and cash-flow problems in the first year of operation. i am backing this proposal because young people must be given the opportunity to come into the industry on a sound financial footing. after all, young farmers hold the key to the future of all our rural communities. the lack of young people entering the agricultural industry in the uk is a very worrying problem. statistics show that in ireland 14.8% of farm owners are under 35, in france the figure is 13.2%, but in the uk it is a mere 6.8%. i stress that farms are also important employers in our rural communities. employment protects our countryside, it keeps our post offices, schools and services open there. farming and the viability of farming is the life blood of the future of our rural communities as we know them. if all small businesses – which includes farmers – were to employ just one more person each, then the whole unemployment situation throughout the european union would be solved overnight. of all the european union countries, only the uk and the netherlands do not operate a specific aid scheme for young farmers. european rural development regulations allow a grant of eur 16 500 to be made available for people under 40 years of age to establish themselves in a viable farm holding. yet the labour government in the uk has not taken advantage of this excellent scheme. i therefore fully support making installation aids mandatory across the european union. the farming industry needs young blood in order to inject a new vibrancy into an industry which at present is aged and disillusioned. young farmers are the future of the farming industry and vital components in urban communities. i thank mr parish for his report and wish his report all the best to ensure that we can follow up these important decisions taken by him in a specific and constructive manner.
mr president, there is indeed a crisis of succession in farming as mr parish with his expertise as a farmer knows well. if this crisis is particularly acute in mr parish's own member state, it is the direct result of policies pursued by uk governments over the past twenty years, and to overcome it the united kingdom must review the implications of the fontainbleau agreement for its contribution to european union finances. this has been disastrous for farming. moreover, the rapporteur, a member of the conservative party, must work within his own party to secure support for his proposals in the house of commons. in countries where less than 10% of the population now lives in rural areas, it is too easy for governments to sideline the needs of these areas, and the message from this debate must be that they do so at the peril of their countries.
mr president, could i begin by congratulating mr parish on bringing forward a very excellent report. i know very well that he put a lot of time and effort into it and i am happy it can be debated by parliament today. it is a very difficult subject to address and there is no easy solution to the problem of young farmers, as any of us who have any knowledge of the problem and the background would accept. of course, everybody likes to say we must help the young farmers. the problem is when you ask them how to make the help really worthwhile, they are very slow to come forward with answers. how can you encourage young people onto the land? you have to address the problem within the situation in which young people find themselves today. many young people from rural areas some 20, 30 or 40 years ago, at the time mr mccartin was speaking about, would naturally have gone on to become young farmers. nowadays those young people have many other options open to them. they look around and they see their friends going into jobs where they may quit working at lunchtime on friday and not start work again until the monday morning. but the young farmer will work seven days a week for very little money. you only have to look at the financial situation right throughout the european union at the moment to see that we have a terrible problem here and one that is not going to be easy to address. the reality is that if you do not get young people into the industry, you will not bring the new ideas in and you will not allow the industry to develop and take on the challenges that it faces in the future, relating not just to the production of food, but to how that food is produced and to ensuring that it is produced in a way the consumer finds acceptable. it is not enough just to give financial assistance to young farmers because then all you do is put the price of lamb up out of reach. we in the european union have brought in milk quotas, we have brought in suckler cow quotas, we have brought in sheep quotas, all now with a financial value that the young farmer could not even begin to contemplate. so i believe the best way is to make it easier for young farmers to inherit the family farm at an earlier stage, be it through an early retirement scheme or through a bond scheme. i certainly feel that the european investment bank should be encouraged to help young farmers into the industry through the bond scheme. but, if you are going to bring this scheme in it has to be mandatory and it has to be introduced in every member state. it is not enough to introduce it in one member state alone. finally, we are spending a lot of money on rural development and the commission would do well to look at other ways of spending that money, because, as i see it, we could make better use of it. we could encourage young farmers, who face so much red tape and bureaucracy now. young farmers have computers. farmers' wives know how to use computers and could use them on the farm. that is the way forward for the future.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. it is true that since the end of july last year the chemical industry in the community has not received any export refunds for agricultural raw materials such as starch, glucose, sugar, etc., which are processed into export products. this measure is part of a series of provisions on so-called non-annex i products adopted by the council of agriculture ministers in march last year. since then, exports of these products have been subject to budgetary discipline in accordance with the wto agreement. however, these products will continue to benefit from a product refund at a level which ensures their competitiveness with comparable products on the world market. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry was not able to benefit from the measures in force. in accordance with the wishes expressed in the debate on this measure, the commission is also closely monitoring the further development of the market, including exports, and the budgetary situation in this area.
i thank the commissioner for his answer but would ask the commission to explain the obvious lack of coherence between its and the council's politically declared will to promote the biotechnological industry and the measures taken, which endanger the very existence of this industry.
the commission - of course, i will immediately ask that the document to which your honour refers be examined as well, if it is not already being examined. and if, strange as it may seem, we do not have it, i would beg your lordship to make it available to us. in any event, i would like to say that we would obviously like to see all the recommendations, not three, but all 28, implemented as soon as possible by british nuclear fuels in its activities and activities at sellafield and it is obvious that if all these recommendations cannot be implemented, as the british authorities have said, they would have to take decisions in this respect. i would remind the honourable member that what i can commit myself to do, as i said earlier, is a kind of very close monitoring, but that the competence in this area remains national, and i know that the british authorities are acting with full rigor on this whole issue.
i tabled a question to the commission in october on the environmental hazards posed by du, depleted uranium 238, shells in the balkans and suggested that some of the emergency aid package to serbia should be dedicated to investigating and, if proven, making good the toxic and radioactive damage possibly posed to the people of kosovo. commissioner patten rather surprisingly replied that this was not a priority. in view of the recent eu-wide publicity and concerns expressed about du shells and the hazards posed by the dust in particular if inhaled by soldiers and civilians, particularly children playing in the vicinity of where there has been bomb damage, have the commissioner's views changed since then?
commission. – echo mounted the first operations in the moluccas in march 1999 when an aid package of eur 1 million made it possible to set up medical health and food distribution programmes for displaced people from the ambon and kai islands. the financial decision for indonesia was signed in december 1999 and eur 900 000 were used for the continuation of these two programmes. two further emergency operations with a budget of eur 1.5 million began in march 2000 because the number of displaced persons continued to rise. these operations covered the distributions of foodstuffs and first aid and the operations also ensured medical aid and a supply of drinking water to the displaced persons from the archipelago. as the conflict has reached the north of the molucca islands and particularly the island of halmahera the two ngos financed by echo in ambon, medecins sans frontières, belgium, and action contre la faim, france, have extended their action to include displaced persons from this island. the resumption of violence in may and june last year provoked new displacements all over the archipelago. therefore an emergency aid decision for indonesia was signed in august 2000 for eur 2 million. it is funding a new programme of assistance for displaced persons with a budget of eur 600 000 which involves distribution of food and first aid. world mission germany is carrying out this programme. considering that the situation in the moluccas remains a cause for humanitarian concern, a new humanitarian aid decision of 2 m was signed on 5 december 2000. the decision includes a project for the improvement of the victims' nutritional and health conditions which will be implemented by action contre la faim, france. it also includes a project aiming at ensuring the transport of drinking water which will be carried out by the international committee of the red cross. so, we are giving high priority to assisting the people who are the victims of this very unfortunate conflict.
the commission. - i can answer the last question by saying that the organizations i referred to as our partners in the implementation of humanitarian aid are the ones in question. i would add that a conflict of this nature could escalate if we as humanitarian donors chose implementing partners who could be seen as non-neutral in the conflict. we are careful to avoid this further problem. i fully understand the nature of the conflict and the emotions that go with it for that reason, but i think that in carrying out the work we are facing it is right to do as we do.
this aid is very laudable on the one hand, but, could it not also be letting the indonesian government off the hook; and should we really not use the political and economic strength of the european union to force the indonesian government to look after its own citizens, especially this christian minority?
commission. – peace building and conflict prevention, management and resolution continue to have a high priority in our policies, and the commission welcomes the importance attached to those issues by the swedish presidency. peace and democratic stability are indispensable preconditions for economic and social progress. conflict prevention is an integral part of the eu's external policy objectives. the challenge is now to address in concrete terms the root causes of conflicts and to focus on actions and the implementation of policies. the eu's contribution to conflict prevention is greatest where we can use or adapt our different instruments, especially trade and cooperation agreements, development assistance and social and environmental instruments, to tackle causes of conflict. the last development council, by focusing the objective of development policy on poverty reduction, has laid the basis for addressing one of the major causes of conflict – the widening of disparities in prosperity and poverty. let me again repeat that the hipc initiative alleviating the debt of the poorest countries is also a very real contribution to conflict prevention. globally, the low level of development assistance is, in my view, the biggest single issue that needs to be addressed if we are to be serious about conflict prevention. the commission has already had numerous discussions with the swedish presidency and we share their concerns. it was, for example, decided to have a policy debate on conflict prevention in the general affairs council on 22 january. we agreed that we needed to incorporate the concept of conflict prevention in existing policy instruments to strengthen cooperation with the united nations, the osce and other regional organisations and to find common approaches to cross-border phenomena of destabilisation such as the trade in narcotics, weapons or diamonds. we really need better instruments in these fields, of course. the commission will present a communication on conflict prevention this spring. it is fully aware of the crucial role of development cooperation in this context. we will work closely with the swedish presidency to maintain conflict prevention and peacekeeping at the top of our agenda.
mr president, commissioner, the answer is, of course, very satisfactory but i wondered if you were aware commissioner that the strategic policy planning and early warning units in the commission has 20 staff, 11 of whom are responsible for the balkans and only one responsible for africa which is your responsibility. i wonder if you would look at that issue and try to ensure that we have more staff on the ground in these units. also, are you aware that they depend on annual funding which means that they cannot make long-term planning of the kind that you suggested now, so it is important that the commission looks at these issues. secondly, commissioner, the whole matter of decentralisation to the delegations: will you be ensuring that in the delegations you have members of staff with expertise to deal with conflict prevention and peace building?
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs on the excellent work that they have done. i speak specifically of the issue of regional management of the common fisheries policy. in fact the term zonal management better expresses the kind of development that we would like to see implemented. this would involve much fuller participation in decision making by all those with a direct interest in each of the ices divisions, whether engaged in fishing, fish processing, science or conservation. if such a system were already in place we would not be facing the difficulties we face at present over the commission's proposals for a cod recovery plan for the north sea. it is the clear view of those most directly involved that, as initially announced, the plan would have both a disastrous effect on the industries concerned and an adverse effect on cod stocks, and this view is supported by conservationists. the scottish meps are most grateful to the commissioner for meeting us and for his assurances that these proposals are not yet firm ones. a great deal of work has been done locally, both in scotland and around the north sea, on conservation measures in general and on cod recovery in particular. i hope that the commission will take the results of this work very seriously indeed. in particular, i would ask it to abandon the idea of requiring 140 mm mesh size and also to recognise the extent to which the scottish fleet depends on a mixed fishery. accordingly, instead of imposing blanket restrictions on some 15 000 square miles of the north sea, i trust that it will opt for seasonal closures in areas where the cod concentration is high.
mr president, commissioner, it was inevitable that the gallagher and poignant reports would not only comment on the past but would focus in detail on the cfp review, and i consider it entirely appropriate that the meps should seek to influence the review process in advance of any formal consultation with parliament. i contend that the principal objective of the cfp, namely the conservation of fish stocks, has not been realised and as a result we have had to face dramatic year-on-year fluctuations in quotas, as exemplified by the current cod crisis. in addition, we must re-examine the process by which, and the level at which, decisions are made. various amendments tabled with my name attached seek to establish certain important principles for the cfp review, including that relative stability should remain since the good reasons for its inclusion as a founding principle remain valid. that in the light of experience with areas like the shetland box, specially protected areas based on scientific advice should continue in the future. and a system of zonal management should be established based on the ices areas and with representation from fishing, science and conservation interests able to participate meaningfully, not to renationalise the cfp, not to take away power from the council or the commission but to allow each member state with quotas in a particular zone to assist in devising and recommending controls which are relevant, appropriate to these areas and, therefore, more likely to succeed. recent events have led to even greater lack of faith within scotland in the decision-making processes and in the structure of the cfp itself. how can, for example, the commission justify continuing levels of industrial fishery and even increases in white fish by-catch while on the other hand reducing quotas of fish for human consumption?let us use the opportunities arising from the review of the cfp to achieve a solution which works. i challenge the commission and the council to look seriously at zonal management within a framework of community-wide objectives, of course, but so that interested parties can participate more fully and so that the new cfp, once agreed, can actually achieve its purpose, namely the long-term sustainability of european fisheries.
mr president, when we discuss the excellent reports by my colleagues mr varela, mr cunha, mr poignant and mr gallagher, it is against a background of crisis in the eu fisheries sector. as we contemplate the radical reforms of the cfp, which are clearly necessary and long overdue and which are highlighted in these reports, we do so in the knowledge that fish stocks are in spiral decline. too many fishermen are chasing too few fish. as a result, eu fishing fleets are shrinking and many thousands of jobs are being lost at sea and on shore. the situation in the north sea is of particular concern. savage cuts in the total allowable catches and quotas were announced in december by the council. now the commission is seeking to implement emergency interim measures to aid the recovery of cod stocks, which have fallen to unsustainable levels in that sector. i am extremely grateful, like my colleagues, the other scottish meps, to commissioner fischler for agreeing to meet us earlier this evening to discuss these dramatic emergency measures. we welcome mr fischler's generous offer to meet with leaders of the industry to discuss alternatives to the draconian proposals which have been widely publicised by the fisheries dg in the last few days. a sensible, multiannual cod recovery plan embracing realistic technical conservation measures, the closure of cod spawning grounds and the decommissioning of the larger new fishing vessels will surely be more sensible than the pursuit of a plan which would allow industrial fishing to continue in vast restricted zones and which would potentially lead to the bankruptcy of half the scottish fleet. the poignant and gallagher reports have attracted some amendments, which seek to do away with the 6/12 mile limits and break open the shetland box and gain free access to the north sea. clearly there are some member states that still regard the resources of the north sea as a rich prize. i hope that this debate may bring them to their senses.
mr president, it is always comforting to see the same few faces at every fishing debate and i would like to reassure the commissioner and colleagues and friends that we may be small in numbers but we all have an active interest in fishing and no matter how late the debate is, rest assured we will be there. the reform of the cfp and the forthcoming launch of the green paper mark a critical time for the fishing industry. on the one hand all of us here in this chamber want to see the existence of the fishing industry, not least because we enjoy eating the product; but on the other hand we are faced with grave scientific evidence of depleting fish stocks, so much so that certain species may no longer exist in the future. in scotland, as mentioned this evening by many of my scottish colleagues, the issue of cod is dominating the news agenda. some say that even before the launch of the green paper there could be little left of the scottish fleet because of cuts in tacs, quotas and the proposed cod recovery proposals. others say that in order to have a fishing industry at all we need to conserve, they hark back to the 1996 article in nature warning of the collapse of cod stocks. i really do not know how you square the circle, but by the end of 2002 we must. from talking to people in the industry, those involved in scientific research and those involved in conservation, it seems there is a willingness to be involved and a need for greater participation of all those concerned. in scotland, the scottish fishermen's federation and the wwf have joined forces and suggested a better way of working. the proposal for zonal management and greater regionalisation of the cfp is a serious one that has the support of fishing and conservation groups alike. in other countries there are also suggestions. this can only be good for debate. in conclusion, this year and next will provide an opportunity to get the cfp right. i look forward to debating this on future tuesdays in strasbourg.
commission. – mr president, let me first of all say that i feel it is a privilege to discuss these matters, as we are doing here on the basis of your report. for me it represents a sort of idyllic political consensus. we agree on your report and we welcome it very much and this is not just nice, it is also really valuable for bangladesh and other partners. it is very useful that we in europe should profoundly agree on how to work with our partners. if we were discussing aimlessly without any sort of direction, they would not have a good partner, so it is really important that we agree. a year ago i deliberately chose bangladesh as my first destination on a normal bilateral field trip. we went there after the unctad conference in bangkok. i wanted to go to a non-acp ldc country to start in the right place. i also wanted to start in a country as commissioner doing field trips, a country that i knew well already in order to better be able to assess how the commission works. if i went to a country i did not know, there would be too many disturbing impressions, but this one i knew quite well and i am happy to say that i was positively surprised by what i saw in the field. we were closer to the poor women, we were further out in the villages than i had expected and we worked more through bangladeshi ngos than i had expected. this is a good basis and also one of the reasons why parliament and commission are in harmony about where we go now. there are big problems to discuss with the government of bangladesh, notably its inefficiency: it performs as badly as the commission, so the two of them have a lot to talk about, but we know that and we are clear about it saying "our delivery problems are clear and well-known, but please do not add to them by also being slow and unclear in your decision-taking process". this is why the new agreement that we are now deciding on is so important, because it, in fact, brings cooperation one step further forward and clarifies priorities. we will go from one country to another across the world and bring what we are doing up to normal standards concerning the basis of cooperation and priorities. so this is all very good as to the questions that have been put concerning the elections, on 27 january we are sending the assessment team from the commission over there and we will be ready, willing and eager to include representatives of parliament in an observation capacity. if this is what we finally decide to do, we think it may be very useful. bangladesh has done quite a number of valuable things in recent years: regionally, agreeing more with her neighbours and approaching solutions to very old problems. as to the chittagong hill tribes, we take the view that the issue there is moving too slowly. i clarified this when i was there in february last year. on the other hand, problems relating to land-ownership and other things are very difficult to solve in any country. the attitude is important and i believe they are trying to do something meaningful. what mr van den bos has mentioned concerning donor coordination and the many ngos in bangladesh is interesting and important. many innovations have taken place there. microcredit is a great achievement and it is not only one very famous organisation that has been successful. but i would come back, when we talk about development in bangladesh, to the role of women. this is quite remarkable. their ability to change the life and the situation of families is extraordinary, but i would, in fact, point to the many young women and girls in the textile factories who in a strange way represent the chaotic way of modernisation. the alternative – not having jobs – is quite problematical, but the kinds of jobs they have are also very problematical. at the end of the day our liberalisation, the access for them to our market, is part of the hope of these women and of bangladesh, so i think we are on the right track and i very much appreciate the support and the agreement that we have on what to do in bangladesh.
mr president, i am very pleased to be able to speak in this debate on european union cooperation with bangladesh, a country i know well, a country i was proud to visit with the european parliament's delegation in the autumn of 1998. there are, of course, a great number of people with bengali roots settled in london and other parts of the european union, people originally from dhaka, sylhet and other parts of bangladesh. i know from them and from my visit that bangladesh is a country of proud, hard-working people and a country with great prospects, but one which does need assistance from the more wealthy and developed parts of the world like the european union. this report helps provide that support and should be commended, and accordingly i pay warm tribute to the rapporteur and my other colleague. but the rapporteur said something which struck me, as did mrs maes. the rapporteur said that state structures in bangladesh work badly and mrs maes derided some of the advances that bangladesh has made in recent years. yet in many ways i think that bangladesh is amazing for the way that it does work. it does work despite its turbulent and violent history, despite the political problems, despite its other difficulties and despite the poverty. it does function and, as the commissioner has just said, that is amazing considering all the difficulties. i believe that this is fundamentally a credit to the people and indeed to the government of bangladesh. now on the positive side – and some of you from other countries may not be aware of this – bangladesh has lately been admitted as a full test cricket playing nation. perhaps more significantly, reserves of natural gas have now been discovered in the bay of bengal. the european parliament has to help ensure that bangladesh is not exploited by the big multinational companies, that it is able to use its reserves properly and to sell them at the most competitive price, which may not mean just to india or to russia. the cricket aspect may seem irrelevant but it does show a determination to succeed and bangladesh will do well in this field of test cricket and this will be an inspiration to millions of people in that country. the report makes it clear that if the european union works in partnership with local people it can help on big issues. it can help with family planning, the key to stability for bangladesh. a poor or developing country cannot sustain a birth rate above two children per woman. the idea that a large family is automatically the route out of poverty must be eradicated and women, all women, must be able to choose whether or not to have children. european companies must also make certain that they do not exploit the cheap labour and do not continually perpetuate the working environment in factories, where the women suffer and work very long hours for very little money. furthermore the european union has the expertise to help with other problems in bangladesh – the flooding that we have heard about, that destroys great swathes of the land on a regular basis is not inevitable. europe has the know-how to prevent the deforestation. we have the knowledge and experience, for example in the netherlands, to help improve low-lying land and land susceptible to flooding. we, as a european union, already help bangladesh with grants, with least-developed country status, and with the preferential access to markets that this brings with it. but we can, i believe, and we must do more. the future of bangladesh also depends on its youth. to my mind too many of the young people in bangladesh leave to be educated abroad in europe and the united states, which i commend, which is good; but then many of them do not go back to bangladesh to take back their education, their experience and their great strength. we must encourage them to do so. i will end as i began, by saying that bangladesh is a country with a future. just as the last part of the twentieth century belonged to the countries of south-east asia, the tiger economies, i believe that the first part of this century can belong to the countries of south asia. with help from this parliament, bangladesh can share in that sense of belonging, in the wealth, the prosperity and ultimately the success that will bring.
mr president, we very much welcome the cooperation agreement which is an affirmation of the good relations between the european union and bangladesh and provides a framework for their further expansion. article 7 of the agreement deals with regional cooperation, and i would firstly like to touch on two points which relate to bangladesh's regional situation and her relationship with neighbouring countries. although there is still some tension in border areas with india, there has been a great improvement in relations between the two countries. evidence of this has been the signature of the water sharing treaty with india. following this there has been an interim agreement for sharing the waters of the tista river and indian assistance in preparing the project report on the proposed ganges barrage which will be located on bangladeshi territory. the two countries have also recently begun talks on fighting floods which have deluged both countries with tragic consequences. this cooperation is good news and to be encouraged and supported. i have to say i do not see the same positive approach on the part of the burmese authorities. in fact, in the last few days, there have been troop deployments by the burmese in support of burmese attempts to construct a dam on the naf river close to the bangladesh border, sixty miles south east of cox's bazar. in the past, such actions have resulted in military action. a particularly regrettable aspect of this activity is that anti-personnel landmines have reportedly been laid along the border by the burmese. bangladesh is the only south asian country to have signed the ottawa convention banning these weapons. deplorably, myanmar is not a signatory to the convention and there are indications that she has planted mines inside bangladeshi territory including on agricultural land. myanmar should accede to the mine ban treaty immediately and bangladesh should take steps to ratify the treaty. i hope the commission and council will pursue these points in their dealings with both countries. on a separate matter, the report describes the impact of population growth in bangladesh on food security and economic development. the population of 127 million is likely to grow to over 200 million by 2030. this represents a huge push factor for emigration including to the european union. bangladesh must facilitate the re-admission of nationals who are illegally in the territory of an eu member state. this is recognised in the declaration attached to the cooperation agreement. it is important that the government of bangladesh should take early steps to enter into negotiations with those member states that so wish and to conclude mutually acceptable re-admission agreements. i trust the commission will also attach importance to this.
madam president, we need to establish the facts in this case. we have received certain assurances from mr solana but we know, and our italian colleagues in particular will remind us of this, that it will be difficult for those whose sons have died of leukaemia to accept that assurance unreservedly. these days we cannot easily accept death when better health and prosperity seem to have brought us so near to immortality. we now need to reinforce mr solana's assurance with repeated testing offered as widely as possible and with the maximum openness from the american authorities. i have been asked, particularly by my colleague lord inglewood, who represents the area of cumbria where test-firing of these weapons has taken place, to insist that the question as to the possible effect upon the civilian population should be taken into account when this testing is carried out. if he is going to reply to this debate, mr solana might like to address that point. there were a large number of british soldiers in the balkan war and, of course in the gulf, and as a british conservative i will say this: of course, we are concerned about the possible impact of the use of depleted uranium, but against the background of mr solana's statement, we do not believe that nato should adopt a moratorium on the use of such weapons. we have to fight terrible wars against terrible people. such a moratorium could place our forces at a potential disadvantage and thereby potentially endanger more lives than the nato forces. as mrs wallström has said: the real and immediate danger in the balkans comes from general environmental degradation following years of neglect, corruption and war. this is what the european union needs to address while we monitor very carefully the results of medical testing. in conclusion let me say that mr wurtz's contribution was very revealing of the constant agenda of the left which aims to separate the european union from the united states and would result in depriving europe of any real influence in the world. (applause from the right)
mr president, i find it slightly bizarre to talk about the precautionary principle in relation to weapons, which are after all designed to be bad for your health. the problem, of course, is that you only have to mention the word "uranium" and there is an outbreak of what can only be described as mass hysteria. of course, the illnesses and deaths must be investigated and i welcome the action taken by nato member states to that end, but we have to make a judgment on the facts and the facts are very clear at the moment. there is no link between depleted uranium and the illnesses. if we look at the study of gulf war veterans that was done in the united states and compare that with the study of the control group, there is no difference in the death rates, or illness rates, or the rates of cancer between the two groups. we must ensure that we are working on the basis of scientific fact and that is why it is not appropriate to call for a moratorium at the moment, when there is no scientific link between the two. there are a lot of other issues to do with the balkan war which we should be investigating, like unexploded cluster bombs and the environmental damage which the commission has outlined, but let us stick to the facts.
mr president, on a point of order. perhaps we could just settle that point of order now. lord bethell is, and remains, firmly a member of the british conservative group.
rapporteur. – mr president, this proposal is about money for an instant, non-military response by the union to crises. it is first pillar – for those who understand union jargon – and is driven by the commission. it is not a military, rapid reaction force, which is, of course, second pillar, and driven by the council of ministers. however, i have been invited, lobbied and asked how i am going to deploy the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy's soldiers, tanks and planes. i have been asked whether we are going to use naval bases in cyprus and to address a conference of canadian soldiers. i want to make it absolutely clear that this is nothing to do with the military rapid reaction force: this is a financial facility for the commission to respond to crises very rapidly. although the commission will deploy the money as fast as is necessary, parliament retains control as one half of the budgetary authority. we shall vote the money and we shall look forward to the reports from the commission on how it has spent the money. we expect the commission to spend the money on responding to crises by buying medicines, hiring doctors or nurses, chartering aircraft to carry the medicines, nurses or policemen – whatever is required – to the crisis, wherever it is – not necessarily within europe. in the past the union has been rightly criticised for being slow in responding to crises. we have failed to send an immediate response when it was most obviously required, and this proposal is part of commissioner patten's praiseworthy efforts to improve the union's aid programme, which is in a bit of a mess, to say the least. i hope very much that parliament will support it, and i will come back to that. we would be very interested to know whether, when the commissioner responds to this debate, he would be able to outline the types of situations that he envisages this may be used for – although, of course, we have some ideas ourselves. i have been asked by a number of colleagues who have read the report why, if it is such a good idea, there are so many amendments in it. the original commission proposal was dated april last year, but after that nothing happened. it was blocked, it appears, by the french presidency, with no explanation of what was happening. so i tabled a question at question time asking for an explanation and miraculously – but maybe there was no connection – the french presidency and the commission got together to negotiate to remove the blockage. they came up with an alternative text but, i am sorry to say, the council has never had the courtesy to inform parliament of the new version of the text. so the many amendments in my report are an attempt to amend the original proposal and for us to comment on the new compromise text which we happened to obtain, even though it was never given to us officially. parliament has only one reading on this, which is another reflection which was not corrected at the nice summit of the democratic deficit. it should, of course, be codecision, but it is not. however, we were able to threaten to use our single reading to withhold it – like the famous isoglucose case some years ago – and if we withhold an opinion, nothing further can happen. so we have an effective veto. but, happily, the committee in parliament has looked at this proposal in great detail and is in favour of it. hence the many amendments proposed by the committee. finally – i am not going to go into the details of the amendments – i am happy to say that the committee adopted the amendments almost unanimously, with the single exception of the british conservatives. they will no doubt explain why that was so. that was the party which i felt obliged to abandon because it had become totally negative about europe. i very much hope that when we vote on this proposal they will at last feel positive and give it their wholehearted support.
mr president, i hope i have the commissioner's attention, as he is in conversation with mr brok at the moment. throughout this parliament we have been calling for the commission to introduce more efficient financial management and administrative procedures so that it can deliver external assistance and implement its programmes such as mine action urgently, in times of crisis or when lives are at stake. it seems to us that this was the underlying motive behind mr patten's proposal for the rapid reaction facility. i hope this is the case and i would ask for a reassurance on this point from the commissioner. it is a pity that the term "rapid reaction facility" has been used for what after all should be a procedural matter, a financial management instrument. it is easily confused with "rapid reaction force"; it has been confused in the media and even in parliament's own session news this week. perhaps in the interest of clarity and to avoid confusion, the commission could change the title to something like "urgent financing facility". we support the principle as i have described it, but one or two unfortunate elements seem to have crept in. firstly, instead of referring to the facility in the context of cfsp and the commission's own first pillar external actions, it has been put into the context of the common security and defence policy. now we have expressed our concerns about the eu meddling in military matters on many occasions and our reservations have not been eased by developments at nice. this is a separate issue. the commission's financial facility should not be mixed up with these defence issues. secondly, there is a thread of political correctness running through the proposal. i am baffled for instance by the idea that the fight against gender discrimination would fall into the crisis management category, triggering the use of the rapid reaction facility. thirdly, for us more importantly, mr newton dunn, the rapporteur, has taken the opportunity to introduce an amendment in pursuit of one of his pet subjects, namely the establishment of a european public security force, in other words a european gendarmerie or armed police. this is the main reason why we cannot accept this report. we do not want a european army and we certainly to not want a european police force. we do want the commission to carry out its external assistance with greater efficiency and we welcome measures to that effect.
mr president, my party fully recognises the need for the developed countries to make available resources for international crises and for our response to be rapid and effective. in this context, the commission's proposal looks attractive in that it provides the mechanisms for affording a response to crisis situations. however, we believe that for our efforts to be both rapid and effective, they should be planned, funded and executed on a truly international scale, utilising the resources and the capabilities of the whole free world, including the technical genius and the good will of the united states. the mechanisms for ensuring this already exist in the form of the united nations and its various agencies. although imperfect and always capable of reform, these agencies have provided good service and have relieved much suffering. for the future, the way to ensure that responses are maximised is to continue working through these agencies, ensuring that resources are used wisely and efficiently. as far as the commission's proposal is concerned, this is simply reinventing the wheel, putting the political ambitions of the european union before the needs of suffering people. people in crises need a european rapid reaction facility as much as a fish needs a bicycle. we should abandon these grandiose plans and instead support and develop the existing agencies which have a better track record that the eu will ever have.
mr president, in discussing this matter i very much welcome the proposal from the swedish foreign ministry that i have just seen today for a goal-oriented action plan for conflict prevention, because as i have said before, we in the european union should be sending a philosophy for peace to areas of conflict and not just armies. the european union is the best example in the history of the world of conflict resolution and that is something we tend to forget. look at the last century: the first half of it was marked by the worst conflict the world had ever seen: two world wars and millions of people dead and killed. yet who could have foreseen that in the second half of that century those same people would come together in the european union. as i know from my own experience, the principles at the heart of european union will resolve conflict wherever they are applied in the world. therefore do you not think it is a very positive and sensible suggestion for the european union to have a department that does precisely that? in other words, the commission should have a department of peace and reconciliation and a commissioner for peace and reconciliation to go to areas of conflict in advance and apply the principles of conflict resolution, particularly those principles at the heart of european union itself.
mr president, i am very sorry to have heard in the debate meps from my own region in the uk from different parties say that they will be opposing this report. i am pleased to support the rapid reaction facility and i do so as a member of parliament's development committee. in the week that 600 people lay dead after the earthquake in el salvador, this european union must be able to move more quickly just as we failed to do in response to the impact of hurricane mitch in that same country back in 1998. i ask commissioner patten in closing the debate, first to assure us that the facility will be utilised in response to crises world-wide in support of the eu's development goals and not just in europe's own backyard. second, could he tell us how he could make such a promise when year after year the commission proposes funding interventions in central and eastern europe and in the former yugoslavia at the expense of budget lines benefiting the developing countries. third, will he undertake to bring forward a detailed operational relationship between the rapid reaction facility and the financing of echo and indeed explain why he has not at one and the same time brought forward proposals to speed up our humanitarian assistance as part of the reform programme which he knows we support. finally, can he tell us is he shares our belief that development is the best form of conflict prevention and to commit himself to enhancing the eu's development programme to avoid the need for crisis intervention in future years.
madam president, can i say we have made enormous progress over the last three years in terms of relations with the dprk. we have now had three interparliamentary delegation meetings and the resolution calls for the koreans to come here again to continue the dialogue. we have seen the european commission move from not talking to the north koreans to having an echo representative in pyongyang and we have now moved from five member states with diplomatic relations to, i understand, thirteen in the process of establishing diplomatic relations with the dprk. i would like very much to see the european community also establish diplomatic relations with the dprk. we give money to the kedo project as mr patten has said, we give humanitarian and food aid and are hoping to give other structural assistance, a total of eur 275 m. it is crazy to be doing that without having the ability to have a political dialogue. we need a dialogue on human rights, we need a dialogue on weapon sales, we need a dialogue on economic development. the reality is that with the collapse of the soviet empire, the failure to make the transition from the stakhanovite heavy industries of the past to the new light industries and a series of natural disasters, the economy is in complete crisis. observers are estimating that the resulting food crisis has led to the premature deaths of 3 million north koreans, one in eight of the population. today their only exports are raw materials and military hardware. if we can find a solution, we can help the people of the dprk to help themselves with food aid and assistance in restarting and rebuilding agriculture, mining and non-nuclear energy projects. and if we involve ourselves in removing the imperative to export military material then we may force the incoming bush administration to reconsider its apparent blind commitment to national missile defence with the threat to world peace and stability that poses. i would like to congratulate president kim dae-jung of the republic of korea on his commitment to the sunshine policy which will allow the normalisation of inter-korean relations and welcome kim jong il's positive response. dialogue is the way forward. europe should pursue this not only because it is currently the policy of the republic of korea but because it is the right way to go. our advantage is that we are not japan or the united states and we can act as honest brokers in this most dangerous area of the world.
rapporteur. – mr president, i want to propose a technical oral amendment to amendment no 28. i apologise for not spotting the technicality in committee. amendment no 28 reads at present: "the community shall each year set a global ceiling for funding action under this regulation." as commissioner patten pointed out during the debate, it is not the "community" which sets the budgetary ceiling, it is the budgetary authority. i should like to propose orally that we delete the word "community" and insert instead the words "budgetary authority", so that the amendment would now read: "the budgetary authority shall each year set a global ceiling for funding action under this regulation."
mr president, you mentioned that i had signed that motion on behalf of the liberal group. i want to make it absolutely clear that this is a mistake, or if it is not a mistake, it is some mischievous prank by the dirty tricks department of the liberal party. (applause)i was born a conservative and i trust that i will die a conservative. (applause)
in writing. - over the last eighteen months the british conservatives have been urging the commission to introduce more efficient financial management systems and administrative procedures so that we can provide rapid aid and implement programmes such as demining in times of crisis or when human lives are at stake. they support proposals to achieve these objectives and therefore welcome the commission's initiative to set up a rapid reaction mechanism, despite its confusing name and some unnecessary politically correct elements. but the british conservatives have a fundamental objection to amendments which seek to use these proposals as a vehicle for establishing a 'european public security force'. this concept, which would be that of a kind of european gendarmerie, has enormous implications and has no place in the commission proposal we are discussing at the moment. we were prepared to support the commission proposal if it did not take up these amendments (9 or 39); but if it includes them, we will abstain.
mr president, on behalf of my group i would like to welcome the compromise resolution which we have just passed. a strong and united voice calling unequivocally for a moratorium on the use of depleted uranium weapons is a positive step forward, even if it does not go as far as we would have liked. the greens and efa were calling for a complete ban on the production, export and use of depleted uranium weapons and we believe that we have a legal as well as a moral basis for doing so. the un convention of october 1980 banned the use of certain indiscriminate weapons; the 1996 resolution of the sub-commission on human rights also explicitly condemned depleted uranium weapons because of their non-discriminatory character. the use of these weapons has already, therefore, been condemned in international law. we would also have been more reassured if the resolution had included our concerns about the methodology which is being used to assess the risks of depleted uranium. a growing number of scientists are now challenging the conventional methodology, which is based on doses of external radioactive rays rather than internally ingested or inhaled particles. research shows that deaths from leukaemia resulting from the chernobyl explosion have been one hundred times more than predicted by the relevant radiological protection boards, which have based their predictions on external rays. the enormity of this error conceals the fact that even very low doses of radiation, like that from depleted uranium, can in fact have devastating health impacts. it is therefore essential that we get this methodology right or else all the tests and screening in the world will be simply worthless. finally, i would like to refer to the report on the front page of last week's european voice, which proclaims that the new eu rapid reaction force is apparently planning to use depleted uranium weapons. now remember this is a humanitarian force, which is planning to use a weapon that will leave an enormous legacy of cancers among the very civilians it is supposed to be there to protect. this is nothing short of scandalous and must be overturned.
in writing. - the british delegation of labour members welcomes the action taken by nato member states to investigate the cause of death and illness amongst troops serving in the balkans. we believe that any consideration of the use of depleted uranium should be based on scientifically proven facts. we note that there is so far no evidence of a link between depleted uranium and the health problems suffered by either soldiers or civilians. that is why we think it is not appropriate at this stage to call for a moratorium on the use of depleted uranium weapons.
in writing. - i voted for the moratorium on depleted uranium weapons. i would have preferred a total ban given the very high probability that these weapons cause indiscriminate health damage. i am also opposed to these weapons because of their unacceptable effects on man and the environment in general. i would particularly like to take note of my deep concern at the environmental damage which is very likely to be caused by the firing of the dundrennan firing range in the solway firth. the water is already unacceptably radioactive from the sellafield plant.
the council. - mr. speaker, i have to go. ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament and the member of the european commission! i am glad that the swedish presidency has given us the opportunity to debate this important issue at an early stage in preparation for the forthcoming meeting of the un commission on human rights, the mr commission. i will of course be following closely the views expressed during the debate and reading the mood for the further discussion on the eu's position. the presidency's objective for this year's session is to bring the eu together behind united positions, to encourage the candidate countries to join both the eu presidency and the resolution work and to reach as far as possible a general agreement on the proposals - this year, not least the situation in iran and chechnya. for understandable reasons, it is not yet clear what the follow-up to the special session of the mr commission in autumn on the situation in the middle east will be. it is clear, however, that the issue can be expected to be one of the dominant ones at this year's session and that the eu will be one of the key players. in march last year, the council requested an evaluation of the eu's dialogue with china on human rights. the conclusions are expected to be adopted at the council meeting at the end of january. these define the objectives of the dialogue and specify the modalities for its organisation and for the regular evaluation of the results of the dialogue. it is not yet clear whether a resolution on china will be appropriate for this year's session. the eu is in close contact with the us, which was last year's proposer. the same applies to another issue of concern to the mr commission, namely the resolution on the human rights situation in cuba, for which the czech republic and poland took responsibility last year. among the thematic resolutions, the eu will continue to take responsibility for the resolutions on the rights of the child and the death penalty. the commission of the european communities has adopted a number of resolutions on women's rights, to which the eu is strongly committed, even though they are not eu initiatives. the eu's response to the mr commission's resolution on the world conference against racism is still uncertain, while the eu's participation in the preparations for this world conference will undoubtedly be one of the main challenges of this half-year. the so-called omnibus resolution on the rights of the child, drawn up in cooperation with the latin american group, has unfortunately become almost unmanageable. the eu's ambition is therefore to minimise the resolution and to put the rights perspective at the centre. this ambition is reinforced by the desire to make a useful contribution to the preparations for the un special session on children in september 2001. the abolition of the death penalty is a priority issue of the eu's common foreign policy in the field of human rights, as manifested in the eu guidelines adopted in 1998. an important element in this work is the death penalty resolution of the mr commission. the ambition is to obtain the strongest possible support for this resolution again this year. a key prerequisite for the eu's active engagement in human rights issues is good access to relevant information. the representations of the eu countries and the commission around the world play an important role in gathering information. close cooperation with individual organisations is a key factor, as is cooperation with regional organisations. last but not least, the eu continues to give its full support to the un high commissioner for human rights.
commission. – mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my colleague, mr patten, who had to leave to go to moscow for a meeting, i should like to praise parliament for holding this debate today, because it affords us a valuable opportunity for an exchange of views on the forthcoming commission on human rights. it is important that the views of parliament are taken into account, as the european union works towards establishing positions on the main issues which will be covered in geneva. new positions on the initiatives in geneva will only be finally determined after lengthy negotiations, which are, of course, an integral part of the process. ngos and others are right to highlight the usefulness of discussion and scrutiny of the positions. representatives of the presidency, the commission services and several member states attended a meeting of the human rights contact group held in brussels on 11 january. a wide range of ngos got an opportunity to set out their views with regard to key country and thematic concerns and this input will no doubt prove helpful to the deliberation process. the 56th commission on human rights of last year inevitably had its high and low points. the adoption of the resolution tabled by the european union on the death penalty was a welcome achievement. the european union may repeat this move this year, reflecting the fact that the issue remains of paramount concern. the swedish presidency has signalled more generally that the efforts made by the european union in connection with the death penalty will be continued and intensified. there was disappointment at the adoption of a no-action motion on china. some members of the human rights commission voted against, making clear that such motions can only serve to stifle discussion and undermine the very raison d'être of the gathering. as i have noted, decisions regarding eu resolutions for this year's 57th commission in geneva have not been finalised, as is usual for this stage of the process. the presidency and member states are examining the situation in several countries, taking into account, where appropriate, the information from the united nations' special rapporteurs and other evidence available. i will venture brief comments on some issues of interest which, whether or not they form part of an eu initiative, will doubtless be topics of discussion for those attending the 57th commission. familiar concerns remain with respect to china, concerns which continue to be heard as part of the eu-china dialogue. positive developments in recent months include the signature of a memorandum of understanding on human rights with the united nations high commissioner last november. it is nonetheless essential that dialogue leads to concrete change, a point reiterated by the european union in geneva last year. with this in mind, the human rights dialogue with china is currently the object of an evaluation exercise which will lead to the adoption of conclusions by the january general affairs council. they will form the basis for carrying forward the dialogue in a constructive and meaningful manner. as regards iran, the resolution adopted at the 55th session of the general assembly in new york welcomed the positive changes in that country. however, it also noted, with concern, continuing difficulties with regard to the restriction of freedoms, the use of executions and torture and discrimination directed against religious minorities and women. the interim report submitted to the general assembly last september by mr copithorne, the special representative, reflected the need to invigorate the progress towards improving human rights. access by the special representative remains, of course, a key preoccupation. finally, as a thematic concern, children's issues will deservedly receive much attention this year, not least at the special session of the united nations general assembly scheduled for september. with this in mind, the european union will continue to play an active role in the resolution on children's rights at geneva and, as last year, will seek the useful cooperation of the latin american and the caribbean group.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the president-in-office and the commissioner for their remarks. in particular for what they have had to say about the death penalty and the situation in china and iran. i only regret that the word russia was not mentioned by either gentleman because it occurs to me that the situation in russia is worrying. this needs to be considered by the commission in particular if we are to look towards a satisfactory human rights situation in europe as a whole. with any luck the timing will be good and mr patten will be able to raise certain questions with the russian president. it is very timely that this matter should come up because it is nearly ten years since the collapse of the soviet union. at that time we had very high hopes that the whole of europe would become a human rights-favourable zone but of course things never turn out exactly as one hopes. the situation in particular in byelorussia has deteriorated dramatically and there have been the most horrible civil wars and massacres on a massive scale in the balkans. we must congratulate ourselves in europe on some progress but not enough has been achieved. i am particularly happy to see what has occurred in poland, hungary and the czech republic. the human rights situation in those countries has improved dramatically and in the baltic states with the build-up of the mixed economic system. some people do not consider that to be a human right, but i believe in fact that it is and represents another step forward that we should welcome. it moves me very deeply every summer to see in the resorts of the mediterranean and elsewhere large numbers of holidaymakers from eastern and central europe including russia holidaying in the way that we have done for many decades. it is, as a british foreign secretary, ernest bevin, used to say, the main purpose of a foreign policy to allow citizens to be able to travel with a minimum of bureaucratic interference and annoyance. i believe though that i should mention two or three of the particular problems of russia. one of them is one in which i have a registered interest, namely the question of media-most, and the alternative television system of russia. i hope that mr patten is well briefed on the question of the present detention of the chairman of media-most, mr vladimir gusinsky. he is rather surprisingly in his house near malaga in spain. i find it bizarre that the spanish police are fulfilling a request made by the former kgb in this way. the war on dissent continues on the part of mr putin. he seems not to have a sense of humour. he does not like to see himself portrayed on the television by a glove puppet with jokes being made at his expense. it seems that it is not appropriate for the president of russia to be lampooned in this way and so he will not tolerate it. it is a most unpleasant feud made all the more unpleasant by the fact that one side is enjoying the support of the president of russia. this is not satisfactory and i hope it will be dealt with during mr patten's visit. very briefly, the other points i would mention in respect of russia are the situation in the russian army, in particular in chechnya, but also internally because the russian army is notorious these days for the cruelty which it exerts and in particular the treatment of its young conscript soldiers. i have also watched with concern in the past year the tendency of the present leaders of russia – many of whom are ex-kgb because they were appointed by a former colonel in the kgb – to be a little bit trigger-happy in the arrest of so-called british, american and russian spies. this is really something that is quite unnecessary i would have thought in the post cold-war environment. so, with those reservations i congratulate the commission and the president-in-office and look forward to an improvement in human rights in the coming year.
mr president, last year i attended the 56th un human rights commission in geneva and last week, i attended the human rights contact group: much more needs to be done and, if anything, the situation is worsening across the world. the promotion and defence of human rights is a high priority for the european union and remains one of the fundamental principles of the union. indeed, i believe the concept of human rights should inform everything we do in the name of democracy because a negative human rights situation is often caused or exacerbated by the absence of democracy and inefficient and corrupt government structures. human rights do not exist in isolation, neither should they be considered in abstract. they are the fundamental rights of all people regardless of who they are, where or to whom they are born. yet as we speak in this chamber, the human rights of men, women and children are being violated. this is why the council and the member states must work for the universal ratification of the main human rights instruments available to all countries, in particular, the international covenant on civil and political rights, the covenant on economic, social and cultural rights, the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, the convention on the rights of the child, already mentioned, the convention on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination and the extremely important convention against torture. we also call for immediate measures to be taken to protect homosexual persons from degrading and inhuman treatment to which they are still subjected: because of their sexuality, they still face the death penalty in certain parts of the world. we also call on the eu to support the un high commissioner for human rights and the other international organisations and ngos in the fight against repression of the independent media already referred to by lord bethell and the repression of journalists and writers and to urge all states to end censorship, to protect the right of access to official information and to stop the restriction on access to modern information technology, often a saviour to people being repressed. we also call upon the council and the un commission on human rights to give full support to the drafting of the international convention on the protection of all persons from enforced disappearances. once again, and i hope not in vain, we call for the abolition of the death penalty. countries can, will and should be named and shamed, but in this house and together with the council and the un commission, we must redouble our efforts to ensure that men, women and children are born equal and can live as equals, enjoying the fundamental freedoms of human rights. that is the message that this house must carry to the un commission on human rights in geneva and i hope everyone in this house will support such an intention.
the council. mr president, commission president and members! of course, i cannot comment on all the points of view. however, i can mention some of the main points in several of the speeches. i shall not, of course, go into swedish domestic policy, since we can deal with such matters in other contexts, but i shall concentrate on the major european issues. i feel a strong desire on the part of several of the representatives, not least the representatives of the major political groups, to work with the presidency towards greater openness. as you all know, there are differences of opinion within the union on this issue, and we shall have to deal with it in a difficult and complex way in the coming months. we believe, however, that a key prerequisite for building trust in the european union, in its policies and in its institutions is transparency, the ability to follow the handling of a question, the ability to hold accountable and the ability to debate. this will create a european political space for debate, which in turn will be the basis for building institutions that will in turn increase democratic legitimacy. what has been said by poettering, baron crespo and others is of course extremely good on this point and something i take to heart. many have mentioned enlargement, not least barón crespo in his powerful visionary speech. i have also been asked by mrs malmström whether we can set a date for the first country to join the union. i want it, we want it, but we don't make that mark. we will not have that debate until we know that the substantive negotiations that must be held will also be successful. i think we would be sending the wrong signal if we were to give a specific date for the first countries, of those currently negotiating membership, to join the union. that would be a wrong signal, because we want to see the difficult negotiations ahead of us result in a breakthrough. such a breakthrough could take place during the swedish presidency and then we can very well set a date in gothenburg. i hope so. i want to, but i'm not sure. when we talk about the big issues and enlargement, we are obviously almost in agreement. there is no stronger support for enlargement than that given by the european parliament. this is the european parliament's project more than any other institution's. it is parliament that has been responsible for enlargement. i am of course very keen that the treaty we signed in nice should also be accepted, because that is the precondition for enlargement to be possible. i hope that we can resolve the differences on the merits between the commission, the council and parliament so that we can move forward on the enlargement issue. enlargement is our common responsibility, a historic opportunity to stop the division of europe into east and west. i believe, as andersson said in his speech, that despite its faults and shortcomings, the treaty of nice opened the way to enlargement, which is important to mention. in the speeches, several members also spoke about the environment. i value what hautala and others have said. i believe that environmental issues should not be seen as a brake on economic development, but rather as a driving force. all the big environmental problems we see today, we're solving with new technology. i'm sure you will. i am also convinced that we already have this technology in practice; it is available. we know what we should reasonably do. when our citizens see what is happening, for example on climate, and we cannot come together to some kind of common response, this will naturally affect the confidence in our institutions. i therefore believe that the gothenburg summit will be an important starting point for the presentation of a road map for success, in which action at political level will actually highlight new technologies, research, development and the belief in human potential. if we highlight this, we will also be at the forefront of the technological development which is a prerequisite for europe to be competitive. see the environment as a driver, not a brake and a dream of times gone by. see the environment as a visionary contribution to a better and more modern europe. we should be able to take this approach together with the meritorious work of commissioner wallström with her environmental action programme on chemicals and their regulation. put that together and in gothenburg we should be able to get a result that is promising. i take note of what you have said on the environment and i share your views to a large extent. employment is, after all, largely a policy which is still, and for the foreseeable future will be, the responsibility of the national parliaments. we have found a form of joint development within the union in the open coordination of the lisbon process. i fully share the view of mr rocard that if we are to move ever closer to full employment, the macroeconomic debate will become increasingly central. put simply, the how can we use the fact that we are working together in a european union to stimulate economic growth further, for example? we're in a situation where we're not vulnerable to stimulus. an individual country is vulnerable, but not a union of countries. this is something we should discuss and it is - i openly admit this - particularly important for those countries which are already in a cooperation on the euro. they are better able to exploit their situation or to stimulate stronger economic growth and thus more employment. i am quite sure that such discussions will take place in the eurogroup. the work at the heart of the union is linked to the internal market and the working of community law in the spirit of monet. this core has already been built. what has now been added is cooperation in another field, for example, what we call the lisbon process. it's different expressions. whatever path we choose for cooperation, the same demands for openness, the same demands for transparency, apply. i do not want a situation where we are between states, between governments, for discussions that can be considered closed, secret, and that make transparency impossible. whatever methods we use, transparency is fundamental. there are many other things that have been said that i feel strongly about. let me say, however, that there are two speeches which i find to be different and of a special nature, but which are politically central and which i would like to emphasize that i have taken up. what mr olsson says about food policy, food quality and the consumer's interest in legitimate protection and rebuilt confidence is very much in line with my own reasoning about the presidency's approach. olle schmidt spoke of refugee policy, of a generous attitude on the part of the union towards those people who come to us for safety and protection. the geneva convention must of course always be the basis for such reasoning, but we should also have ambitions beyond that. we should be able to afford that as a wealthy part of a global community. together, not apart. these are ambitions which we could very well reason and debate about, and an area in which we could take the union forward. i very much sympathize with what olle schmidt said in his speech on a humanistic refugee policy. in conclusion, let me say that we, the swedish presidency, will be in your beautiful building often to have talks and discussions. but we'd also appreciate it if you'd contact us. we are also pleased to welcome you as guests to our somewhat remote and cold country, a country which, however, will be characterized by warmth and community in such contexts, i can assure you of that. welcome to the club. i look forward to working with all the political groups in this parliament for the development of the union.
mr president, commissioner, as you heard from our group chairman earlier in the debate, the epp visited berlin last week. before leaving, i and some colleagues were able to visit potsdam where of course the conference took place where president truman, prime minister churchill – bizarrely replaced by mr atley mid-conference – and marshal stalin agreed to confirm the yalta division of europe. the swedish presidency, as we have heard during the debate, has raised high hopes that we may achieve over the next six months the restoration of a unified europe, but i believe the time for rhetoric has passed and what we are all looking for now are results. i wonder if four questions could be transmitted to the swedish presidency. first of all, does it intend to convene a council or a special meeting to which the government representatives of the candidate countries would be invited, not only to facilitate the negotiations, but to give the important signal to the public that enlargement is not merely a political exercise, a mirage, a constantly distant objective, but that we are genuinely making the progress which is required? secondly, could the bureaucratic negotiations be tempered by an understanding of the past? it does seem cruelly difficult in a sense that the way the enlargement process is presented is merely a question of conforming to some technical acquis, ignoring, perhaps, the specific difficulties that the baltic republics and other central and eastern european countries faced under the soviet system. with the timetable which we have set ourselves: does the swedish presidency agree that this necessitates transitional periods, and, finally, can we confirm that no new hurdles will be placed in the path of the candidate countries. clearly today it has been sweden's day. we all very much hope that in six months' time in gothenburg, once again, it will not only be sweden's day, but europe's day.
- this debate is over.
the council. the honourable member is informed that two decisions have been adopted in application of article 20 of the ec treaty. the first concerns assistance to citizens of the european union through diplomatic and consular representations. the second concerns the measures implementing the abovementioned decision. the annex to this decision sets out the conditions under which the diplomatic representations of the member states may assist any citizen of the union. the uk provides consular services in mecca during the hajj pilgrimage. there are several consulates in jeddah that can assist eu citizens during the pilgrimage.
mr president, i thank the swedish representative for his reply but it does not satisfy my enquiry. he is quite right to say that certain types of consular services are provided in mecca during the hajj by the uk government for british muslims. however, those consular services are not available to muslims from other eu member states who would be there under the same terms and conditions operated by the saudi authorities as uk muslims. it seems a little bizarre that whilst we are supposed to have equal representation and treatment for all eu citizens, in circumstances like the one i have described, there is unequal treatment and unequal representation for eu citizens. could the swedish minister please assure us that he will take up this matter and examine circumstances in which this kind of unequal treatment takes place, to ensure that regardless of religion or nationality people receive the same treatment from consular services by individual member states?
the council. the council shares the concerns of the honourable members about the situation in burma/myanmar, including the new restrictions imposed in recent months on the national league for democracy. the council also noted the recent relatively positive developments, thanks to the efforts of the un secretary-general's special envoy for burma, tan sri razali ismail, and the opening of a channel for dialogue between aung san sui kyi and the military junta. the council has on several occasions expressed its concern in statements and demarches and in the eu's 1996 common position. the council has also repeatedly called for respect for human rights and for concrete measures to promote democracy and national reconciliation. the council hardly describes its policy as constructive engagement but rather as an attempt to bring about change by exerting pressure through sanctions and through dialogue. as mr corbett recalls, the eu's common position was significantly tightened in april last year in the light of the council's concern about the deteriorating situation in burma/myanmar. at the same time, the council agreed to send a second troika on a mission to rangoon. it now appears that the mission will be carried out later this month. the union has made it clear, including at the last eu-asean ministerial council in vientiane last december, that it expects the eu troika to be given equal opportunities to meet all parties involved, whether they come from the government, the national league for democracy or ethnic minorities. the vientiane ministerial, in which burma/myanmar participated, provided an opportune opportunity not only to highlight the links between the eu and asean but also to convey directly to the burmese foreign minister the union's concern about the situation in burma/myanmar. the council also welcomed the commitment of both the eu and asean in the joint statement agreed in vientiane to support the efforts of the un secretary-general's special envoy for burma, tan sri razali ismail, to bring about positive developments in burma.
mr president, may i also welcome the presidency-in-office. i appreciate the answer but i do have to ask, with the knowledge that of course aung san suu kyi has been under virtual house arrest now for about 120 days: how can you suggest that a prisoner is able to carry out a meaningful dialogue or negotiation with her jailer? that is my first question. secondly, should not she and the nld actually be offered basic freedoms before we are prepared to embrace the spdc in this way? you say that the troika will have access to areas and to as many individuals as it wants. are you imposing conditions on this troika visit, which would mean that they are absolutely obligated to give that kind of access? finally, just one last sceptical comment: in 1994 aung san suu kyi did have some negotiation with the slorc, as they were called then, and they said all the time that she was being far too inflexible, this woman is impossible to deal with because she keeps asking us to respect the results of the 1990 election. i wonder whether you are concerned that they might be still playing games with the european union and the international community and they will again say: "look, this woman is impossible."
let me say at the outset that i of course fully share mr kinnock's concern about the situation in burma/myanmar. the council shares the principle view expressed by the honourable member in his question, namely that it is self-evident that we must place high demands on burma/myanmar in terms of human rights. i would like to remind you that the union is active in several areas in the fight for human rights in this country. the union is active in the ilo, the un commission on human rights and the un general assembly. a precondition for the contacts i described and which we hope to be able to make during the planned visit with the troika is, of course, that we have full access to all the so-called parties in burma/myanmar. this is obvious, but unfortunately we can now see that the situation in burma/myanmar is also more worrying for other reasons. there are now apparently border conflicts between bangladesh and myanmar, which may also affect the situation inside burma/myanmar. so let me assure you that the council fully shares the member's concern about the situation. it is not at all a question of playing to the burmese government's terms. we have strong demands for full access, both for the nld and for ethnic minorities. the latter should not be forgotten in this context either.
thank you for that very comprehensive answer. as you know, the next ministerial meeting between the eu and the asean countries is due to take place in europe. at the moment we have a ban against travel into any of the eu member states by any member of the military regime in burma and their families. they will, therefore, not be able to take part in that meeting. asean countries are pressuring the union to lift that ban. can i have your assurance that you will not give in to such pressure?
rapporteur. – mr president, i have been given a very generous eight minutes on my report here in front of this packed chamber this evening – i suspect that is because many people find this report quite technical and detailed. whilst drawing up the second liberalisation package in 1989, the council and the commission agreed that community air transport policy had to address the harmonisation of the regulatory framework applicable to civil aviation. subsequently, council regulation 3922/91 was established in which the technical requirements, known as joint aviation requirements, formulated by the jaa, were given the force of law within the community. it is against this background that the joint aviation requirements, known as jar-ops, agreed by the jaa in 1995, are now being transposed into european union law. this in itself has proved to be a difficult exercise. but the community has committed itself to adopting harmonised safety requirements for the operation of aircraft. in this regard, the jar-ops 1 regulation constitutes a good basis from which we can work, with minimum changes, in order to amend the appropriate regulations. however, there are areas in which parliament needs to act. firstly, in regard to cabin crew. operators should have the responsibility for training, but this should be done on a harmonised basis, with a distinct, uniform, european-wide certification system which would be accepted by all member states. there is no doubt in my mind that in most cases the operators are best qualified to organise training. but this should not preclude other qualified organisations from having the possibility to do training, providing, of course, that all training is approved by the national civil aviation authorities. in addition, the cabin crew directive should now be incorporated into this regulation. secondly, the difficult issue of flight time limitation was not addressed by the commission. the relevant part, known as subpart q, is missing. this is nonsensical, because you cannot have a directive which purports to have safety as a major part of it leaving out the issue of duty time for cockpit crews. in this area, the social partners have been trying to reach an agreement for ten years. ten years and no agreement must be a failure by any measurement you wish to adopt. however, the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism recognise that the best people to deal with this problem are indeed the trade unions and the airline operators and, in a spirit of compromise, have agreed to give all sides until 1 may 2001 to reach an agreement that will form the text of a new subpart q. however, should they fail in their endeavours then, at the second reading stage, parliament, through the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, will act and legislate in this area. i am hopeful that the relevant social partners will reach an agreement. i am grateful to them for their current efforts. amendments have been proposed that also look at the problem of cabin baggage. sadly, airlines at present do not strictly enforce cabin baggage regulations, which has led to passengers bringing more and more bags into airline cabins. amendment no 16 addresses this problem, which was highlighted to me by the cabin crew themselves and even some airlines. i find it totally amazing that groups in parliament will vote against this amendment. this is a safety issue, and as their rapporteur i would ask them to seriously reconsider their opinion. this amendment is totally acceptable to all airlines and cabin crew and it in no way stops passengers having cabin baggage. what it does is stop the excessive cabin baggage which has led to passengers being injured from luggage falling out of overhead bins; to passengers having restricted access in case of emergency evacuation procedures and, which i know from my own experience, to aircraft toilets being used to carry bags. whilst i appreciate that meps are amongst the worst culprits for excessive cabin baggage, i would hope their sense of responsibility would enable them to recognise that a problem exists, that this problem compromises safety and that amendment no 16 should be supported. i believe that the report before us is worth supporting. however, in conclusion, i feel i must reiterate the warning i made earlier that we need an agreement on flight time limitation before 1 may from our social partners. if they can deliver that agreement for us, then i believe we will have a document that we can rightly be proud of. i have to say that if they fail in their endeavours, i am sure parliament will feel obliged to act on their behalf.
mr president, as mentioned in 1989, the council and the commission agreed that they had to address the harmonisation of the regulatory framework applicable to civil aviation in order to maintain a high level of safety and to ensure fair competition in the internal market. hence, the community adopted council regulation 3922/91. this regulation listed a number of technical requirements – jars – produced by the joint aviation authority. it was not the purpose of this regulation to re-open a debate on the substance of jar: the purpose was to ensure harmonisation. in addition, it should be recognised that jar-ops has been implemented on a national basis and is applicable to european countries outside the eu. therefore changes must be kept to a minimum as there cannot be two different sets of operational regulations in force across europe. the commission's original proposal highlighted four areas which were found to be incompatible in eu law: exemptions, leasing, registration and cabin crew training. unfortunately, the debate so far has centred on cabin baggage and flight time limitations for flight crew. on the first point – cabin baggage – the amendments are anti-competitive and cannot apply to third-country carriers. sufficient regulation is already in place, which does not allow on board hand baggage which cannot be safely stowed – i can vouch for that as a cabin crew member for 26 years. on my second point – flight time limitations, which are already highly regulated and agreed through national governments – civil aviation is now included in working time regulation. irrespective of the decision taken on 1 may, this issue would have to be referred back to national governments for further discussion. it is not for parliament to legislate on flight time limitations. finally, i believe that in future safety and highly technical reports such as this should be subject to a simplified procedure in order to process necessary changes more speedily.
mr president, first of all i thank the rapporteur for her splendid work on behalf of us all and also thank mr vatanen for his contribution, speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. i fully endorse many of the points he made, not least in respect of blood-alcohol limits. in fact there are only two points that i wish to make this evening. they relate to safer car fronts and the very important issue of blood alcohol. on safer car fronts, i think it is worth pointing out how clearly the rapporteur has made the case for the commissioner to come forward with a directive. in fact this commissioner pledged to this house in january last year, a year ago, that we would have a directive on safer car fronts. a year on there is no directive. what we have in february is a hearing. more talk. no action. meanwhile, two thousand people in the last year have needlessly, unnecessarily lost their lives because the commission would rather talk than act. i hope tonight and tomorrow the commission listens to the vote of this house and decides to proceed with its commitment to have a directive on safer car fronts. no more talk, please. let us see some action. and, indeed, the same is true for blood alcohol. we have had talk on this issue, year in, year out. we all know that ten thousand people a year in europe are killed in drink-related crashes. we must tackle that particular problem. but i find it highly ironic, and i am sure the timing is not coincidental, that on the very day that we are debating blood alcohol, drink driving, road safety, the day before this parliament is to vote on drink driving, the commissioner has already made her mind up. she has issued a recommendation on drink driving. it would have been nice, would it not, for the commissioner to have at least listened to the debate, learned what the outcome of the vote was tomorrow, before she decided to pre-empt the parliamentary procedures and issue this recommendation. we know a recommendation, alas, is simply not worth the paper it is written on. member states need and support clear guidance. we believe it is time for the commissioner to get tough on drunk drivers and drink driving, to come forward with a directive to reduce the limit to 50 mg. in the united kingdom, which has traditionally had a good record, we have sadly seen over the christmas period a rise in the numbers of people drinking and driving. in my own region, in some parts of my region, 17% of drivers tested were above the uk legal limit of 80 mg. it is quite clear that we need action. indeed the british government is asking for a solution at european level, in a european context. so all i make is a very simple request to the commissioner tonight to listen to the debate and to heed the vote tomorrow.
the commission is aware of the seriousness of the situation in the member states, and it is aware of the seriousness of the problems which have arisen in the member states. i would also like to thank all the honourable members who have spoken, who have made their views known and who have enriched this debate. in response to a request from the european parliament, i would remind you that the commission presented a communication on road safety last march, which listed a number of concrete measures to be implemented in the next few years, namely the last two years of implementation of the second action programme on road safety. i would like to stress that, in general, i fully agree with the report and also with the resolution that concludes it, both with regard to the current action programme, which will be completed shortly, and the future road safety programme which the commission plans to present in the coming months. i also hope that the european union will have an effective and lasting policy to reduce the number of accidents, which is absolutely unacceptable. the first step will be to implement the last priority measures set out in the road safety programme currently under way, and in particular to propose that the obligation to install speed limiters be applied to a greater number of lorries, in particular by reducing the tonnage from which this type of action is required. the exchange of information on black spots and techniques to reduce them should also be encouraged and, in general, road infrastructure safety should be increased and measures should be taken to improve the front of vehicles in the event of collisions with vulnerable road users. and within road improvements, the current guardrails, which are extremely aggressive with cyclists and motorcyclists, will have to be designed differently. in a second stage, a more systematic approach will have to be adopted with a view to the future action programme, setting quantified objectives at european level, to be drawn up in collaboration with the states, in order to achieve greater effectiveness and complementarity between the measures adopted in brussels and those established at national level. because it is clear that the setting of specific objectives - as we have seen in the countries where they have been set - is a stimulus and has a psychological effect of incitement for the authorities which leads to better control and, therefore, to a reduction in accidents. however, i do not intend to go into the points on which we agree - you know them from the communication - but i would like to go a little further on the reasons why there are two points of disagreement. the first is alcoholism. the honourable members are quite right. the written procedure on the recommendation for a maximum blood alcohol level of 0.5 was completed yesterday or the day before yesterday when it was adopted by the commission. the date is pure chance. it was in the march communication. do not think, ladies and gentlemen, that there has been any machination on anyone's part. i thought this was a little bit further along. i'm sorry about that. do not think that the date has been chosen on the basis of this debate, at all. but i do want to explain why a proposal for a directive is not being put forward. this is not done for two fundamental reasons. first of all, i have to say that britain, one of the countries where the alcohol content is above the 0.5 we recommend - as mr watts mentioned a moment ago - is the second country with the lowest number of accidents in the european union after sweden. if britain had a maximum of 0.2 instead of 0.8, then perhaps instead of being the second country it would be the first or have many fewer accidents. i don't know, man. what i mean is that it is a fact, an objective fact, with 0.8, britain is the second country with the lowest number of accidents within the union. i'm not recommending 0.8, but 0.5. the fact is that it is not enough to recommend or to require compliance with a blood alcohol level if the national authorities do not then adequately monitor the reality of that blood alcohol content. and i would say to the honourable members that if some member states do not control blood alcohol at present, because we are simply going down to 0.5, i doubt we will get better results. we need to get better control from the authorities. secondly, there are customs, habits, reasons which lead me to believe that this is the classic issue which must be left to the realm of subsidiarity, and that is why we are making only a 0.5 recommendation. i understand that you have a different view - i have seen that - and of course the truth is that there has not been a sufficient majority in the council to take such an initiative. if all the member states suddenly agree, they can easily, among other things, put the 0.5 in their countries. do not tell me that the united kingdom is asking for a european directive to solve a problem in britain because i cannot understand it. well, let them put 0.5 in britain. why do we have to force them? if the united kingdom wants to do that and we already have a recommendation, let it follow it. as far as the front of cars is concerned, i have clearly heard the criticism made by mr watts: the commission prefers to talk and not to act. i can't take that criticism. the commission wants to act in the most effective way and sometimes delaying an initiative for a few months can, in its real effects, be a much faster method of carrying it out. and we've given the auto industry six months to get a deal. this is not 2002, your honor, it's june 2001. and in that sense, i want to tell you that this initiative does not depend only on me but also on the commissioner responsible for industry, mr liikanen, and that is what we agreed. i do not mean that we have refused, let alone rejected, the need to make regulations on car fronts which are more respectful of people in accidents with unprotected bodies, but simply that we want to be even more effective by obtaining the support of the motor industry. as regards the future action programme for the period 2002-2010, we are open a priori to all the ideas contained in the motion for a resolution. and i, your honor, am even willing to reconsider the 0.5 issue. i want to tell you that i will not take a hard line on this matter. i don't think that's the big deal. much more important is the problem of control. i am counting on your cooperation, your help, your support, and i congratulate the rapporteur once again.
mr president, my name was mentioned. it is important for the record to clarify the situation in the uk relating to the uk government's view on blood alcohol. i am sure that the dg on transport and energy has a copy of the uk's road safety strategy that was published in march 2000. it makes it very clear that the new government in the united kingdom is committed to a solution within a european context. i believe you would now find a much more positive response to a proposal for a directive than perhaps was the case with the previous administration.
mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr costa, for his excellent work on what is a very difficult, detailed but important dossier. congestion, pollution, gridlock, global warming, floods, freak weather. is it the end of the world? no, it is just rush-hour in my region. the same problems are occurring in regions and member states across the european union. we all have the same transport crisis and there may be common solutions to these common problems. we must all accept the fact, for example, that the fastest growing source of global warming gases is the transport sector. something surely, colleagues, must be done. however, as we all know, everyone wants someone else to do it. that is our challenge. i hope mr costa's work, his report and the conclusions we will reach tomorrow will provide a framework within which we can begin to tackle these problems. we must promote better understanding of our common problems and, indeed, find common solutions to them across the european union, but on the basis of consensus and mutual understanding. secondly, we must promote an exchange of ideas. many localities and regions have excellent ideas, and that knowledge and information must be disseminated throughout the european union. indeed, that is my third point: europe has a key role to play here in disseminating best practice as to how best we tackle the transport challenge. fourthly and finally, in terms of what europe's contribution can be within the framework of this particular initiative, i hope that governments, local authorities and those implementing taxes and charges can do so within a framework that is developed and integrated at a european level, and do it together. however, i want to say that there is great concern and anxiety about this particular commission initiative and, indeed, about mr costa's report, although i personally feel that many of those concerns were fully addressed in committee where, i know, there was widespread cross-party support for mr costa's work. there were concerns, for example, about subsidiarity. but that was more than adequately addressed when we said to the commission: you have a key role to play in trying to pull this research together. but, clearly, member states and their role will be fully respected in terms of their rights to determine their own taxation levels. indeed, the work we have done has already gained and secured widespread support. i can refer to a letter from the organisation that represents the motoring clubs across europe, including, for example, the aa and rac, who are broadly sympathetic and supportive of our work, because they know that unless europe takes a lead on this issue, unless we begin pulling together the best of the ideas from across the european union, then the cities, towns and rural areas, will continue to suffer from unacceptable levels of congestion and pollution. i commend mr costa's report, his work and, above all, his ability to bring us all together in a single common objective of trying to tackle the transport crisis.
mr president, we must make it very clear that this is not about the eu raising taxes or imposing a new tax over and above the existing national taxes. it is an attempt to find a common set of criteria, of cost components for the transport infrastructure, and minimising substantial discrepancies across the eu. however, it is up to the member states to set and levy charges, albeit in a common framework. at present, revenue is not earmarked for transport infrastructure. quite often, i know in the uk, it is used for bolstering government coffers. i am sure it is the same in other eu member states. transport costs should be paid by the user, but governments should not charge rural users if there is no public transport, and this report makes that very clear. this report is about a level playing field: not to charge more but to charge more efficiently. hauliers in the uk complain that they are at a competitive disadvantage, and that is true. non-uk truck drivers do not pay uk road tax. other eu countries' average is ten times lower htv taxes. the same applies to diesel fuel: it is three times more expensive in the uk. that leads to distortion of competition across the eu. instead of the uk eurosceptics criticising this report, they should welcome it because it will do a lot to help our hard-pressed hauliers.
mr president, also on the question of the security of the house, you will recall that on 28 november 2000, the turkish foreign minister addressed the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy of this house and he was interrupted by demonstrators. this was a cause for great concern. at the time, we drew the attention of the president to this matter and she promised she would look into it and find out what the circumstances were, how the demonstrators had got into parliament, and take appropriate steps to ensure that such things did not happen again. in the context of what we have been discussing, the security of this house, i wonder if you would follow this up and see what steps have been taken to improve security and report on that particular incident last november.
mr president, i wish to congratulate mrs karamanou on a very good and comprehensive report. one of its main themes is the need for an integrated strategy. if we are to tackle the very serious imbalance of representation of men and women, not only in the political sphere but also in decision-making at all levels in society, this is essential. we should remember that just last year the finnish presidency looked at nine sectors in the member states, including national, regional and local parliaments, the civil service and the supreme courts. wherever it looked it found women were under-represented. the problems have been recognised for a long time, but progress on solving them has been slow. we repeat ourselves constantly in these reports, calling for better statistics and training, awareness campaigns to encourage more women into politics in the same way as they have already very often become key players in their own communities and local groups, and for measures to make it easier for men and to women to balance work and family life. we have to keep on saying these things because they are needed. but, in addition, we need positive action, such as quotas, to make a real difference. this report does not dictate what should be done in individual member states, but calls upon the governments to look at their own situation and take action to improve the balance of women and men, using legislative means, if necessary, as some have already done. where these measures have been used, they have been successful, not only in getting more women elected to parliament but also in raising awareness, providing good role models for other women – girls in particular – and improving debate and decision-making all around. so the group of the greens/european free alliance will support all the conclusions of the report because it will contribute towards achieving equality and real democracy.
mr president, commissioner, may i start by declaring an interest, or two interests, in this issue. i have an interest in a forestry business in new zealand, inherited from my father, so that gives me a practical interest. more recently i visited finland to see the forestry industry at work as the guest of cepi, the confederation of european paper industries. so you see the strong finnish theme in this report continues even with me. can i welcome this communication and express my pleasure at its emphasis on the importance of this industry. like the rapporteur and other colleagues i recognise that forestry is a very important industry, important for the economy and important for the environment. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report. in itself it has made quite a contribution towards the consumption of paper and this is to be welcomed, even if our colleagues on the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy had to make it a little bit longer than he would wish. better to say too much about forestry than too little. i note with interest his reference to telecommunications and the changes in the shape of the communication industry. i happen to believe that despite all these wonderful aspects of modern technology, we will continue to need paper for our reading, because it is the medium that most people are still comfortable with and i certainly am. also, of course, we shall continue to need timber for all the other uses to which it is put, such as in construction and other possible new uses. the rapporteur and the committee on agriculture draw attention to the potential for research into new uses of timber. can i sound one note of warning. it is a little unrealistic to ask the commission to ensure that paper prices in europe are competitive. i think that might be stretching the commissioner's powers a little bit. i see he is smiling so perhaps he agrees with me. nevertheless, the commission has to ensure that fair competition takes place. that is the key issue here, rather than trying to favour our industry. this is a valuable, sustainable industry, very important to the economy of europe and to our environment, and this is a very timely report.
in writing. - i wholeheartedly support the report by my socialist colleague, who calls for further measures to deal with the problem of road deaths and to promote road safety in europe. shocking statistics illustrate the seriousness of the problem. it is simply unacceptable that every year 42,000 people are killed and more than 1.7 million injured on the roads of the european union. of course, the figures vary from country to country. portugal and greece have no less than 243 and 212 deaths per million inhabitants respectively, while at the other end of the spectrum, sweden and the united kingdom still have only 60 and 61 deaths respectively. every person killed is one too many. each case represents a personal tragedy that tears a community apart. we must improve road safety through safety equipment in vehicles, campaigns for seat belts and improved road signs. the british labour government is at the forefront of this fight, leading a campaign against drunk driving. the lives of our fellow citizens, especially our young people, are too precious to be neglected.
mr president, there are people here who are old enough not to have forgotten the extraordinary and harrowing reports that came out of cambodia in 1975, with aerial pictures of a deserted capital as the khmer rouge, their leaders schooled in the violent tenets of french revolutionary tradition and possessing a mixture of political idealism and mass psychopathology, moved two million people from the city to the countryside to begin a new society in year zero under the leadership of the "great" pol pot. the sick were dragged from the hospitals or left to die. what followed was to shock the world. the human rights abuses of bosnia, kosovo, sierra leone, chile, angola are dwarfed by the sheer scale of the atrocities that took place under the khmer rouge. the deliberate deaths of between one and two million people constituted a real genocide. perhaps, to be accurate, we should call it a sectocide for the intention was not to wipe out a race but an entire class, with victims selected on the basis of whether they were educated, whether their hands showed signs of manual work, or even whether they wore spectacles. it is not surprising therefore that following pol pot's death and the defeat of the khmer rouge, there should be a need for some kind of national catharsis through the application of justice and a calling to account of those responsible. personally i hope that the prosecutions will not be restricted to the top 20 leaders but be extended to those who daily brutalised and executed their victims. if the cambodian people want these trials to proceed, and the political situation is sufficiently stable to permit them, then it is only natural that the international community, through the un, should wish to support them in that aim. we should beware, however, of imposing justice on other states, especially if such proceedings might unravel a political truce or accommodation that has brought peace or stability to the region and promises a better future. amnesties are sometimes necessary if unpalatable. in cambodia, though, it looks as though the people and government are ready to take the risk of overturning previous amnesties in order to secure justice. if that proves to be the case we should wish them well in this venture.
mr president, the recent events in turkish prisons are tragic by any standards and it is an enormous pity that the situation had been allowed to deteriorate over such a long period with the almost inevitable consequences. however, these events must be put in context and we should acknowledge the resolve of the turkish authorities to introduce a more human, acceptable, and indeed controllable, prison regime. as relations between the european union and turkey develop in an increasingly positive manner, we need to take a measured approach in our comments on turkey's problems. at the same time our relationship with the turkish authorities should be sufficiently robust that we can make justifiable criticisms. i have to say that in the united kingdom in the past we too have had difficulties in maintaining the right prison regime for those convicted or detained for terrorist offences. we too have had situations where terrorists have more or less had total control over their accommodation and recreation areas and we too have had to deal with the tragedy of hunger strikes. it is not easy. the prisons themselves take on symbolic significance. the situation in the prisons becomes yet another facet of the armed struggle against the established government. we should keep this perspective in mind. turning to the resolution itself we rightly deplore recent events but my feeling is that we should be more welcoming and encouraging concerning the reforms initiated by the turkish government. after all turkey is responding to the demands that we placed upon her to bring her prisons more into line with european systems. we should remember that many of the inmates are revolutionaries who will accept nothing short of control of their situation. of course a prison regime must be humane and there must be mechanisms to enable prisoners to express legitimate grievances. this is in everyone's interests but we cannot expect governments to negotiate with prisoners over their conditions and regimes. the current problems started because the armed groups were not prepared to concede control over the prisons to the authorities. the response by the security forces is not the cause but the consequence of the problem. the turkish security forces had to retake the prisons by force facing organised armed opposition and the circumstances of many deaths is not clear while of course every death is a tragedy. i know that the turkish authorities are greatly saddened by recent events. they are also thoroughly committed to reform and open to close cooperation with the commission and with the union and its member states on reform of the penal system. they see this as part of the natural process of adopting the acquis. we should rightly express our concern at what has happened and that the situation was allowed to deteriorate so far. let us now offer all possible professional advice and assistance and encourage rapid reform without giving further opportunities to undemocratic forces who seek to overthrow the turkish government and frustrate turkey's progress towards membership of the european union.
mr president, this joint motion for a resolution on the ratification of the rome treaty to establish the permanent international criminal court comes at an opportune moment. only yesterday in this house we debated our priorities for the united nations human rights commission in geneva. the swedish prime minister once again reiterated the importance of human rights during the swedish presidency. the discussion this afternoon is yet another vivid reminder of injustices around the world. therefore it must follow, and i hope the house will agree, that if we are serious about the human rights of men, women and children, then we must have a permanent international criminal court to prosecute those who carry out or commission crimes against humanity. we need a criminal court with international jurisdiction, which can independently judge those accused of such atrocities. only with complete determination to implement the rome treaty will we be able to end the impunity of the perpetrators of these crimes and contribute to the deterrence and prevention of such crimes in the future. as we have heard, 139 governments have signed the rome treaty yet sadly only 27 have ratified it. sixty such ratifications are needed for the treaty to enter into force and for the court to be set up. therefore i believe it is imperative that the member states set an example. already italy, france, belgium, luxembourg, spain, germany, austria and finland have notably and honourably ratified the treaty. it is now time for the remaining member states of the union to follow suit. cynicism is an easy option and i will not indulge in it. i believe we should welcome the signing of the treaty on 31 december by the united states of america and we should also welcome the yugoslav federation signing the treaty on 19 december 2000. we must now call upon those parliaments to ratify the treaty. nonetheless, at the same time we must urge all states to continue to support the work of the international criminal tribunals for rwanda and former yugoslavia. history teaches us that we must never forget. therefore, look back across the last millennium. look now across the world as it is and remember that the price of freedom is eternal vigilance. future generations will never forgive us if we turn our minds away from those who have suffered such terrifying atrocities and who continue to suffer as i speak. words are not enough. the time for action is now. sign the rome treaty on the icc and thereby signal our commitment and our challenge to the rest of the world. as co-author i urge the house and the council to support this motion.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on petitions. – mr president, i am grateful for the opportunity to speak for the committee on petitions. this is not the only issue concerning legally resident third-country nationals where we have a problem concerning the appropriate legal base. i am thinking, for example, of the extensions of the 1408/71 regulation concerning the coordination of social security systems. the tampere summit in 1999 spoke of according similar rights to third-country nationals as those enjoyed by eu citizens. yet we still have those who wish to view them as short-term travellers, rather than as people who have much contribute to the union. otherwise why would our governments be so keen to encourage inward investment from american and asian companies? we believe we need political coherence in our policy-making in this area. the lack of such coherence partly explains the argument over the legal base. the committee on petitions supports the view taken by the rapporteur, mr deprez, and thanks him for his diligence in this matter. it was our committee's view that we could reduce the number of such disagreements with the council in future by reducing the number of individual national initiatives in this area and looking instead for commission proposals which go through an initial vetting procedure. i know that the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs has already raised this with the swedish presidency and we must hope it bears fruit. on the substantive issue, while being aware that not all member states are involved in the schengen agreement, of course, it seemed to our committee that we should bring the rights of third-country nationals into line with those of citizens. this is particularly important where partners, not parents as it says in my explanatory statement for some very strange reason, are affected by a different legal status, and we have had a number of petitions on these issues which we added to our opinion. we felt it was also important to support the position of mr deprez, as the need for this proposal itself is more the result of bureaucratic delay than decision-making. it is our hope and expectation also that the committee on petitions will automatically be asked for an opinion in good time on such issues in future.
mr president, i absolutely agree with mr deprez. this is a really important issue which goes to the whole heart of why we have the european union. the fundamental principles of the union are freedom, respect for democracy, human rights, and if you remove freedom of movement, if you stigmatise people because they have applied for a visa or they hold a particular type of visa, i believe you undermine the fundamental principles of the union. that is why i welcome the broad thrust of mr deprez's report. it is a well-considered report and, as he said quite rightly, it is relevant to thousands of people. but even if it was relevant to only one person, we would still be acting, i am afraid, years, decades, after the time when we should have acted. it is, as he said, a means to achieve a goal and i welcome his legal basis of article 62(3). i share mr deprez's concerns and his amendments afford freedom of movement for those awaiting a definitive visa. i welcome his refinement of the french proposals. there is a real need for these proposals. we must treat people fairly and with dignity and remove the stigma of visa stays. some member states will have reservations, but we must recognise that change is essential and that people must not be penalised in terms of their freedom of movement by unjustifiable and cumbersome administrative procedures. i congratulate mr deprez on an intelligent and reasoned approach, with measures that facilitate freedom of movement for third-country nationals on member state territories for a maximum period of three months. this is a guarantee. we should welcome it and therefore welcome his report. finally, perhaps this report will at some time enable us in this chamber and in the union to have a rational and reasonable debate on immigration and visa issues, decoupled from the ugliness of nationalism and xenophobia. i welcome mr deprez's report.
madam president, thank you very much for that message of condolence, which is what i wanted to talk about concerning india.
madam president, i rise concerning rules 7(1), 7(2) and 8(4) of our rules of procedure to ask whether you or your services have received a communication from the british government informing you that the conservative party has asked to change one of three names on its list, which would remove the name of someone elected in the east midlands region in the european elections last june. the change would be to remove the name of mr william newton dunn and replace it with mr javed arain, the fourth-ranked conservative, who is here with us today in the public gallery. you will no doubt know that the system of proportional representation was used for the first time in the uk in the last european elections and the people who voted in these elections voted for a party whose views they agreed with, not for an individual. perhaps if no communication has been forthcoming you could contact the british government to ask for their official, legal position. finally, under rule 7(3), i ask that the committee responsible, mentioned in this rule, look into the credentials of mr newton dunn to see whether he has, in fact, proceeded in accordance with the act of 20 september 1976, as detailed in our rules of procedure.
madam president, rule 2 of our rules of procedure says that we all sit here as individuals, not as agents of political parties and we do not take orders from outside. (applause from the centre and left)the essence of democracy is that individuals have guaranteed rights against the state. the conservatives, i am sorry to say, are now wishing to introduce a new doctrine that political parties have power over individuals. that is the beginning of totalitarianism and that is why i left them. (applause from the centre and left)
madam president, mr newton dunn is perfectly correct when he draws attention to rule 2, but what he forgets is that the elections in 1999 took place under proportional representation. no elector voted for mr newton dunn, or indeed for me or for mr heaton-harris. they voted for a party list and mr newton dunn represented himself as fully in support of the conservative party, its leader and its european policy. he has now completely abrogated that position and he is therefore denying the democratic rights of the voters of the east midlands, over 40% of whom voted conservative. i call on mr newton dunn to resign.
madam president, it is the case that, although the united kingdom electoral system is a list system, the names of those on the list appear in the order in which electors are invited to vote for them. therefore, it is the case that we are here as individuals as well as representing a political position. that is very important and it should be known that the united kingdom conservative party was among those parties that voted for the provision that names should be on the ballot, not off the ballot.
commission. - mr hatzidakis, naturally i agree with your diagnosis. i designed it with the same spirit and the same foundation as you. i would inform the house that if the 12 candidate countries now joined the union, the community average gdp would fall by 18 points. this would have the mathematical, mechanical effect of overriding, in one fell swoop, regions which are always in difficulty. so it wouldn't be fair. we will have to find a solution for these regions, which would thus be mechanically placed above the community average. you tell me, mr president hatzidakis, that we will need more money. at this stage i can only speak on a very personal basis. we are not yet discussing the future financial perspective. i just gave you a hint. and i've already stepped up in a personal capacity. i think that the figure of 0.45% of community gdp, which will be reached in 2006 in the context of the berlin decisions, if we add the structural funds, the cohesion fund, the pre-accession appropriations, sapard, phare, ispa, plus the appropriations which have been set aside to deal with the first accessions in 2004, for example, all of this makes up 0.45% of gdp. for me, it's a point of reference. and to go further in my answer, i think frankly that if we have a dozen more countries in the state they are in today, we could not have a credible policy if we were below that percentage. that's all i can say today.
madam president, i should like to thank the commissioner for the open manner in which he chose to present his report in plenary. it is the beginning of a debate – an honest debate – that we want to be involved in as parliamentarians. the commissioner and mr hatzidakis said that regional disparities will become twice as great. the challenge to achieve cohesion will be greater: we have an unprecedented expansion of the union and we still have poor regions. there is a multi-million euro question which is, to use the words of a former french commission president: “have we got the means to match our ambitions?” that is not to say that the means have to be financial, but we must also look at other policies. it is clear that there will be a cap on budgetary contributions. therefore i ask you, commissioner barnier and your colleagues, to look at the opportunities offered by other policies, in particular the real and tangible benefits of involving the private sector in regenerating our regions. can you be sure, commissioner, that an enlightened view will be taken, in particular by mr monti, the commissioner responsible for competition, to ensure that we have private sector innovative approaches to reducing regional disparities across the union?
commission - mr president, i am the one who is embarrassed that it has taken so long, but i am especially sorry for the members of parliament who were not able to put their questions. but i remain available, as you know, in the weeks and months ahead to continue this dialogue. mr cunha, if you read the report, you will see that we are saying that the cap, which has as its objective production, export capacity and sufficiency, has not really played as much a part as might have been expected in this policy of territorial cohesion, particularly because in the regions which need this cohesion the size of farms is much smaller. i myself have therefore emphasized that we must - as i said earlier - have better synergies through the common agricultural policy. perhaps one way would be to increase in future what has already started in berlin, namely the second pillar of the cap on rural development. mrs darras, i do not think that we will need to renegotiate the financial perspective for cohesion policy. what was planned in berlin seems to me to be correct. to cope with this, we had already planned for 2002 - we know that there will be no new countries joining in 2002 or 2003 - sufficient funds have been provided to cope with these accessions, and so i do not think that we will need new financial perspectives. you mentioned that there might be changes in the criteria. we could continue the dialogue, mrs darras, but what i want to observe is that when we work from the standard of living, from the gdp per capita, we are not far from the truth because we observe that with the lowest standards of living we have the highest unemployment rate, we have the most degraded environmental conditions, we have the lowest internet access rate. so, somewhere, when you photograph the standard of living per capita, you have, i think - and it is no accident that my predecessor mrs wulf-mathies and all the other members who have been thinking about these questions have agreed on this criterion - you have a good photograph of the reality of the regions. now, you know very well that we can cross this criterion with other elements and in particular unemployment but i would like to keep this criterion because it seems to me to be objective. mr nogueira, i do not have time to participate in a debate on globalisation and globalisation. i have nevertheless, as you have understood, referred to the new context of cohesion policy linked to this globalisation and globalisation which poses the risk that jacques delors and others correctly diagnosed some 15 years ago, in the name of which they proposed this cohesion policy. in the same single market, there is a risk that wealth, trade and people will always be concentrated in the same places and that the poorest regions will become increasingly poor and peripheral. this risk in the single market is aggravated in a europe living in the age of globalisation. that is why i think we need more cohesion and more means of cohesion in the future. mr rack, yes, i am prepared to discuss with you new methods, particularly the new policy on objective 2. i wonder, for example, about the usefulness or the intelligence of this zoning for objective 2 from brussels where i am obliged to certify, in agreement with the member states, that such a district, such a municipality, such a village must or must not be in objective 2. i do not think that this bureaucracy is useful and that is why the policy of objective 2, which concerns the regions outside those which are most backward, could be simpler, more decentralized, with instruments at the service of community policies or at the service of the territorial dimension, cities, mountains, islands, border regions or cross-cutting objectives such as social cohesion, the fight against extreme poverty. i would like to think about such instruments, which are decentralised in their management by the states and which do not sometimes give the citizens that feeling of bureaucracy. mrs torres marques, i cannot go any further in my answer on the financial perspective. i have not forgotten to mention the outermost regions. i even quoted them in my opening remarks. there's a specific paragraph on these regions. i am working very hard for these seven outermost regions, as mr prodi has asked. that is why the commission published an important report a few weeks ago on the adjustments or derogations in structural aid, agricultural aid, fisheries aid which have generally satisfied the officials in charge of these outermost regions and i think that under article 299 of the treaty, special treatment will have to be preserved for these outermost regions - because they are outermost regions, because they are our furthest active frontiers in the indian ocean, in the atlantic or near the americas. mrs hedkvist petersen, thank you for noting the importance which i too attach to the word 'solidarity'. the title of this report, ladies and gentlemen, is 'european unity, solidarity of peoples, diversity of territories'. that is the title we wanted to give to this report and, as you will see when you read it in detail, i am referring - because that is my concern - to the alignment of community policies with regional development and cohesion, particularly as regards research and the social agenda, while observing that as regards social policy, the member states, the governments, naturally retain their powers. i am working within the framework of the community's present powers.
- thank you, chief. the debate is closed.
- the joint debate on the following reports is scheduled for the next part-session: - a5-0008/01 by mrs muscardini, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the common strategy of the european union adopted by the feira european council on 19 june 2000 with regard to the mediterranean region (c5-0510/2000 - 2000/2247 (cos)); - a5-0009/01 by mr naïr, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the communication from the commission to the european parliament and the council on preparing the fourth meeting of euro-mediterranean foreign ministers: 'a new impetus for the barcelona process' (com (2000) 497 - c5-0630/2000 - 2000/2294 (cos)).
mr president, the mediterranean is the cradle of european civilisation. the legacy of ancient egypt, greece and rome shaped our culture, our literature, our very understanding of the common european heritage. around the mediterranean the three monotheistic religions – judaism, christianity, islam – were founded and fostered and spread throughout the known world. our debt to the mediterranean is not only historical and cultural, it informs our common interest today in enlargement. it is true that covers mainly countries from central and eastern europe, but the candidate countries include the two famous mediterranean island peoples: the maltese and the cypriots. i very much hope that the mediterranean programme and the enlargement process may be seen as complementary and not conflicting. it is suitable that today the presidency should be manned by mr danielsson from nordic europe. an example of north-south solidarity was when prime minister aznar attended the gdansk commemoration celebrating the foundation of the solidarnosc movement. i hope that improved relations between the eu and north africa may result from the mediterranean programme. today we wait for the outcome of the lockerbie trial from a scottish court in the netherlands, but i understand it is the intention of the british to foster, in future, better diplomatic and other relations with, for example, libya. i have a question for the council. could mr danielsson confirm that the eu’s mediterranean programme is coordinated with the enlargement process to which the presidency attaches so much importance? i wonder if it might be possible for the commissioner in his reply to dwell on the criticisms of underspending sometimes levelled at the meda programme. is it the case that the commission stands ready when necessary to give administrative support in the formulation of suitable programmes, as they did in the past when i wrote a report on the alfama and mouraria areas of lisbon? is it the case that, if there were to be underspending, the money could be relocated? finally, concerning paragraph 54 of the naïr report, could the commissioner also confirm that the two mediterranean candidate countries might be able to participate in the euromed heritage programme.
mr president, it is very appropriate that we are debating these two very good reports only a few days before the euro-med forum, which is due to sit next week. various speakers have mentioned the importance of that forum, which must be raised over the coming years if we are to get the barcelona process back on track and expanding. i would like to speak mainly on the funding for the euro-med programme, for meda, and say i am disappointed at the very low take-up. the report mentions that is due to poor administration and procedures within the commission. a former colleague of mine, mr patten, is doing his best to make sure that we do get spending in the right sort of areas – efficiently, effectively, and to meet the needs of the various countries. i am first vice-chairman of the delegation for malta. they are not allowed to bid for as much work as they want. we need more transparency in the spending that is agreed upon. we need to know where the money is going and – very importantly indeed – we need a better audit trail of where the money has gone because a lot of talk in the media is about misuse and money going down the wrong avenues for the wrong reasons. that is an abuse of the position that we hold here. i expect to see a better relationship between parliament and the commission in the interest of all the countries in the southern mediterranean area. there is a great deal of work to be done, it can be done and, indeed, it must be done.
mr president, i would like to counsel, if i may, mr solana and my very good friend commissioner patten to exercise caution in relation to the middle east at this present time. i say that, not because i am scarcely an enthusiast for a european foreign policy, but because i believe that at this present time in israel we are in a very difficult situation. we have an election and i must remind the house that the state of israel is the only democracy that exists in the region and that is something that is worth noting. we have an election for a prime minister which will be crucial in relation to the future of the peace process so we must take care not to be seen as interventionist or interfering. i remind the house, because i gather there is much fear that mr sharon may be elected prime minister, that the peace process in the middle east, from the israeli point of view, has always advanced under the israeli right and it was menachem begin who started the rapprochement with egypt. i ask the house and i ask the commission and the council to proceed with caution. i ask the european union to do what it does best. it has an influence over the palestinians and it should exercise that influence. it should be asking chairman arafat, for example, why the palestinians permit in their textbooks the sort of anti-semitism which i hoped we had long put to one side in this world. we should be asking chairman arafat to ensure that the aid that goes to the palestinians goes to those who really need it. so, in small measures and not in large – because the united states must take the lead in these matters – the european union can play a role, but it should not exaggerate its importance. the role is with the parties themselves, assisted by the great republic across the atlantic.
mr president, members who have been elected to this house have been elected by people of europe to speak for europe, to determine what role europe can play on the international scene. i am encouraged by the statement of mr danielsson, the confidence of mr solana and the excellent analysis of commissioner patten of the situation on the ground. i was horrified to witness in the delegation last week the extent to which palestine is a military occupation. people of europe have no idea of this. it is unbelievable that there is a situation where the palestinian legislative council cannot even meet. mayors of towns like hebron were not able to escort us to places that our ambassador had arranged for us to see. there is wrong on both sides, of course there is. what i am against is the 33 years of negotiations which have led to nowhere, no solution, no peace. therefore, i believe that we in the european union should take a more active role: supportive – not to replace the americans in the peace process – but to support and give confidence to both sides that we are a fair, just, impartial broker. we should also support the united nations and the resolutions, because if un resolutions are to be respected by countries like iraq and cuba, then they must also be respected by israel and the palestinians. that is something that i hope mr solana and the council will impress on both sides: if there are international agreements where there is international law, then both sides should abide by them. (applause)
mr president, the european union should combat the illegal drugs trade and support a genuine peace process in colombia but it cannot, must not, should not, do so by cooperating with plan colombia. this is a barely disguised military strategy, sponsored by the us, whose effect will simply be to escalate the conflict, to aggravate the abuse of human rights and at best displace drug production. three quarters of the us contribution to the package is military assistance; only 6% will focus on human rights and only 4% will be put towards helping displaced people. how anyone can argue that this is a plan that will support the peace process is baffling when only 1% of the us contribution is set aside for this specific purpose. plan colombia was not a product of consultation with civil society at a local, national or international level; it was never approved by the colombian congress. it has been the object of opposition in every sector of society, local communities, democratically elected governors, the catholic church, non-governmental organisations. support for it would therefore damage the trust and credibility the eu has earned with its projects and in its relations with local communities. as for aerial spraying, what is proposed is no less than the use of biological weapons. the toxic fungus spray used to kill the coca has been found to have caused fever in local people, to kill cattle and fish and it has been shown to attack the immune system of humans with effects up to and including death. dr mondragon, giving evidence in this parliament earlier this month, showed that the fumigation of 22,000 hectares of illegal crops last year in colombia did not prevent 38,000 hectares of new cultivation because the problem is one of no alternative for the peasant farmers. i welcome tonight, mr danielsson’s statement that european support will be independent. this parliament must support his efforts with swedish ngos behind the scenes to promote the peace process for all parties involved that was started in costa rica. i am very glad that he was representing the council and not mr solana, who scuttled out before the start of the debate, and who so badly misrepresented the eu when at the madrid meeting last july he made a pre-emptive statement in support of plan colombia. i very much welcome commissioner nielson’s commitment tonight to have nothing to do with the military strategy. that is what this parliament calls for, but he should disown the commission press statement of september last year which expressed support for the plan. mr salafranca says there is confusion. there is no confusion. it is not an expression of bad faith in president pastrana and his attempts to pursue the peace process to point out at the same time that he has failed so far to disband the paramilitary groups, to end the abuses by the colombian army or to offer proper protection to human rights defenders, 25 of whom have lost their lives in the last three years. mr salafranca condemns abuses by left-wing and right-wing groups. he is right to do so but we do not give any succour to the guerrillas, whose abuse of human rights we condemn, when we say that over 75% of human rights abuses are caused by the paramilitaries and the army. this plan colombia is a plan for war not a plan for peace and tonight europe rejects it completely.
mr president, just for the record: it is my understanding that, after a careful process of negotiation between the pse and the ppe, the ppe will be withdrawing their resolution. if there is any change to that, this parliament needs to be notified far in advance of tomorrow. secondly, to be absolutely clear and not to extend the debate, at no point did i suggest mr salafranca accused president pastrana of bad faith. but in his attempts to mute criticism of the colombian government, i think he thinks we think that president pastrana has bad faith. we are not suggesting that. he has good faith, but his government has not delivered the goods.
mr president, mr jarzembowski observes in his explanatory statement that we have to strengthen rail transport, to increase the efficiency and competitiveness of railways in order to reverse the downward trend of their share in the market in the last 15 years. he observes that little progress has been made by the member states in implementing the separation of the rail service operations from those of infrastructure management and we do not see in most countries any effective opening-up of the rail market. in the united kingdom considerable credit could well be paid to the former conservative government for effecting just that, a policy which has been continued by the current labour government. however, last october the hatfield train crash took place in hertfordshire, part of the eastern region which i represent in this parliament. four people lost their lives and many were seriously injured. the accident took place on a bend with the train travelling at 115 mph. it appears that the infrastructure authorities were aware of the fracturing of the rail as early as november 1999 and a further report was made in january of last year. no remedial action was taken. the british transport minister, lord mcdonald, has announced there will be no be no public inquiry. however, named members of railtrack, the infrastructure company, and of balfour beatty possibly face manslaughter charges as a result of this accident. i turn to the commissioner, who i am sure is aware of the details of this particular accident, which i would point out is not unique within the european union, and i would hope that she would be able perhaps to dwell on the consequences of the crash. in the united kingdom there has been chaos on our railways, there has been plummeting customer confidence in the rail system, remedial work has caused huge financial investment and railtrack has threatened a delay in work on the euro channel tunnel phase ii programme which is very much part of the integrated european rail system that we all support. i very much hope that the commissioner may be able to give some support to the relevant authorities in the united kingdom. this is not merely a domestic issue. it has european ramifications as far as the channel tunnel work is concerned. it may well be that additional support can be given through the tens programme and i look forward to my discussions with the commissioner on this extremely serious development.
mr president, i want to congratulate mrs mann on her carefully prepared work and have great pleasure in supporting it. the importance, as mrs mann has emphasised and the commission proposed, of a single budget line, is not just about simplifying parliament’s work. it is so that we can properly evaluate and vote on what money we are spending on which projects so that the commission and parliament can jointly consider what is best value for money and how we need to spend money in the future. the emphasis mrs mann has given to the importance of clarity about the division of responsibility between the community and the member states in the field of export promotion is also crucial. there is some sensitivity about this and clarity about the budget line and the legal base are not only going to help us to do our work in a more logical way but also reassure the member states that there is a proper allocation of responsibilities. i want to comment very briefly on two other matters. i was very pleased as president of the delegation between this parliament and the us congress that the transatlantic legislators’ dialogue merited a mention in the budget report. you know, colleagues, how much emphasis this parliament has put on the tld. and mrs mann’s report mentioned, among the many other excellent projects, the european institute in washington supported by the commission. it is just one example, but an excellent one, of how cooperation, not only financial but political, industrial and commercial, can pay very considerable dividends. i am delighted to support mrs mann and as i am finishing my speech with one second to spare, i hope i will receive a bit of applause for that. (laughter)
rapporteur. – mr president, this report concerns the proposed adoption by the european union of the united states’ energy star programme as it applies to office and communication technology equipment. this, colleagues, is not the sexiest title on this week’s agenda, perhaps, but it is directly linked to the future of our planet and to the possibility of even more devastating weather events, mass movements of people and crop failure. our irresponsible and profligate use of energy, with its consequential emissions of c02 and other environmental hazards must stop. ironically enough, it is in the united states, where the energy star scheme originated, that we have recently seen the absurd spectacle of power cuts in california, largely because of the incredible increase in the use of computers and other office equipment with the accompanying need for air-conditioning within a framework of quite bizarre and unwise deregulation. things would have been even worse without the energy star programme. this scheme, which is voluntary, was introduced in 1992 and is now very widespread. it has been officially adopted in australia and japan for example. members may in fact have seen the energy star logo on computers bought in the eu, although this means nothing yet since the technology has to be specially activated, which is done only in the united states. this evening we are discussing the draft regulation which will implement the us/eu agreement on which we shall vote in the next session. it is a voluntary scheme and it is hoped that between now and 2015 savings of 10 terawatt hours and 5 million tonnes of c02 emissions will be achieved in the eu through this scheme. i now enter the world of science fiction and explain that to be energy-efficient, computers must go to sleep, but they must wake up instantly when they are required to do so. when they are asleep their electricity consumption is cut on average from 100 watts to 5 watts. given the number of computers in homes, schools, workplaces, etc., you can see how the savings mount up from the good sleeping habits of those machines. until now, the european union has produced its own energy efficient standards, often mandatory and the european parliament has taken seriously its responsibility as a co-legislator to see that such standards are sufficiently stringent. that is why there would be very serious reservations from parliament about adopting this us energy star scheme if that were to be our only measure and especially if there were no provisions in the agreement for regular review of the results, with the objective, of course, of always being at the leading edge of the relevant technologies. luckily that is not the case however, and the commission is to be given powers to negotiate improvements in the technical specifications. and it has been made quite clear to the us authorities in a side letter to the agreement that the european parliament, which would have been a co-legislator with the council for similar measures at european level, will be consulted by the commission on matters concerning technical specifications. in the amendments to my report, we make it clear that further measures are certainly needed, including the glaringly obvious one of switching the machines off sometimes and withdrawing particularly inefficient machines from the market, either voluntarily or, if necessary, with legislation. i am quite sure that the council will see the wisdom of these amendments and of the regular and earlier monitoring of the energy star scheme as one, but only one, component of our energy efficient action plan. we believe the current legal base is the correct one and we join the commission in their suggestions. as rapporteur, i would like to thank the commission for their cooperation and help and of course thank my colleagues, especially mrs müller, who drafted a very useful opinion from the environment committee. we all hope that the energy star scheme is a success and we look forward to watching computers throughout europe going to sleep at the correct time.
mr president, last saturday marie-josé the last queen of italy and daughter of king albert of this country died. she was a recognised democrat and historian. sadly she did not live to see her exiled son and grandson allowed to return to their homeland. thus her funeral shamefully could not take place in italy as they would not be permitted to attend. this italian constitutional article has no place in modern europe and is in clear breach of the freedom of movement provided for under the european treaties. i have three times attempted to gain the support of this parliament in condemning this law. the issue is being decided at present by the court of human rights and will not go away. i call upon the italian government to use the opportunity afforded by the sad death of queen marie-josé to fulfil its legal obligations to the european union and grant the two male princes the same rights as every other italian citizen and let them go home.
commissioner, you have the melancholy satisfaction of being proved right and that never makes one popular or even happy. the very people and the very member states who were shrugging off your warnings two years ago, who were denying you a qualified majority, as you said just a few months ago, are now clamouring for compensation and support as the beef market collapses and we face the prospect of millions of animals in store, unsellable, undisposable of over the next two years. in the united kingdom we see this with some sympathy. people will say to me: well, yes, you were first. we were first in the whole cycle from complacency to despair and back again. and if today the beef market is sound in britain and beef consumption is rising, it is only because people have seen how draconian the measures need to be. every question i now want to ask the commission comes from that experience. firstly, the extent of bse. what are the tests showing? what do the member states themselves say? we see reports that some countries which claimed a year ago to be bse-free, now anticipate up 500 cases in the course of the next year. if europe has fallen into line with the principle of culling animals over 30 months, is that in itself enough? what do the tests and the research findings say about the incidence of the disease in animals younger than 30 months. thirdly, what capacity do the member states have for destroying the materials that are now being removed? which member states have the incineration capacity? are some still saying that they will put this material into landfill? these are all serious questions, which we know you will try to answer. we think you should go further and i would just like to echo what my friend mr garot said which is that europe most of all owes you its solidarity.
mr president, i welcome the proposals to ban the production of mechanically recovered meat from all ruminant bones of all ages. in the uk at the moment, we have a ban on mrm from beef and also we do not have any animal going to the food chain over 30 months, but the problem is mrm beef coming in from other eu countries. as far as i know, there is no adequate test to make sure that they are bse-free. so i welcome the ban. with regard to the removal of the vertebral column, you have brought up the question: where should it take place, abattoir or at the point of sale? but is it really necessary? we must take into account the scientific steering committee’s review, but surely if the spinal cord is removed adequately that should be enough. whatever happens, all these safeguards must be monitored carefully. i am pleased that there is going to be a monthly report from other eu countries as happens in the uk at the moment, but please bring in these measures quickly. make sure they are properly in force and please learn from the uk’s past mistakes.
commissioner byrne, i am not noted usually for complimenting you on your good performance but on this occasion i wish to be fair. it is totally wrong for member states now to blame the commission when you were pointing out as long as a couple of years ago the problems that were going to occur. what member states have done by trying to make out which beef is the safest in europe, is to destroy european beef. there is no doubt about that. we need to take action now across europe. i am a farmer who farmed through the bse crisis in the uk. i saw the value of my cattle drop to virtually nothing. it is very painful for the farming industry to see this happen and it is happening now throughout the whole of europe, so action needs to be taken. i do not think we want to re-invent the wheel so we should look to the measures that have been taken in britain and have restored consumer confidence. i would urge, and i know commissioner byrne agrees with this, to have one policy throughout europe. if we do not, the european press will take each member state in turn, they will look at the safety measures that are in those states and they will compare and then people’s confidence in beef in general will collapse. there is no doubt that the older cattle, however painful it is, have to be taken out of the food chain. they must be destroyed. not only is there incineration but there is now a sodium hydrolysis method of dissolving cattle. i am sure you are looking at that, because that could be a better and possibly a cheaper method of disposing of these cattle. we need also to look at imports of cattle from outside the european union, because not only do we need to get our act together, i believe there is a lot of complacency about this in the rest of the world. at the end of the day, we must get beef consumption up, we must convince the consumer that it is safe and let them eat european beef. (applause from the right)
rapporteur. – mr president, i want to first talk about why this report is important and in doing so i picked at random a number of published authors: the works of michel tournier, leonardo sciascia, italo calvino and a man in my own country, caryl philips. a couple of shelves at home house this work of rich linguistic diversity, of rich form, rich culture and rich history. they fashion the way in which i think about and look at the world. the canvas upon which i work has been painted by these authors who are enjoyed by many people. books for me are principally about access to choice, access to ideas and access to opportunities. i grew up in a pretty humble background, in a poor area with impoverished expectations and poor prospects. but from the day that i entered a public library, books became my liberation as they have been to so many others. i am very grateful to the authors and publishers of those books for giving me that liberation and it is now my duty to ensure that experience is passed on to others. what then is the report about? quite simply, i want to ensure that as we fully enter the electronic age, the framework which operates in member states for books, whether it be protecting intellectual property rights, tax regimes, the regulation of demand or grants, continues to operate in the new age. books have always been recognised as more than simply a commodity and in an increasingly commodified world this is extremely important. electronic publishing covers four specific areas: electronic books, printing on demand, internet bookshops and publishing on the internet. we need to make sure that we have the policies to operate a fully comprehensive canvas on which all of these developments can take place. so what do i want to see in this report? firstly, we need to encourage the huge growth and development of these industries and the widespread use of electronic media in europe. we need to have affordable access to these media for all europeans and the educational provision to make this possible. we should continue to foster linguistic and cultural diversities through the use of electronic publishing and we should facilitate the easy transformation of traditional publishing industries into the e-publishing arena. in order for this to happen, we need to ensure that the appropriate policies are in place to pursue this growth and to ensure that there is choice and access for all. therefore, my report calls for a number of things. the eu institutions have a very important part to play in ensuring future growth. first of all, the commission can establish a comprehensive policy to develop this sector. secondly, we can all promote policies that develop and encourage literacy and combat the digital divide. the commission can and should develop training and vocational programmes and support mechanisms for sme development in this particular sector and we should work with member states to build safeguards for the rights of authors and the interests of publishers, and ensure that workers in the industry have the opportunity to develop their capacity in the new age. member states should ensure that the current vat rules applying to books be monitored and mirrored for electronic publication. all of this is within our grasp and with this i commend to the whole house, as it almost is, my report with the hope that it provides us with a route map that will allow everybody to enjoy the benefits and the fruits of the emergence of this new sector. (applause)
mr president, i was the shadow rapporteur for the pse on this. what mr miranda says is correct, but it is misleading to say that is an amendment. as the notes in front of you say there was a mistake by the services and in fact the wording that was put in by both the ppe and ourselves was not reflected in what was printed. therefore mr miranda’s interpretation of what we should vote on is absolutely correct and i totally support him, but this is not a question of a further amendment. there was a genuine, technical error by the services. for absolute clarity, i have the wording here from the original. missed off at the beginning of the amendment were the words “whereas plan colombia is not the process of dialogue amongst the various social partners and…” and then the rest remains.
mr president, i wondered why mr fatuzzo has nothing to say on this. i would have thought that he would have had a minute to share with us. we are being deprived because we have no explanation of how he voted on the plan colombia. i wonder through you, president, if it is possible to ask him if he could explain to assembled masses here how he voted, because it is important that we know.
in writing. - the british labour meps of the pse support the spirit of this resolution, but have reservations about some of its content. we do not support the inclusion of the european public prosecutor's office in the text (paragraph 5). the aim of the resolution is to give such a body jurisdiction over the territories of the member states, which is an inappropriate response to the cooperation between nations that the report calls for. the legitimacy of such a body to override national orders would be questionable and the discretion of the member states in judicial matters should be preserved. in addition, parts of the text may be ambiguous and cause legal confusion in certain areas, such as paragraph 9 on indirect sanctions against member states, as well as the call to extend the powers of the european court of justice in its judgments on instruments adopted outside the eu sphere. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. while this may be desirable in some areas, cooperation in criminal matters should focus on information sharing, coordination of bodies with some legislative approximation where this is beneficial, but should not be a general rule.
in writing. - the eldr group voted in favour of the ferri report because we want to see a more effective and coordinated fight against organised crime within the eu by developing eu capacities in a way that is complementary to national criminal justice systems. however, we opposed paragraph 5 which calls for the union to have a ' (european) public prosecutor with jurisdiction over the entire territory of the member states', which implies that a european prosecutor would replace national prosecutors. we support the principle of a european public prosecutor's office working in parallel with national authorities, but not a body replacing them. we have accepted paragraph 11 (b) in so far as it means aligning national definitions of the most serious crimes so that criminals cannot escape justice by exploiting loopholes, but we make it clear that this does not imply the harmonization of all national justice systems. we have accepted paragraph 8 as we support a rationalisation of working languages for essential crossborder collaboration between professionals such as judges and prosecutors in matters such as extradition warrants. although we supported paragraph 9, we believe that the sanctions proposal has revealed weaknesses at the heart of the purely intergovernmental procedures currently in force. there is no way of enforcing the agreed legal aid measures, as would be the case if the community were responsible for this matter.
in writing. - we must ensure that electronic publishing is taken into account and that this important area is developed significantly alongside the traditional form of publication. we must also ensure that each of these forms has its proper place. i welcome the emphasis in the document on linguistic and cultural diversity and the important contribution of the written word to the development of culture in the various regions of europe. noting the emphasis on linguistic and cultural diversity, i hope that references to 'all languages' in the report include less widely spoken languages. electronic publishing is particularly important for books with a limited market - academic books and books in less widely used languages fall into this category. this is why it is important that the commission and the council take this into account when examining this report.
madam president, i refer to the draft regulation on european political parties. at the last part-session in strasbourg the commission was going to give us a statement on that matter. subsequently, it was withdrawn and i understand that the commission has now come to a view on the funding of european political parties. this is a matter of some sensitivity, especially since there are certain parties represented in this house that might regard themselves, for some reason, as ineligible for such funding, even if they approved of the funding in the first place. could you ask the commission if it would make a statement on this matter at some stage before the house? secondly, madam president, while we are on tuesday's agenda, it is worrying to me that the european parliament is holding a debate on the commission's work programme for 2001 but does not have a resolution on that matter. this is especially important since there are some 200 measures contained in the commission's work programme for 2001 which parliament will debate, but on which it will have no resolution. this is a bad precedent. there should be a resolution, especially since we are supposed to be scrutinising the work of the commission. finally, could i make the observation that far from being the commission's work programme for 2001, we might rename it the work programme of the commission, parliament and council.
madam president, thank you for that very helpful suggestion. not many of us will be here on thursday evening, unfortunately. it might be helpful if the commission could take this on board and tomorrow morning, in the statement it makes on the commission's work programme for 2001 – or the commission and parliament's work programme, as i like to call it – make such a statement in public.
madam president, like mr wiebenga, i am amazed that the christian democrat/conservative group thinks that euthanasia laws in member states are an appropriate matter to raise at european level. in the united kingdom, conservatives have been very quick to condemn european human rights guarantees as an outrageous interference in national affairs and as a breach of subsidiarity. we will no doubt hear a great deal from them on that theme in the next few weeks and months in the run-up to a british general election. it is quite extraordinary that they have supported raising the matter of euthanasia in a member state at european level, and i note this for the forthcoming election campaign.
madam president, very briefly in reply to baroness ludford's speech on the question of whether or not there should be a debate on euthanasia, i think it is entirely proper that parliament should debate euthanasia. i would personally recommend that there be no vote at the end of such a debate, and indeed my own delegation would expect a free vote because it is a matter of conscience. just for the record, i wish to make it clear that my delegation has taken no position on this matter in the epp group. mind you, baroness ludford's speech suggests to me that there might be some form of political euthanasia which i would support.
madam president, i rise following mrs hautala's statement about mrs lucas being imprisoned on her way to the part-session here today. it seems strange to me that she was imprisoned on her way here because she represents the south east of england and was arrested five or six hundred miles further north. maybe, instead of telling the uk government whom they can arrest and why, the parliamentary authorities could send her a map of the uk and some advice from our travel services as well.
madam president, being consistent and on the same matter i wish to point out that the british government is absolutely even-handed in its arrest policy. it also arrested a couple of members of the house of commons, a few members of the scottish executive and various others who were actually breaking the law, which is generally the reason you get arrested in the united kingdom. we were according equal rights to euro-parliamentarians by arresting them along with all the others. may they be kept locked up for a suitable period of time to deter them from being so stupid in the future!
madam president, i protest against the rather intemperate remarks of mr balfe. there is no power under scottish law to keep people locked up just as long as it suits you. the arrests that took place at faslane today were in accordance with the law, and i do not doubt that the persons concerned will be speedily released. it is very important that my colleague, mrs lucas, should have the opportunity in this house to raise the issue of whether her immunity extends to this case, given that there is serious doubt – already raised and tested in the scottish courts – about the lawfulness of the nuclear weapons kept on scottish soil.
madam president, would you, as president of our parliament, consider sending a message of congratulations to ellen macarthur, my constituent from derbyshire who came second in the round the world yacht race? i know that the race was won by a compatriot of yours – a frenchman. he was gallant and kind in his congratulations. if you, on our behalf, could congratulate them both, i and many others would be very grateful.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur in his absence and mrs langenhagen for her speech. mrs langenhagen has painted a very bleak picture of the state of cod in the irish sea. the irish sea, as mrs langenhagen has said, is an example to us all of how a stock, if not managed correctly, can be decimated. in just six years the amount of cod caught in the irish sea has halved. in 1993, 11 000 tonnes of cod was caught and in 1999, 5 500 tonnes were caught. this regulation for 2001 is necessary, however painful, if there is to be a cod fisheries at all in the irish sea. it is an example to other areas as well. a similar situation has arisen in the north sea. the cod stocks have declined so much that there has been a reduction of half in the total allowable catch and a new cod recovery programme introduced. vast stretches of the north sea have been protected whilst the spawning season gets under way. however, another consequence of the ban in cod fisheries over the next few months has been that the other areas where there is no ban are beginning to worry. for example, in the western isles fishermen are concerned that because of the cod ban in the north sea – and to some extent in the irish sea – cod stocks off the butt of lewis and south of barra will be adversely effected. after years of sustainable fisheries in these waters people fear that the adverse effect of these protective measures will be a decimation of their own stocks. these fears can only be compounded when just last week in mallaig, with the opening of the scallop beds, a dramatic increase in boats could be witnessed, which would otherwise have been fishing for the banned species. we have to think about the adverse effects on other fisheries when protective measures are introduced. it is somewhat ironic that in protecting fish stocks in one area we are inadvertently destroying stocks in another area. in conclusion, the reform of the common fisheries policy and the launch of the green paper in march are critical to stock preservation and to the fishing industry. we have to get the balance right between sustainability and a successful industry on the other hand. the reform of the common fisheries policy, i believe, is an opportunity. we must make sure that we get the reforms right. i thank the rapporteur in his absence.
mr president, in his report on the irish sea fishery mr nicholson recognises that this area has the dubious honour of pioneering the use of emergency measures to arrest the decline in cod stocks. but in the north sea, too, we are subject to emergency measures this year, necessary measures aimed at maximum protection of cod during the spawning period between now and the end of april. why is it then that, after so many years of a common fisheries policy whose principal intention is to conserve stocks, we have to resort to emergency measures in the irish and north sea cod areas? while accepting the need for these short-term measures, we must also learn from past mistakes and prepare sensible long-term management proposals to try to deal with these situations. the technical measures which have been pioneered in areas like scotland must be built on and improved and extended to all areas of fishery. appropriate action must be taken to prevent the displacement of effort leading to damage in other areas and to other stocks. the impact of industrial fishery must be properly assessed, in terms both of its allowable white fish by-catch, and of its effect on the whole marine food chain. clearly a significant downturn in fishing activity can be expected in the next few years, and clearly with that significant downturn in activity will come a significant downturn in the income of many families and many communities in our fishing areas, both in the catching sector and in processing. just as the economic and social effects of the lack of a new agreement with morocco have been felt in very particular areas, so the effects of these emergency measures in the long-term cod recovery plans will have an effect in very particular areas. there is a case for looking at similar financial compensation measures for these areas. the cfp review provides a challenge and an opportunity. i hope that the solution we come up with will be one that actually works. the best means of doing that is to make sure that the new fisheries policy includes significant and adequate involvement of stakeholders – of fishermen, processors, scientists and conservationists from particular areas such as the north sea, so that we can work together to recommend proposals for management which are tailored to and targeted towards the needs of these particular areas.
rapporteur. – mr president, can i first of all apologise to you, your predecessor and the house for my late arrival. my problems began this morning at a very early point when my flight from belfast to london was cancelled. thanks to british midland international and the good work of their staff, i got here rather late, but still i am here. i apologise, as i did not intend to be discourteous to the house. i listened with tremendous interest to mr van dam talking about half-baked approaches by the commission and how well the dutch fishermen were responding. mr van dam should go back and read my report because i neither criticised the commission nor the fishermen. this is not an easy problem. it is a very serious problem. to some extent the fishermen in my region faced this problem last year. for them, this is the second year of closure. i should tell mr van dam and the scottish fishermen, who are now facing the first year of closure and are creating a lot of waves, that the fishermen from my region not only took this in their stride but actually responded in a very positive way. they cooperated with the commission in the technical measures and were prepared to look very sincerely at them. it is not easy for fishermen to take on board a closure of their area for such an extensive period. it is even more difficult when there are no support mechanisms to help the industry find a way forward. this is what i want to concentrate on. when i raise the problem of the commission coming forward with concrete proposals – be it set-aside or support mechanisms – the commission says: " let the national authorities come forward with ideas and we will take them on board in a very positive way." but the problem is that the national authorities will not come forward with any sincere proposals to help the fishermen in the region. certainly not the united kingdom authorities – and it does not really matter whether it is a conservative or labour government. neither of them would ever come forward with any positive support to help the fishermen. i have one amendment to my report and i ask the commissioner to take it on board. it is to allow the fishermen, under the supervision already agreed at the early part of the closure, to continue right through that closure. if at any time the discards exceed part of that closure, then the fishermen will quite readily accept. at this moment, the commission has set its face against accepting this amendment. this is unfortunate because the cooperation that is being given by the fishermen to the commission is a shining example to other parts of the european union. as mr van dam said, there is a tremendous problem, there is tremendous concern and we have to ensure the future of cod for the future of fishermen. i hope the commission will be able to take on board the very positive aspect that i have put forward in my amendment.
mr president, mr nicholson's report underlines the serious crisis now affecting fish stocks in the waters around britain and ireland. the very fact that the commission has found it necessary to implement emergency measures in four separate areas to save exhausted fish stocks, serves to illustrate the total failure of the common fisheries policy. as of today, 12 february 2001, more that 40 000 square miles of the north sea will be closed for 12 weeks to all white fish trawling. in addition, there will be emergency closures covering the west of scotland, the irish sea, as we have heard, and north atlantic hake and all of this comes on top of the savage cuts in total allowable catches and quotas announced by the council last december. the common fisheries policy in its current form has been operating for 18 years. the system of tax and quotas has led to massive quantities of healthy fish being dumped dead back into the sea. over two million tonnes of fish a year, 25% of the total fish catch in the eu, are discarded in this manner. the system of magps has also been a disaster. member states who attempt to observe these rules are punished while other member states ignore the magps entirely. so, the cfp has failed in its core objectives. it has failed to sustain fish stocks and it has failed to secure a future for our fishermen. this latest round of cuts and emergency measures will again drive hundreds more out of the industry. the cod recovery measures in the irish sea last year cost the irish sea fleet a devastating drop in income of 42% during the closed season. despite this appalling crisis, despite the fact that there are too many fishermen chasing too few fish around the north sea and the irish sea, this house voted overwhelmingly at its last part-session in january to do away with 6 and 12-mile limits around our shores, to open equal access to the north sea and to break into the shetland and irish boxes. these decisions will be regarded by many fishermen in the uk and ireland as the last straw. sixty-five per cent of the entire fishing resources of the eu are to be found in the waters surrounding the british isles, that is the uk and ireland. why should we sit back and allow our fish to be plundered and allow our fishermen to be impoverished? it was extremely foolish and short-sighted of this house to vote the way it did on the reports last month. it may well prove to be the last straw that breaks the camel's back and may drive the uk out of the common fisheries policy.
chairman of the committee on citizen's freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs. – madam president, the committee which i have the honour to chair is very much aware of the importance of this matter and the urgency of its adoption before 25 march 2001, to allow the nordic union to be fully involved. we would have preferred to have been informed of this earlier by the council. they have brought it to us at the very last moment. nonetheless, in the circumstances it is our view that we would not wish to delay the vote on this, and we consider it best to treat this as a matter without report; we would therefore suggest that it be put straight to the vote in this part-session.
mr president, the commission president has told us that the institutions must be responsible, transparent and efficient and he has promised to bring forward a white paper on governance. if we need to improve the quality of governance of the union, we might make a start with the commission's work programme itself. we should be focusing policy-making on areas where eu-wide action is indispensable. we should be ensuring that the principle of subsidiarity is fully respected. is this really the case with the commission's recommendation on a common european format for curriculum vitaes: no 379 on their list of measures to implement this year? each new legislative proposal should include a justification of why action at union level is necessary and we might help, as my colleague mr clegg has suggested, by establishing a standing scrutiny committee in this house to ensure that measures proposed meet the criteria for subsidiarity and proportionality. your state of the union speech, mr prodi, should be accompanied by a detailed list of proposals individually justified and explained, not hidden away in annexes to the document. the proposal should be the outcome of serious debate in the college of commissioners, not passed on the nod as a points. our committee should cross-examine individual commissioners on the proposals in their area of responsibility. finally, the annual work programme should come to a vote here in parliament. nice showed the failures of intergovernmental europe. it is up to us to make a more persuasive case for a federal europe.
mr president, there are, not unnaturally, different assessments in this parliament regarding the treaty of nice, but even those who are highly critical of the treaty – and there are many – will agree in this debate on the future of europe that the best way forward is to use the post-nice procedures and to make the most of them to improve our union, to rectify the shortcomings of nice and to have a proper debate on the future of the union. the way that this should be done – and my views are very close to those of the commission – is to have a first-year wide-open debate – let a thousand flowers bloom – then move to a broad, deliberative body that will draft the changes that are necessary. this could be composed in the same way as the convention that produced and composed the charter of rights with representatives of the european parliament and national parliaments and governments. finally, there would be a short, sharp igc to approve the results at the end. obviously, we will be dealing with the four issues that were mentioned by the european council including one issue which overlaps very much with the commission's white paper on governance. i would be interested to hear the commission's views on how these two processes are going to tie in to each other, because there is a degree of overlap there. there will also be other issues that should be addressed. the future of the high representative, the question of extending the codecision powers of parliament to all legislative procedures, taking in those few that are now by anomaly left out. we must also look at the issue of codification of the treaties. i would plead for a special procedure. this year, why not set up a committee of experts from the member states and the institutions to complete the task that was started in florence of codifying and simplifying the treaties so that the political work next year can start on the basis of a text that is already simplified and codified? the technical work would thus be out of the way before we move on to the political work. i would advocate that way forward.
mr president, i start with the commission's work programme for 2001. the case for the eu to do less and do it better has never been clearer or more pressing. the european parliament should say so in the coming weeks as the committees look into this programme. with some 600 initiatives, of which almost 200 are legislative measures, there is a lot of work to be done on scrutiny and on setting our own priorities, which we look forward to doing. turning now to the question of the post-nice process, i would rather see it as our european future. we look back into the history of the european union over the last generation and the continent of europe over the last century. i should like to recall some words by milan kundera in his book the book of laughter and forgetting where he says: "people are always shouting that they want to create a better future. it is not true. the future is an apathetic void of no interest to anyone. the past is full of life, eager to irritate us, provoke and insult us, tempt us to destroy or repaint it. the only reason people want to be masters of the future is to change the past." well, we have changed the past and europe is a different place from what it was in the post-war era. the four nice leftovers are not small or casual affairs. our view on the core issues is clear. we want to see a bigger role for national parliaments, on a systematic and constructive basis. we would welcome a clearer delineation of competences, as the berlin declaration by the european democrat union last month favoured, provided that it is not an excuse to strengthen the centre. likewise, simplifying the treaties would serve the public interest, but this must not be the pretext for introducing a fully-fledged european constitution, especially if the latter were the founding document of a federal state whose preamble was a legally-binding charter of rights. all of these issues need and deserve the widest possible public debate. but despite lip service to open consultation in the past, the nice igc process, like amsterdam and maastricht before it, was ultimately the preserve of national civil servants negotiating behind closed doors. the next consultation must be different. it needs to involve real and wide consultation throughout civil society, reflecting the open culture and open politics which we claim to favour. mr corbett quoted chairman mao. i would rather quote george bush senior: society is "a thousand points of light", not "a thousand flowers blooming". our debate on the eu's institutional future must draw on all of society, harnessing not just the resources of a closed brussels policy world but the democratic potential of the internet and – yes – of opinion polls. the eu must sustain a truly open society. the people must have their say, including those in the candidate countries. we must also reschedule the next igc. in 2004 we will see a lame-duck commission on its last legs and the european election cutting across the igc. better to schedule the conference for 2003, with the 2004 european parliament elections allowing a popular verdict on some of the key choices being made by governments with enlargement under way. there are important questions. in britain, as in other countries facing general elections in the next couple of years, one of the central issues will be: in whose hands is the future of europe safe? with the council of ministers and the commission firmly in socialist hands, europe today is going down the wrong track. in britain the choice could not be clearer in our coming election: to guarantee a decentralised europe that works, only the conservatives offer an agenda which can get the post-nice process right. to secure our european future, like the british, most people in europe want to be in europe but not run by europe. (laughter and applause)
mr president, following lisbon and nice, i had hoped to see a better balance in the commission's work programme between employment, economic and social policies, but i do not see much evidence of that. we need balanced progress in the internal market, in competition policy and in social policy, but again i do not see much evidence of that in the commission's work programme. i would like to see, for example, a recognition of the interdependence between these areas of policy. in competition policy and internal market rules we need an amendment to the merger regulation to include considerations related to employment and social rights and the inclusion, for example, of social clauses in the public procurement framework. i would have liked a recognition of these inter-relationships, but i do not see it. i see far faster movement in the economic and internal market sphere than in the social sphere and there are real dangers of a growing imbalance in that respect. furthermore i do not see much evidence in the commission's work programme of the social agenda agreed at nice last december. we will see further progress in areas of open coordination, in employment – well established now – and the first steps in relation to social protection. i should mention the fundamental problem that key commission documents are not made available to parliament and its rapporteurs in good time. we need to have respect for parliamentary procedures in relation to these new forms of open coordination. finally, on a specific issue, the commission's work programme misses the point by a great distance when it promises a green paper on a corporate sense of social responsibility in the middle of this year. a green paper on such a code is a sick joke to the many thousands of workers who have been affected by restructuring in recent weeks. we need a complete overhaul of the legislation framework in this area and i hope the commission will move quickly in that respect. (applause)
mr president, mr president of the commission, we agree that after lisbon we need a knowledge-based economy. i am glad that mr prodi emphasised the overriding importance of sustainable development, which has implications well beyond the natural environment. we welcome the acceleration of the energy market, though there is a risk of that aim clashing with the aim of sustainable development. i hope you will pursue rigorously a policy of encouraging renewable energy sources and rational use of energy. as far as trade is concerned, we agree that a new wto round is desirable, again subject to the constraints of sustainable development. i wish to convey to mr prodi our very great disappointment at the lack of involvement by the european parliament in trade matters, which could have been rectified at nice, but which was not. i strongly urge you to work on an interinstitutional agreement which involves the european parliament in trade matters. we believe in reform and democratisation of the wto. we believe the everything but arms move is a good step, although some of us regret the delayed timetable which sends a message of less than complete commitment to the least developed countries in the world. as far as innovation and research are concerned, we look forward to a detailed sixth framework programme. if you present us with very vague proposals, that will certainly delay implementation and lead to concern and disappointment throughout the eu. the european research area is of course important. we look forward to wide publicity for the benchmarking exercises, particularly in the areas of enterprise and innovation. (applause)
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a few minutes i would not like to answer all the speeches i have taken note of, but i would like to make a few remarks on some of them to underline the general line. the problem of working always with priorities, not in an analytical but in a synthetic way, has emerged above all from all the speeches, from mr cox's speech onwards. it is clear that the excess of 495 points in our detailed programme, if isolated from the context, may even seem absurd, but at certain moments we have to be analytical to give an idea of the concreteness and then, as this morning, we have to be concrete on the priorities to give an idea of the policy. i also believe that a government needs to be sometimes pedantic, sometimes boring: we try to be as uncool as possible, but it's part of the job. today and in the last few sessions we have presented a strategic planning programme. i think parliament will appreciate that i have set out the strict priorities, but precisely these strict priorities will have to be followed by detailed documents which will be extraordinarily tedious. but that 's the policy . it's vision and then it's reality. secondly, the commission/parliament report has been raised by everyone - by mr hänsch and many other members - as a problem of unitary work. mr hänsch even spoke of making a single document. i don't know if this is helpful; we must work together in an extraordinary way to reach a common will, a common decision. the perspectives from which these decisions are taken may also be different or may coexist in a single document; the problem is that we - in committees, in our daily work - continue to do the work of convergence, study and analysis, of tiresome problem-solving, which is what we are doing now. for the time being, this will have to be done on a complex timetable. this is the third problem that has arisen this morning, which has been highlighted by mr mcmillan-scott, mrs maij-weggen and many others. we have a complicated timetable. we all talk about 2004, but 2004 is a year of absolute transition for parliament and the commission. if we really want this process to be carried out in a unified and organised way, it is clear that it will have to be completed by the end of 2003. i am only putting this as a matter for reflection, but obviously the election campaign will begin in spring 2004, elections will be held in june, and then the new commission will be installed, and it will not take office until january 2005. it is therefore a year of transition, and i believe that this parliament has the desire to be a full protagonist in this great political change in europe. i am therefore raising this problem because i believe that it is no longer elusive. i also believe that such a transformation cannot be achieved by two parliaments or at a time of transition or at a time when the commission has no powers or at least is seeing its powers diminish and wear out. i put it as a problem without a solution yet, but i think it is necessary to reflect because a date has been set - 2004 - that must be taken into account; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr swoboda, mr hänsch, mr voggenhuber and mr corbett have raised another large family of problems, on which i would like to avoid any misunderstanding, concerning the way in which the debate on europe should be structured. in the end, we all agree on laeken: and then we'll see if we can do it right, if we can really engage civil society in the debate, as we promised. we have, however, the idea that parliament and the commission must help each other to steer this debate. as far as laeken is concerned, i would like to avoid any misunderstanding: i believe that the time has come to structure the debate on the future of europe in a comprehensive way. i repeat what i said and i would like to make it clear: we must create an interinstitutional body on the model of the convention which operated on the charter of fundamental rights. i repeat: the model; then, for the rest, it must be different, probably more narrow, more operational. now i'm just talking about the model. but we have to go beyond that model. i accept the proposal put forward by michel barnier and the committee on constitutional affairs. it is necessary for this body to make proposals which do not necessarily require unanimity, because there will come a time when we have to make such strong proposals on which unanimity is difficult to achieve. so we have to think of a different body that has the same goals. there are - and we must work on this - some essential points. i repeat: the european parliament is present, the national parliaments, the governments and the commission are involved. this remains the essence and strength of europe. of course, i share the objections i have heard - that it cannot be a very large body - and so there will be a difficulty, having four structures, in reducing the number of members of this institutional structure, of this deciding body. but i think that's the big task we have to face: a broad representation of all four structures and a sufficiently flexible number to enable them to take decisions; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think we can work together on this and come up with more definitive proposals. i would now like to make another observation. we have committed ourselves to two things: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must do this, and we must therefore think of the means to do it. finally, we agree to go beyond the four points of nice. so let's just stick to the content, and then we can come up with a name: i'm fine with assembly, board, committee, whatever. i think that this is the operational content that should guide us. another set of concerns has emerged with regard to the problem of subsidiarity and proportionality. i can assure you that this is the commission's position and it is not incompatible with the fact that we sometimes have to give analytical information. an interesting example has been made. we are not obliged to standardize the forms for resumes, but it is a help which we must often give to our young workers, who move from one country to another for their service. it may not be mandatory but it is certainly a tool to make them circulate in different countries in a better way. well, it's having this common sense to see that there are things, that we regulate, that may seem absurd but that need to be done to help the decisions that we make. there are others, many others, that make no sense. finally, mr fiori and mr sakellariou emphasized the mediterranean, and i am very pleased to hear that. we have not talked much about it this year, and i can understand why we have been - rightly - overwhelmed by enlargement and the balkans. but there is a very specific programme for the mediterranean: last year i was in israel and palestine. algeria, morocco and tunisia in the last month; the european union has been involved in a number of major conflicts in the past week in jordan, syria and lebanon. i can assure you that there is a desire, a need, a call for europe, not only because of the economic problems but also with a certain gratitude for the support we give to these populations. but there are two new, important points that are being asked of us all: the first is the transition from a bilateral to something more, to a multilateral. the community's role in the middle east is to help regional cooperation, which cannot be extended to the whole area but must operate in groups, for example the maghreb on the one hand and the mashreq on the other. this is a strong desire for a europe which is considered, in its formula - precisely because europe - to have already left behind any colonial past, any legacy that brings tension, and which is seen as a new and above all exemplary proposal for their collaboration. second point: the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the peace negotiations. it is clear that international problems will determine whether this problem can be solved. i'm bringing it here in front of parliament because it struck me as very important: it was explicit, strong, accompanied by the motivation that we know their problems, that we are daily associated with them. i am very passionate about the mediterranean, not because i was born in those areas, but because i want to remind you that coexistence, peace, war, compatibility between regions and cultures probably passes through much of it. i would remind everyone of this, also because the path has already been laid out and the spanish presidency is moving - we have spoken at length about this with the prime minister - towards a mediterranean summit during the spanish presidency next year. this year's preparations are therefore absolutely timely for an organic preparation of this policy. i agree with what i was told about sustainable development. i would like to stress once again that this is a very important but extremely difficult chapter. in fact, many times, with this expression, we simply want to save our souls, and instead sustainable development means making decisions that are terribly complicated and difficult, decisions that affect industry, our daily way of life, homes, energy use. it is a date of great importance which we cannot escape, but of great weight and responsibility if we do not want - i repeat - simply to save our souls, which can also be done in other ways. i am equally concerned about immigration and internal and external security policy. finally, i welcome with great enthusiasm the call that has been made by some to me not to delay enlargement. i have to say: we're not delaying it. the swedish presidency has given a strong personal impetus to this issue. the commissioner verheugen has organized the negotiating groups with enormous effort; chapter after chapter is being worked out. the problem of the major political decisions - agriculture, the environment, the structural funds - is coming to a head at this very moment, and it will be a time of terrible difficulty, a time when political wisdom will have to emerge most strongly because this will be the final blow to the great process under way. i have just quoted kofi annan, but the process of enlargement itself is regarded by the united nations and by everyone as a great message of peace and civilization to the whole world. we have to solve real problems for this to become available. i should like to conclude by saying a few words about the invitation i received from one of you, mr goebbels. i would say that the commission is not here to give opinions on these matters but to make proposals and possibly even to accept the invitation of the member himself to be the architects of the new building: with your help, of course, with your cooperation and also with your control. (applause) i would like to thank
commission. – mr president, honourable members, europe must face industrial restructuring and its social consequences by combining innovation with social cohesion and improving its capacity to manage change. our positive and pro-active answer to change covers three main fields: improving our capacity, anticipating and managing change i.e. in the dublin observatory; creating or developing the legal mechanisms which can ensure adequate protection of workers in situations of industrial restructuring and promoting in general their own capacity to anticipate change; and developing corporate social responsibility. the establishment of an observatory on industrial change is one of the actions proposed in the social policy agenda adopted by the nice summit as a means to develop a pro-active approach to anticipating and managing change. i personally attach much importance to this matter in view of the current situation regarding mergers and acquisitions. the dublin foundation has included this initiative in its four-year rolling programme. in the framework of its current limited resources, the dublin foundation has planned in its 2001 work programme to set up the observatory's steering committee. this work will provide a basis for further development of the observatory from 2002 onwards, if additional resources become available. the directives on collective redundancies and transfers of undertakings, dating back from the seventies, were conceived and adopted in a context of full employment and slow change. since then the situation in the economic world has radically changed. it is true that their provisions are no longer adapted to the needs of companies and workers. today they focus on promoting anticipation, prevention of crisis, employability and adaptability. our answer to the weaknesses of the existing rules, and the only efficient way to modernise national systems of worker involvement, consists in refocusing the information and consultation procedures on economic and strategic issues and putting the long-term evolution of employment within each company at the centre of them. that is the aim of the commission's proposal on information and consultation. once this general framework is adopted and widely applied, the specific rules on collective redundancies and transfers of undertakings will make sense; first of all, because crises in the employment relationship like these would in many cases have been prevented. secondly, even when they cannot be avoided, the normal losers would have been alerted well before and would be in a position to adapt better to inevitable changes in their employment situation. i know that you are very supportive of this approach and that you share the commission's satisfaction with the irreversible progress recently achieved on this sensitive dossier. with your cooperation and a strong political will from the council, we may finalise it before the end of this year and that will be a decisive step forward. i also share your point of view according to which the european works council directive will also have, sooner or later, to be updated. nevertheless, we will have much to gain from pursuing the evaluation of the rich experience of practical application of the directive. in addition, before doing so, we would conclude some unfinished tasks which are also at the centre of your concerns. first of all the information and consultation dossier must be finalised. then at the end of last year we had another major and long-awaited achievement: the european company statute. it is worth mentioning in the context of this debate because this new form of incorporation will certainly be widely used by companies in europe operating on a trans-national basis, above all, when they restructure themselves and adapt to new economic and market conditions. one of the outstanding positive elements of the statute is that it contains well developed provisions on worker involvement, which reflect the modern approach also translated in the national information and consultation proposal. this will surely contribute to a better treatment of the social dimension of corporate restructuring in europe. then the five other legislative proposals are on the line, following the unlocking of the european company texts: the three twin statutes for cooperatives, mutual societies and associations and the draft directives on trans-national mergers and transfers of the registered offices of companies from one member state to another. all of these instruments will require the same kind of provisions as the ones found in european companies. this is another reason for waiting a short while before launching the revision of the european works council directive, which, incidentally, will have much to gain from the debates held on these other dossiers. they will inevitably inspire and facilitate the acceptance of the solutions which will be on the table for discussion when we turn to the task. finally, i know that there is concern in this house about information and consultation of employees in the context of mergers and acquisitions control. as you know, from previous speeches, we are holding a debate within the commission on how better to address this concern. under the merger regulation, workers and representatives are already entitled in some cases to be auditioned by the commission's services, which conduct an inquiry on the conformity of a merger with the treaty. our idea consists in making these auditions more systematic. on the other hand, we could usefully remind merging companies of their responsibilities and obligations with regard to worker information and consultation on these operations which very frequently affect them. as social cohesion is now top priority for europe, public authorities can no longer be expected to be solely and wholly responsible for it. like every other part of society, businesses are expected to undertake their share. promoting corporate social responsibility is now an essential part of the european strategy for social cohesion. the guiding principle of corporate social responsibility for companies is to be competitive and profitable by living up to their social responsibilities. in response to the lisbon council's appeal to companies' corporate sense of social responsibility the commission has included this theme in its own social policy agenda published in june 2000 by stressing its importance in addressing the employment and social consequences of economic and market integration and adapting worker conditions in the new economy. it has announced a communication to support initiatives related to corporate social responsibility and management of change. the commission will issue a green paper this year to facilitate further development towards a framework for corporate social responsibility practice at european level. in conclusion, it is the combination of the different lines of action which i mentioned to you, as well as adequate action from public authorities, private organisations, companies, workers and the social partners at all levels, that will allow us to deal properly with the social implications of industrial change and corporate restructuring. all of them are important, all of them require an innovative and open attitude on the part of policy makers. i know that is your stance on this and i thank you for your support.
mr president, on this side of the house we are not trying to stop restructuring but we want it to be done in a socially responsible way. we want a pro-active approach to industrial restructuring and change. we want to see a corporate code of social responsibility but we can see that this will be achieved only when we have an updated and completed legal framework in this area. we want to see true partnership at work and the real benefits that this can bring to the european union. but the latest spate of restructuring in the united kingdom and throughout the european union shows that we are far from achieving those things. to the corus workers in the north-east of england or wales, to the vauxhall workers in luton – or, for that matter, the danone workers in france and holland – the idea of a corporate code of responsibility – as i said in an earlier debate – is a sick joke, quite frankly. the promise of a green paper in the middle of this year is not an adequate response to the anguish that those workers, their families and entire communities have felt. we want to see a review of the law on collective redundancies, a review on transfers, a review of the european works council directive, to make sure it is a directive that is observed rather than being systematically avoided by business. we also want to see the general framework on information and consultation adopted as a matter of urgency. this is absolutely essential if we are going to introduce an ongoing day-by-day flow of consultation and information and, in that way, build a true partnership at work: a partnership that can deliver improved innovation, competitiveness and productivity. we want to see that true partnership. we are tired of the linkage of various directives in this package, with the excuse that we cannot look for a review of the european works council directive until it has been further bedded-in and the european company statute is in place. yes, we need to establish linkage, but in taking this package now and taking a holistic approach to the need to improve information and consultation for workers. we believe that if this framework of legislation can be updated in this way, coupled with the new observatory on industrial change, it can give us the tools for a more pro-active approach to industrial change within the european union. i would also like to make an appeal to the liberal group. we were given a mandate by this house in january to look at this issue of restructuring in the committee on employment and social affairs. we have done that. we have come up with an oral question and a resolution in a spirit of cooperation. i would ask the liberals, in the spirit of cooperation, to withdraw their highly destructive resolution. it would be helpful. (applause)
mr president, unfortunately it is very timely that we should be discussing these issues today in the light of current examples of restructuring. as has been mentioned earlier, the anglo-dutch company corus – the steel company – is a classic example of a company making decisions based on profit with no regard to the disastrous social costs of its actions. corus has just announced total job losses of 6 000 in the uk – nearly 3 000 in my own constituency in wales. despite months of speculation over possible plant closures the company was unwilling to reveal its future plans to the government, let alone to its own workforce, until the formal announcement was made on 1 february. there was no prior consultation with the workforce, although since announcing the decision the company has been holding what it calls "consultation". there is speculation that danone, a profitable company, is to shed 3 000 jobs in europe. again there has been no consultation with the workers and no discussion about alternative ways forward. that is why it is so important to adopt the directive on the information and consultation of workers without delay, together with a review of the european works council directive and the collective redundancies directive, which incidentally proved to offer so little protection to the corus workers in my constituency. companies cannot be free to wreak such havoc on people's lives and communities. there is a positive framework of controls and sanctions which we can use. we must make sure they are effective.
mr president, the interpreter interpreted the oral amendment as "experience". the voting list text says "expertise". "expertise" is the appropriate word.
in writing. - i wholeheartedly support this report by mr dover, which aims to improve working conditions for young people in britain. this report supports the view that the uk is acting in accordance with a 1994 directive limiting the working hours of young people to eight hours a day or 40 hours a week and prohibiting night work, although it does provide for exceptions in special circumstances and for certain types of work. employment, and particularly youth employment, is of course extremely important, both for young people and for our economy. we must not do anything that will harm the employment prospects of young people in britain. however, employers sometimes take advantage of young workers and force them to work unnecessarily long hours. long working hours and difficult working conditions are extremely dangerous and can harm the health and productivity of our young people. it is therefore vital that working hours are controlled and that employers are prevented from exploiting young people at work. this exploitation is harmful and irresponsible. we must ensure that it is controlled and that our young people are protected from exploitation - and its destructive effects - by greedy or unwilling employers. legislation to reduce the working hours of young people already exists. we have to make sure that it is implemented. the sensible measures proposed by the commission should encourage the use of such measures. it is ironic to me that the british conservatives, who are constantly complaining about the meddling of brussels bureaucrats and opposed to this legislation, are supporting this report on social policy. this illustrates their completely schizophrenic attitude towards europe. the labour government is at the forefront of providing jobs for our young people and measures to protect them in the workplace. i urge the house to show its support for the protection of young people in britain and to vote in favour of this report.
mr president, as the first speaker from my group, i would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur on behalf of all my colleagues who work closely with him. we welcome the robust way that he has defended the balance of this directive. as the rapporteur said earlier, with the compromise amendments – the set of amendments passed by our committee – i am sure that we have the right directive at the right time. no one pretends that it is perfect. it is important to emphasise that. there has been considerable difficulty in reconciling national traditions and exceptions. there are countries that have levies, for example, on recording media. we have sustained the objective of this directive because, above all, we want to encourage new creative artists to exploit this new technology. this is an enabling, liberating directive. it gives them the assurance that they will be able to create new works and to get fair rewards. equally, on the balancing side, consumers expect that their existing rights to be able make private copies, to be able to use library facilities, to be able, if they are disadvantaged, if they are blind or disabled, to have access to new forms of media will be safeguarded. we have got that balance right. the other point, colleagues, is that we are not arrogant enough in the legal affairs committee to suggest to you that this is here for all time. we have proposed and recommend very strongly to you that in 18 months' time this directive be reviewed. we must, in a very fast-moving world, take responsibility for our work but be prepared to modify it in accordance with what is going on in an entirely new world. that is a very important provision. we have strengthened the review provisions. we propose a very speedy turnaround, and that shows that the legal affairs committee has taken a very responsible attitude to this directive. we now want to get it transposed as soon as possible. why do we want to get it transposed as soon possible? because a crucial element in this quick transposition is that the european union will be able to accede to the world intellectual property organisation treaty and that will bring a very important measure of global protection to all the artists involved. that is really a prize worth having and worth having as quickly as possible. (applause)
mr president, it is a great privilege to take part in this important debate. i am a bit sad that the tone of the debate has been in part negative and guarded. we need to remember that new communication media have in fact liberated interaction between people and ideas and between people and people. of course, that does give rise to some reasonable concerns about the protection of legitimate copyright interests in this age. meeting these concerns must not result in obstructing the ordinary person, the scholar or the scientist from accessing and using materials that are subject to copyright. the balance between producer interest and consumer interest has been stressed in this debate and is the balance that we have to try and strike. if we in the union were to strike the wrong balance, it would seriously inhibit the democratic openness of discussion that the internet and related media facilitate. if, for example, unreasonable restraints are placed on libraries, students, scholars and scientists will be the sufferers. the inter-library loan scheme might become an accidental casualty of change. the draft directive before us refers critically in article 5.5 to the well-established restraints on fair practice that are enshrined in the berne convention. subject to this, member states will be able to create regulated limits on copyright interests for the benefit of disabled people, private consumers, public libraries and museums and some others. that is permissive – member states will not, in any case, be required to do it. it will be a matter for local judgment guided by subsidiarity. as an author myself, i yield to no one in maintaining the rights of authors and performers – i add "performers" deliberately – to fair recognition and reward, but these values will be misapplied if they are used as a ground for obstructing reasonable limitations on commercial copyright interests and, i stress "the commercial interests", which we need to differentiate from the moral right of the author, which is expressly excluded from this directive. like others, i am delighted with mr boselli's work and i hope that we will pass this with relatively few changes. (applause)
mr president, we need to be clear about what we are trying to achieve in this directive. this directive, as a piece of intellectual property legislation, must try to incorporate structures to reward the creative industries, which in my own member state alone contribute gbp 60 billion to our national economy and gbp 8 billion of exports. they also employ 1.4 million people. at the same time we must not strangle or restrict freedom of access for legitimate users. this fits in with the eu action plan and the forthcoming summit in stockholm. the fact is that the internet genie is out of the bottle. we cannot stop technology, but neither can we allow it to render copyright dead or to let it be abused as a safe haven for piracy, parasites and mass illegal copying. yesterday's napster ruling clearly showed that copyright has to be applied to cyberspace. we must not encourage people to infringe copyright. the composition of the compromise amendments tabled by the rapporteur has maintained this balance between rightholders and users effectively. the exceptions which currently exist in article 5 mean that the generous provisions on exceptions that we have in the uk will continue to help vulnerable users and ensure that schools, libraries and research and education institutions can benefit from private copying. in the uk we also record programmes so that we are able to watch at the time and place we choose and that, of course, needs to remain intact. it is however regrettable that some unnecessary, unhelpful amendments have crept in at the last stage in committee. i refer to: amendment no 11, which seeks to give an exemption to broadcasting companies which no one else enjoys and which would reduce performers' and artists' rights in contravention of the wipo treaty; and amendment no 4 which, in the second part, introduces an unnecessary and unwarranted eu restriction of the freedom of national courts to decide how to deal with injunctions, in particular concerning piracy, and amendments on levies. while this is well-intentioned, we cannot support this approach because it could be interpreted, taken in a vague sense, to mean that levies should always be introduced when you have no technical protection in place. the uk does not operate a system of levies and we do not want to see it introduced through the back door. finally, as with every other piece of legislation on the internet that comes before us in this house, we should use the provisions of the directive, the review clause in article 12 and the role of the contact committee to prevent both the abuse of private copying and any abuse or limitation on fair use.
mr president, i am delighted to see that both the legal affairs committee and the rapporteur accepted that it was unwise to reopen a large number of issues in this area and that much of what was achieved in the common position reflects a balance on this very complicated problem. i hope that the house will also limit the number of amendments that are adopted and not interfere too greatly with the common position. it is a directive which i and the british conservatives welcome because it is vital that european citizens are given proper protection of their creative rights and creative works in the digital era and this directive will deliver that to them. this is essential because, not only is there an enormous music industry and film industry, we must not forget the highly successful computer games industry which is generating a huge amount of revenue in the united kingdom and in a number of other countries across the eu. but the british conservatives also firmly uphold the rights of those who take advantage of the public interest exceptions. groups such as the disabled, including blind people who need access to braille copies in order to access the internet, groups such as researchers, universities and libraries: these kinds of rightholder exceptions are vital for promoting research which is so important for our economic health. a less high profile exception that is important economically is the right of reverse engineering of computer software. we would entirely reject those amendments which are seeking to inhibit the use of those public interest exceptions. we therefore accept the need to tighten up the wording of article 6(4), to clarify its role and to restrict it to truly on-demand interactive services. having said that, there is another exception which is more controversial, which is ordinary private copying. we are all pleased to see the rules have been tightened up to prevent it being abused and used as a loophole for piracy; that is something that we would also support. i would lastly express some reservations about amendment no 11. if this amendment is passed, i fear that the broadcasters will have an advantage. they are getting something for nothing. i think this skews the common position a little and, unless someone can convince me otherwise, i would have grave reservations about amendment no 11. we have a sensible and balanced position and i fear amendment no 11 may tilt that balance in the wrong direction.
commission. – mr president, thank you for giving me the floor on this important subject. i should like to begin by saying that the discussion on this subject has taken a long time, as mr boselli indicated a little while ago – i think he said three years. that indicates the importance, as well as the controversial nature, of this proposal. after long discussions, in which this parliament played a very constructive role, we are meeting today to consider what i hope will be a balanced compromise. we now need to agree as rapidly as possible on a set of rules on copyright and related rights in the information society at european level, in order to increase the competitiveness of the community and to implement our obligations at international level. this directive will be a cornerstone in the establishment of a harmonised legal framework on copyright, in a digital environment in particular. as such, it belongs to those measures for which the lisbon summit at the end of last year set us a clear deadline. the community needs such a framework if it is not to lag behind its major trading partners and, as was remarked this afternoon, we are already lagging behind the united states. furthermore, without such a framework in place, rightholders and users cannot respond to the challenges posed by technology in the market place. the adoption and implementation of this directive is also a precondition for the european union to ratify rapidly the two wipo treaties which were adopted in 1996. here we carry an important responsibility as the coming into force of the wipo treaties depends largely on this directive and therefore on us. the formal decision to ratify the treaties was adopted by the council on 16 march 2000. parliament has already endorsed that decision, but without this directive neither we nor the member states could move towards ratification of those treaties. throughout the legislative process, parliament has played a significant role. the important changes to this directive introduced after the first reading clearly reflect the influence of this parliament. we welcome the constructive approach of the rapporteur, mr boselli, and of the chair of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, mrs palacio – whom it is a particular pleasure to see again today – and also the members of the committee which mrs palacio chairs. they have shown a keen sense of appreciation of the issues at stake in this directive, reducing the number of amendments to 15. most of those amendments were, in fact, compromise amendments, also on crucial issues. the commission appreciates the efforts made by the rapporteur on private copying and by the committee on legal affairs when it voted not to amend the technical copies exception. the commission is in a position to accept all of the compromise amendments. we have, however, concerns about some of the other amendments which have been voted. i shall now say something about each of those amendments, although very briefly. firstly, amendment no 2. it deals with remuneration schemes and the products to which they apply, even though such schemes are outside the scope of the directive. this directive requires fair compensation for certain of the exceptions, one of which is private copying. the system of fair compensation envisages flexibility for member states, rightholders and users to establish the basis on which those exceptions apply. amendment no 4 does not respect the principle of proportionality because it seeks to lay down conditions for the granting of injunctions. but the issue of sanctions is already adequately dealt with in the directive. amendment no 11, about which i shall be speaking in reply to some remarks made a little while ago, adds a further exception for broadcasters, framed in terms which were rejected by parliament itself at first reading. the exception proposed goes too far and risks putting the community in breach of its international obligations under the wipo treaties, for which this directive is meant to be the instrument of ratification. amendment no 12 as currently drafted risks undermining the commission's own powers to take measures when member states take action that affects the functioning of the internal market. for this reason the commission cannot see its way to accepting it. amendment no 13 adds nothing to the text of article 6(4) which already provides for fair compensation for private copying. in the light of the above, we support the compromise amendments by the rapporteur and the legal affairs committee but not amendments nos 2, 4, 11, 12 and 13. moreover, a series of further amendments, namely amendments nos 16 to 45, have also been tabled in parliament. the majority of those amendments have been rejected by the legal affairs committee. three amendments, however, namely amendments nos 26, 27 and 28, are new. in all cases, however, the issues raised by those amendments have been thoroughly considered, not just in the course of this second reading, but throughout the history of this directive – considered by my services but also by member states. none of those further amendments are acceptable to the commission. i should now like to address some of the questions and comments made this afternoon more specifically. first of all, there are the questions and remarks made by mr medina ortega, mr manders and mr echerer on private copying and on the use of the words "for private use". the question is should or should not the commission support amendment no 5 and if so, why? in reply to that question, i should like to say that the commission is of the view that amendment no 5 provides greater security for rightholders while at the same time allowing legitimate private copying in a manner which is enforceable both by member states and by rightholders and it clarifies what is commercial by including ends that are both direct and indirect. there are several safeguards built into this directive which qualify the extent to which private copying may take place and thereby act as a deterrent to piracy. that is particularly the case in relation to the protection of technological measures. the commission is of the opinion that the reference to "private use" is too narrow a formulation and would give rise to difficulties in enforcement especially in the private domain. then there is the question and a comment made by mr manders on article 5 and in particular on the words "transient" and "incidental". on that point, article 5(1) has been at the centre of attention in all institutions. there have been many amendments tabled both in the legal affairs committee and again here in parliament which propose changing the text of the common position. the legal affairs committee very wisely rejected all those amendments when it voted on 6 february 2001 and the commission accepted the text of the common position which states that the acts of copying, in order to be exempted, must be transient or incidental and that they should form an essential part of a technological process. the commission prefers "or" to "and" in this context because making the conditions cumulative by adding "and" may make the whole exception too narrow and less operational. in addition, including "essential" seems to make sense, as it would be difficult to justify why the exception should privilege acts of reproduction which are not an "essential" part of a technological process. the current text of article 5(1) together with the interpretative guidance provided in recital 33 ensures – in the commission's opinion – a satisfactory balance between the rights of rightholders and the legitimate interests of other parties involved such as telecom operators, users, consumers and other parties. together with article 8 on remedies and sanctions, article 5(1) will help to provide for effective copyright protection against piracy whilst at the same time promoting the smooth operation of networks. in particular, it gives service and access providers the necessary legal certainty for their activities on the networks. responding to comments made by mrs fraisse, mrs villiers and a number of others on amendment no 11, may i say the following. there is already an exception for broadcasters based on an amendment adopted by this parliament at first reading. it introduced a new exception for broadcasters relating to so-called ephemeral reproductions. to introduce a further exception would not only disturb the balance of rights achieved, but could also lead to a violation of member states' international obligations. in relation to amendment no 11, a similar amendment was proposed at first reading. the commission could not accept that amendment as it disturbed the balance between the parties concerned and might have caused considerable damage to authors, performing artists or other holders of the rights concerned. the commission is in agreement with mrs fraisse, mrs villiers and almost all speakers in rejecting this amendment. i wish to thank mrs palacio for her support throughout the history of this proposal. if it had not been for her leadership and guidance in the legal affairs committee, it would not have been possible to steer our way through both the first reading and now the second reading, and the commission is duly grateful to her. the commission would also like to thank the rapporteur and parliament in general for the excellent work performed. the common position represents the views of an entire cross-section of diverging interests: the creative and artistic communities, the academic, educational and scientific communities and also consumer groups and bodies representing socially disadvantaged users. nonetheless, in spite of the complexity of the groups whose interests have to be taken into account, the directive ensures a sufficiently high degree of copyright harmonisation and it should be possible to reach a final agreement today. we have gone very far in meeting the concerns of everyone so, as mr boselli put it earlier this afternoon, i hope that this proposal will be approved tomorrow and that it will be adopted with as little change as possible.
rapporteur. – mr president, we are now close to the end of what has been a three-year process of reforming the legislation for the control and genetically modified use of organisms as products within the european union. we have now completed the process of reconciliation and we have a text for final approval. the text before us meets many of parliament's demands at first and second reading. we have the precautionary principle reaffirmed. we have tighter risk assessment of all gmo releases. we have schemes for monitoring traceability that will ensure continuous assessment of all releases throughout the ten-year life of this time-limitation for consents. we have achieved the phasing out of all harmful, antibiotic-resistant marker genes. we have a clear timetable. we have a clear and transparent process and a clear timetable for the approvals which ensure the mandatory consultation of the public which guarantees public registers of locations of gmos grown and used. steps have also been taken on the issues of liability, traceability and labelling. parliament can only be satisfied on those issues, however, when we see the additional legislation and flanking measures which i understand are now in preparation within the commission. in short, we have in front of us today for our approval the toughest gmo legislation in the world, so tough, in fact, that some natural foods in common use today would not pass through this procedure. should we approve this legislation tomorrow it would mean the beginning of the end of the present informal 'moratorium' on gmo commercial approvals. certain members of the council have, however, already made it clear that they will scrutinise individual applications for approval and may not allow commercialisation until legislation on traceability and labelling is in place. i welcome this. this is a final safeguard to the recommencement of an approval process which has been long awaited but it can be no reason for opposing the final approval of the new 90/220 legislation we have in front of us now. this legislation is an essential building block and foundation for the success of those measures still to come. i therefore commend this important legislation to the house. it is essential to ensure the safe and proper use of gmo products within the european union. it is essential to ensure the building of public confidence in these products, it is essential to ensure that this new technology, which promises so much, will in the end deliver what we are seeking from it.
mr president, i should like to ask the commissioner three questions. how soon does he think the 350 000 ceiling on beef taken into intervention will be passed and how far does he expect it to go? is it not better to incinerate animals over 30 months old rather than start putting too much of this old beef into intervention? finally, i do not understand the 90-animal limit because surely extensification, greening the agricultural policy is the way forward. i can take the commissioner to many farms in the uk where there are over 90 cattle being raised on an extensive-type regime and to smaller farms where cattle are intensively produced. so surely it is the extensification payment that should be altered, not this 90-animal ceiling.
commission. – the commission is fully aware of the importance of the participation of consumer representatives in the standardisation of work. the importance of the participation of all interested parties in the process has been recognised in several resolutions and communications. the commission is actively supporting this through different initiatives. in particular, the commission gives important annual financing support, amounting to eur 830 000 in 2001, to the european association for the coordination of consumer representation in standardisation – the organisation known as anec. it is also important that consumer organisations identify this subject as a priority in order to allocate the necessary resources. the commission also encourages the member states and the standardisation bodies to facilitate the participation of consumers in the standardisation process, at national level as well. the general product safety directive, which aims at ensuring that products placed on the market are safe, gives a specific role to european standards. this role is reinforced in the new version which is about to be adopted by the council and the european parliament. in order to elaborate these standards the commission will give to the european standardisation bodies standardisation mandates in which the level of safety to be achieved will be specified. consumer organisations will be consulted on the content of the mandates. the commission will verify that the standards developed comply with the requirements of the directive and the mandates, both when it comes to aspects related to safety and to the participation of consumers, before the publication of the references of the standards in the official journal. the commission will carefully check that all the standardisation mandates under the directive, in particular those relating to children's products, are satisfactorily executed.
commission. – issues such as this are always kept under review. as you are aware, the general product safety directive is the overall framework legislation that deals with this issue. my services and i keep a very close eye on how the legislation is implemented, throughout the european union, to ensure that consumers – and children, in particular – are protected from dangerous products. you will be aware that there is a safety measure contained within the general product safety directive; that was the measure used last year when we brought forward a safeguard measure relating to phthalates in children's toys. that is one of the measures that can be used by way of an emergency measure to protect children.
could i briefly ask the commissioner if he can be specific now on an issue many of us, including mrs hulthén, have raised with him before, that is the potential dangers of plastic inedibles which are given away with sweets and other things and which are not a foodstuff. they are a plastic, but they are not really designated as one or the other. is he confident now that these substances are actually safe for children?
commission. – the commission is very conscious of the need to increase the proportion of women in a1 and a2 grades. it is for that reason that, since 1995, annual targets are set for the appointment of women to these and to other management posts. the commission's overall target, as announced at the beginning of our term of office in 1999, is to double the number of women in these two grades during its term in office, thereby raising the number of women in a1 and a2 posts to 44 or about 20% by 2005. to achieve this, the annual targets are set on the basis of anticipated turnover in the grades each year. in 2000 the target for the appointment of women to a1 was two appointments and the target for a2 was five appointments. these targets were exceeded with three new appointments being made to the a1 grade and seven new appointments to the a2 grade. as a result, the current number of women at a1 level is four out of 54 and the number of women at a2 level is 21 out of 178. the commission intends to continue its practice of setting annual targets because it has evidently assisted improvement in the gender balance, although patently not enough. the commission will adopt the annual target for 2001 next month. in addition to the policy of target setting, the members of selection boards are reminded of the principles of equal opportunities to be taken into consideration in the selection of candidates. the commission seeks to appoint the most suitable candidate for a post and, where there are equal merits relating to the relevant post, to give priority to the female candidate. the outcome must arise from objective assessment by the appropriate authority of each individual situation and is not therefore automatic for persons of either gender. in the case referred to by the honourable member, the advisory committee on appointments shortlisted a female candidate with good qualifications. the commission considered that the candidate chosen had a profile more particularly related to the tasks of the post in question.
commission. – as the honourable member underlines, the system that we are seeking to develop in the european commission does not yet bear any comparison with arrangements that have existed in sweden, and indeed in some other member states, for some years. we can do nothing more in the circumstances than continue to strive to meet the best standards which we heartily recommend to others throughout the european union. these are standards which i, and my colleagues in the current commission, sincerely want to meet. if i could respond to the specific issues raised by the honourable member: there is not enough representation of women at any level, including the managerial ranks, in any of the european union institutions. we are, as the honourable member was good enough to acknowledge, making a serious effort to improve upon that in the european commission. but in the european parliament, for instance, i think i am right in saying that out of the ten directors only one is a woman. the position in the council, if anything, is not even as good as that. so in each of the institutions, including the others like the court of justice and the court of auditors, there is patently need for very substantial improvement and i am very happy to have the opportunity at this question time in parliament to underline that very forcibly yet again. i believe we will reach the targets by 2005. they are not over-ambitious targets. indeed, several of us would argue in the current commission that they are over-modest. they are however realistic given our starting point. what we hope will be the case is that by securing that at least 20% of senior management jobs are in the hands of women by the end of this commission, it will provide the incoming commission with a much firmer and higher base from which to work towards genuine gender balance across the commission, particularly in managerial roles. i take the point that the honourable member made about the single-sex nature of the selection board. it is not in fact a selection board. it is an advisory committee on appointments. the final selection of candidates is made by the portfolio commissioner, by myself as the commissioner for personnel administration, and the president. the basis on which the selection was made, as i said earlier, involved no criticism of, or disrespect for, the high qualifications of the woman candidate who came before us; it related, as i said, to the fact that the candidate chosen had a profile more particularly suited to the tasks of the post in question. no preference on gender grounds was shown towards a man.
mr president, following on the discussion, would mr kinnock like to confirm to the house that career development based on performance and merit is going to be the foundation of the reforms that we approved in this house last year? will he also take the opportunity to tell us what progress he is making in introducing structured performance appraisal throughout the commission and in his moves towards a linear career structure.
commission. – mr president, i imagine that the involvement of the guardia civil in these circumstances probably relates to what you identified yourself: in circumstances where there is a failure to comply with the law by some meat plant or somebody else who has a responsibility to handle meat, a criminal offence may very well have taken place and in such circumstances it is probably appropriate that there is a criminal investigation. the specifics of the involvement of the guardia civil in this particular issue is something that i have not got any detailed information on but i assume that the involvement is in the way that i have identified. in response to your question about the culling of animals in circumstances where there is a positive finding relating to a herd, at present it is a decision for the member state involved to determine whether it is appropriate to cull the entire herd or not. it is a matter for the member state to decide. some member states do that. other member states choose to kill all cohorts which is obviously a different defence or protection measure and there are those who take the view that it is at least as good and may even be better. as i stated, it is a matter for each member state to decide how to respond in these circumstances. i also wish to draw your attention to the fact that the tse regulation is now passing through the legislative process, as i mentioned in answer to an earlier question. that regulation provides for the culling of the herd and the killing of cohorts and it also provides for other measures that a member state notifies to the commission which the commission, through its scientific advisers, is satisfied provides at least the same degree of protection for consumer health. that other measure can be allowed in those circumstances. in reply to your question on the culling of the entire herd, that is a matter entirely within the competence of the member state to decide.
mr president, can i ask the commissioner specifically: are bones for soup stock other than the vertebrae and skull perfectly safe and all right to use? is osso buco, which i think is made from the shank of cattle, all right to eat and is oxtail, which is actually i suppose an extension of the vertebrae, all right to eat?
commission. – mr president, i would like first to thank the rapporteur, mr bowe, and the members of the committee for their excellent and flexible cooperation during conciliation on such a complex piece of legislation. we are now nearing the end of a long debate which started as long ago as december 1996 when the commission presented the report on the review of directive 90/220 concerning gmos. during that period the european public has become increasingly aware of the application of new technologies and has raised genuine and rightful concerns, in particular, with respect to the different ways that biotechnology can affect everyday life. the commission has no doubt that this piece of legislation responds to these concerns in a transparent and responsible manner and constitutes an important first milestone towards restoring public and market confidence. during the debate, several members of parliament reminded the commission of its intention to present appropriate proposals concerning traceability and labelling of gmos and products derived from them. the process has already started and i can confirm that the interservice consultation within the commission on a draft proposal for a european parliament and council regulation concerning traceability and labelling of gmos was launched yesterday and will be decided in the commission at the beginning of march. this proposal will, among other things, ensure that each consumer product which contains a gmo will be marked as such on the label. it will also ensure that gmos can be identified at all stages of the production chain. it will allow control measures for withdrawal from the market in case of unforeseen events after placing on the market and appropriate labelling. by june 2001 the commission will present labelling proposals which are designed to give consumers more information about food derived from gmos. we are in particular considering moving away from the present approach of the dna-protein criterion. such an approach will give consumers maximum choice between genetically modified and conventional products. these proposals will include processed food in the labelling systems. finally, i will again reaffirm the commission's intention to present before the end of the year, a proposal for a directive on environmental liability which will include gmos. as i said before, we are now approaching the end of a long debate concerning the revision of directive 90/220. this text already includes general legal obligations concerning traceability and labelling. it will set the basic rules for an overall legislative framework in biotechnology. it is therefore of the utmost importance that this directive is adopted now, paving the way towards a strict, transparent, efficient and predictable authorisation system for gmos.
rapporteur. – mr president, after three years' work on this report it is difficult not to be a little emotional. having heard what has been said by my colleagues tonight, i want first of all to say how much i appreciate the kind words about the work i have done in the last three years and how delighted i am with the final outcome: a set of legislation which will provide the toughest laws on gmos in the world. there is no question that this house and the other european institutions will be taking their responsibilities to the people of europe seriously when they approve this legislation tomorrow. there is one point of confusion which i wish to clear up. many speakers have spoken about the problem of a moratorium. this is an informal gentleman's agreement, as it is called, between the commission and the council. approving our legislation tomorrow will do nothing to lift this moratorium or change the situation with regard to the moratorium. that is a decision that has to be taken between the member states and the commission. what they do will decide what happens to the moratorium, not what we do tomorrow. what we must do tomorrow is support this piece of legislation because without it we do not go forward, we go backwards. without it, we do not go forward into a strong regime of legislative control, we go backwards to the old directive, the discredited directive, which is of no use to any of us. it has caused the commission and the council to halt the approval of gmos and has caused this parliament to work for nearly three years on replacing it. we know very well that this is just the first step in the process. there is other legislation under way. we had the privilege – and i thank the commission for this – of seeing its draft legislation, the regulation which has already today been passed for consultation within the commission. at first appearance, this document seems to be an important and very good step in the right direction and i am sure it is going to join the 92/20 revised directive within months as part of the legislative framework to control gmos. i can only say to the house that we must accept our responsibilities. we must do what we have to do for the people of europe and that is to support this piece of legislation tomorrow.
mr president, with an issue of this importance it is necessary that we indicate to those still on the premises that a vote is taking place. it is very unusual for a vote to be called in this way with about 12 members in the house. many others outside are completely unaware – as are those of us who are here who happen to wish to speak in this debate – that this issue is being considered. if there is a way in which you can alert those on the premises of parliament to that fact that there is a vote and adjourn until they are present, maybe we will get a more representative result.
mr president, i am sorry that most of those who sought to stop this debate did not bother to stay to hear it. i compliment the rapporteur on her report and all the work she has put in. food supplements can be a tonic or a health aid. in rare cases the nature of the supplement or the nature of an individual mean that too great a dosage could be harmful, and so, for generations, we and other countries have set safe upper limits. with these and with proper labelling the consumer can exercise a safe, free and informed choice. in britain, ireland and elsewhere we have not gone down the route of some of our fellow member states, which is to take the recommended minimum daily allowance that was set by the american government in 1943 to ensure that gis serving in europe did not suffer from scurvy and beri beri, and to treat that as the basis for maximum intake before classification as a pharmaceutical. we fear that route leads to higher costs to consumers or an incentive to use unregulated foreign suppliers. our belief is that the two systems can coexist. that is the purpose of amendment no 50, in my name and that of mrs doyle and others. it allows the rda to be taken into account when it is close to the upper safety limit. i believe that the positive list, as it stands, is far too limited. we should at the very least expand it by the amendments to this effect. labelling must allow for accurate health messages, such as for folic acid. lastly, i support the reinstatement of the word "physiological" alongside "nutritional", as otherwise a significant number of items on sale and acceptable today could risk being banned. it was a word included, i believe, at the behest of the council's working party of experts. folic acid is an example. these are not just my views and those of my delegation. they are the views of the british labour government and, more importantly, the views of the new uk food standards agency.
mr president, i am glad to be able to follow someone who has so vigorously supported the labour government, as mr bowis just did. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur after the sometimes stormy passage of her report and the mini-ambush which she almost suffered tonight. in the uk we are the largest manufacturer – and indeed consumer – of health supplements of one kind or another, vitamin and mineral supplements to the diet. we have been stringent in ensuring that false claims are never made for them, and that is why in the uk they have never been marketed as medicines. but they do bring benefits to millions who would accept that they are a supplement to, but not a substitute for, a balanced diet. we believe that the upper safe levels are sufficient to make the difference between foods and medicines even clearer. obviously the situation is different in some other member states, and any attempt to regularise the position makes sense in the general context of emergent food law. i support the rapporteur's view that all substances which have been validly in use in the member states, according to the laws of those countries, should continue until such time as they can be tested and perhaps found wanting. i rather doubt if many will be, and i do not think that the annexes themselves contain anything like the number of exceptions that we should see. with every day that passes, we hear of other substances which are causing concern because they may be excluded. that is why the word physiological – and i would beg the rapporteur to think again even at this late hour – is important in terms of people who are genuine sufferers and who derive great benefit from these products. we ought to hear from the commissioner tonight that there will be measured progress towards effective analysis by the requisite deadline, be that 2004 or later. effective labelling, so that the consumers can choose both the context and the regularity of what they are getting, is the best way forward. that will help many consumers and worry none.
mr president, in the uk there are no specific laws controlling the sale of supplements sold as food. as a consequence, the uk consumers enjoy access to a relatively wide-range of products with minimal restrictions and competitive prices. no one is forced to buy these products and those that do buy them tend to be well informed about their purchases. thus, for the commission to suggest that we approximate our laws on food supplements is in fact to propose creating laws that do not exist at present in the uk. the reason the uk government has not created them is that there has been no need for them. by and large the market regulates itself and where false claims are made, unsound or potentially dangerous products are marketed, the existing legal structures have proven adequate. nor in the market where there is considerable international trade have any particular difficulties been experienced with the movement of goods and a healthy trade on the internet has developed and is expanding. there would seem to be scope for the admirable dictum: "if it ain't broke, don't fix it". apart from keeping the technocrats busy with yet more interference in other people's lives, there is no need for additional law in this sphere. the commission should not be attempting to make it. we would be better off without it.
mr president, this amendment to the directive is part of the process of tidying up the loose ends not covered by the auto/oil programme. i cannot wait for the other directives coming along on small pleasure craft and the small spark ignition engine which will complete the story. motorcycles constitute a very small percentage of traffic volume. advances in engine technology for cars and trucks coupled with a 6% rise in motorcycle mileage in the 1990s have meant that the proportion of pollution from bikes is increasing. i therefore welcome this proposal but with certain reservations. my major concern is the short time between 2003 when the new standards will apply to new models and the date when that is extended to all new motorcycles. this will put tremendous pressure on the smaller european manufacturers, like triumph and ccm in the united kingdom. although these modifications are technically feasible, small companies do not have the resources to do the work in only 12 months and the development costs would have to be recovered from a smaller volume of vehicles. this would put european manufacturers at a competitive disadvantage as compared with the big boys from the far east. i am pleased, therefore, that the rapporteur has recognised this by extending this transition phase to two years. i should also like to congratulate the rapporteur by leading by example by converting his own classic harley davidson motorcycle with a retro-fitted catalytic converter. it is not a case of saying one thing and doing another from that side of the house. i have some reservations regarding on-board diagnostics and in-service testing. regarding on-board diagnostics, a motorcycle is often the first vehicle that a young person buys with limited resources and therefore this will make the vehicle more expensive. secondly, i am rather cynical about what the owner of the bike will do when that little green light comes on saying that the exhaust system is not performing to standard. i suspect he may be tempted just to take the bulb out. maybe at this stage of the game we should keep these two balls in play and see how the game progresses towards second reading and possible conciliation. lastly, on the subject of fiscal measures. whilst i support market solutions like tax incentives, these should be applied by member states according to national criteria if they so wish. this proposal is to be made under article 95, that is to say qualified majority voting, and despite the 28 vetoes given up by tony blair at nice, the uk has not yet given up its right to determine its own taxes, and therefore this should not be within the scope of this directive. subsidiarity is something that should be protected.
rapporteur. – mr president, earlier today we heard in the context of the copyright and gmo legislation how it has taken three years for parliament to reach the point of being in a position to approve it. can i say that this report has been under negotiation for nine years and it is only now coming to fruition. since i took over the rapporteurship of this report i have tried to involve all the interested parties from the manufacturing side right through to the user side. on the manufacturing side, i have had several meetings with the european constructors’ association as well as individual bus companies. all of these organisations are happy with the common position and the amendments. in fact, they welcome the clarification it brings to the market. i have listened to the users carefully and i have consulted widely. it is only after these consultations that i have put forward the amendments that you have in front of you tonight. i would also pay tribute to the shadow rapporteurs who worked with me closely throughout the compiling of this report. unfortunately not all of them were able to persuade their groups to follow the line. amendments nos 1, 2, 3 and 5 are specific detailed technical amendments designed to assist the manufacturers and relate to gangway slopes of 12.5% on existing class i and ii buses. these amendments have to be taken in conjunction with amendment no 7. in amendment no 6 i am seeking to replace that with amendment no 10 which refers to the iso standard and not to separate member state standards which i had initially put in amendment no 6. amendment no 4 sets out in more detail the user groups that this report is trying to assist. this list is, however, neither exhaustive nor prescriptive. it was never intended to be and leaves plenty of scope for the inclusion of others. amendment no 8 opens up access to public transport to all those groups referred to in the aforementioned amendment no 4. for the first time, we are making public transport accessible to all those people with reduced mobility. this will be done by providing a kneeling system with either a lift or ramp but it also takes into account infrastructure improvements which have been carried out as well. maybe i should declare an interest at this point. just before christmas my mother unexpectedly lost her sight. as a son i obviously wish to help her, as i wish to help all visually impaired people within the european union. it is what i was elected to do and i am sure it is what the vast majority of people in this parliament were elected to do. these citizens are important users of public transport and they depend on us in the european parliament to get it right. we have that chance tomorrow by voting for those amendments. i must, however, also mention amendment no 9 which was submitted later by the ppe-de group. when this came up at the legal affairs committee it went through unanimously but then, all of a sudden, we heard that the ppe-de group wishes to reject the common position. i am sorry and disappointed that their amendment rejects the common position. that would set back accessibility for those citizens i mentioned earlier by several years. i understand that one of the reasons that they are proposing rejection of the common position is because it will shackle the industry. it will tie up the industry in red tape. can i ask those in the ppe-de who are intending to speak on this how they would feel if they were shackled to a wheelchair or to sticks or to having to have a guide dog? that is shackling, not what we are trying to do with the industry. i would be ashamed if their amendment no 9 is carried. i would be ashamed for every member of this parliament who puts their hand up or presses a button to vote for that amendment. i therefore urge you to vote against amendment no 9 but support the other amendments.
mr president, it has been, as always, a pleasure to work with my friend bill miller on these technical directives and i believe that we will have made a significant improvement to this directive if it is approved. so i will not go through the amendments. he has done a good job on that. i just want to address the question of why we on this side have chosen to propose a motion of rejection. it relates to the whole issue of whether parliament should be handling technical directives. i recall that in a speech not long ago in this parliament commissioner liikanen talked about some of the problems he is facing on potential pedestrian protection legislation for cars. he presented us with at least 60 pages of complex technical mathematical calculations and he challenged us: is this the sort of thing this parliament should be considering? this directive is 150 pages long and it has it own share of technical calculations, graphs, charts and other detailed technical provisions. the same arguments apply. i want to pick up on a point made by bill miller. he is right to challenge us on the question about disabled access, but he said and i quote him, "it will make public transport accessible to all users". regrettably that is not the case. if it were, we would support it. this piece of paper includes provision to make buses more accessible for disabled users, but it does not address the whole question of operating regulations for public transport systems across the european union. the issues which our colleague mr howitt quite rightly says we should be putting in here: changing the infrastructure to make buses more accessible for disabled users. what have we actually achieved after nine years? do we really have mutual recognition of technical standards between countries? have we really achieved the sort of significant advances in safety that we want? i had a look through these 150 pages. i may be wrong – commissioner, you may be able to tell me this – but i could not find in here any provision for mandatory fitting of seat belts. why is that not in here if we are serious about the council saying to us in this document that it has come up with a practicable solution with a high level of safety and user-friendliness. if we really had achieved that, then we should be proud of it. there are provisions, certainly, for things like strength of superstructure but the worrying thing here – and i ask the commissioner to address this – is that this is not all. at the end there is a list of things that the commission and council want to bring back to us. it does not address school buses. it does not address the latest developing technology of buses. there are going to be new provisions for superstructures. when is all this going to end? when are we going have realistic and sensible measures and the sort of technical committee structure that this parliament asked you to introduce at first reading in 1997 and which is simply dismissed here? i quote in conclusion: "the commission was unable to support the approach and in consequence did not amend its original proposal." not a single word of explanation. that is why my group will be recommending that this is rejected tomorrow.
mr president, there is much in the text to promote access to buses by disabled people – passenger handrails, non-slip surfaces, standards for wheelchairs and a wide definition of reduced mobility to include all disabled people. however, the key to tonight's debate is amendment no 8: a guarantee of level access to all new buses in urban areas for persons with reduced mobility. to achieve this requires a boarding aid, a lift or a ramp, because a low-floor bus on its own is not enough. our failure to agree this crucial part of the text would leave disabled people quite literally falling through the crack, a crack for which we would ourselves be responsible. the rapporteur – to whom i offer my heartfelt thanks – has forged a compromise which seeks to share responsibility for access between bus manufacturers, operators, local planning and transport authorities. but as we negotiate the final outcome i say to parliament and the commission that even a raised kerb at every bus stop can never be the full access solution. bad parking or obstacles on the pavement can still prevent boarding, whilst a simple manual swing-over ramp, built into the floor of each new bus, is cheap and will work time after time. yet nine years after this directive was first discussed, when the disability movement for a generation has put accessible public transport at the heart of its demands, those on the opposite side of the house threaten to vote, not simply against the amendment, but to destroy the whole directive. do they do so on grounds of cost? no. the study of accessible buses commissioned by my own government shows low operating costs outweighing the marginal extra capital costs, while a 14% increase in passengers brought in extra revenue. do they do so because of objections from manufacturers? no. a check today, again in my own member state, shows that british bus manufacturers and british bus operators are unanimous in their view that they want the directive to go through. do they do so because of a genuine difficulty at all? no. because the parliamentary committee that scrutinised these proposals in detail voted for them unanimously. mr president, my only conclusion, as we have heard tonight, is that those who oppose do so because they share the prejudice that disability access is an unnecessary technical detail. they are wrong. for a disabled person it means the freedom to travel or the restriction to stay at home. tonight we have the chance to grant that freedom to vote for accessible public transport. we must and we will.
mr president, as it is now after midnight, i say to you, mr president and to you, commissioner, happy valentine's day! this is a very good report. i say that without surprise as it is by mrs jensen, so of course it is a good report. however, it was a slightly better report before the committee on employment and social affairs ‘improved it’. some of the amendments that have come through have not made it a better document. i refer to just two aspects. the first aspect – taking my life in my hands – refers to some of the amendments of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. i strongly support women's rights. i strongly support the rights of young people, of old people, of disabled people and many other minorities. but only the women have their own committee to speak up for them. at times, perhaps, their voice drowns out some of the other groups, in my judgment. i take as an example article 3.1(1) where the original text said: "to the maximum possible extent analysis will be gender-specific". i agree with that. it should be gender-specific to the maximum possible extent. but the women's committee has taken out the words "to the maximum possible extent". apparently "maximum possible" is not quite maximum enough. i believe it was fine as it was. i use that as an example, but i am still supportive of women's rights. i have my tomato-proof suit on just in case you were thinking of doing something. the second point concerns the budget. i believe the committee on budgets made a reference to the budget increasing from eur 50 million to eur 55 million, but on the basis that this should be proportionate to the implementation. last year's budget was eur 50 million. only two-thirds of that was spent; 25% of that was eaten up by administrative costs. to go up from eur 55 million to 65 million – which is the latest amendment – is, in my view, disproportionate. it is a reflection of the enthusiasm of the committee for this particular project. sometimes it is all too common that in order to signify the importance of a subject more money is offered to it. i should like to hope that, increasingly, colleagues could recognise that money is not just a reflection of importance, and that it is possible to vote strongly for a report without increasing the money. i fear i may have to wait a long time to see that. given my advancing years it may be my successors who see that approach first.
mr president, i refer to the comments made in this chamber on monday afternoon with respect to the anti-nuclear demonstration at the faslane nuclear submarine base in scotland. as you are aware, i took part in that demonstration, and i would like to thank all those members who expressed support for the action that i took when i participated in the largest-ever blockade of the base and was arrested, ironically enough, for committing a breach of the peace. i just want to say a word to those members who implied that my actions were somehow irresponsible or inappropriate. firstly, nuclear weapons are not only immoral and inhumane, they are also illegal. the international court of justice in the hague ruled that the possession of nuclear weapons is contrary to international law, and this was reaffirmed by a scottish court in 1999. my action on monday was therefore upholding the law, not breaking it. secondly, i believe nuclear weapons pose such a threat to all of us that it is legitimate and indeed essential to use all peaceful avenues open to us to try to rid our countries of them. of course there are parliamentary channels to use to do that, and i use them, but i also believe it is legitimate and essential to use extra-parliamentary channels as well. it is our responsibility to use them. a democratic state is not just a gift and right, it is a responsibility. if citizens do not responsibly demonstrate against the operation of inhumane acts by their governments, the governments become increasingly irresponsive and corrupt. finally, it is the right and duty of every citizen, elected or not, to use all peaceful avenues to try to uphold international law. my action on monday was one further small step in trying to achieve that.
mr president, in welcoming my brave and gallant colleague, mrs lucas, back to the house, i would like to draw to my colleagues' attention that today we will also be visited by the moderator of the general assembly of the church of scotland; who will be received by the president this evening. in that connection i would like to repeat mrs lucas' point that it was implied in this house on monday that only irresponsible hotheads took part in the protest at faslane. i ask members to note that the leader of the scottish national church, whom we will welcome here tonight, also took a leading part in that protest. leading an ecumenical service, he drew attention to the church's principled rejection of states' reliance on weapons of mass destruction. profound opposition to nuclear weapons on both legal and moral grounds is a common position among responsible leaders of opinion, both religious and non-religious, throughout scotland and throughout this great union.
mr president, to pick up on the points that mrs lucas has raised, i support the sentiments which she has outlined. however, i would ask if she could prevail upon her colleagues to desist from claiming some sort of parliamentary immunity every time she gets arrested at faslane. long before mrs lucas became involved, i had been involved in faslane for many years and have been arrested there. i have never once called for parliamentary immunity. i had my day in court and i had my trial. i will not go down the road to parliamentary immunity because i want my day in court and i want to make my point and not hide behind some smokescreen.
mr president, can i just establish for yesterday's minutes a correction to my vote. i intended to vote yes on the rübig report.
mr president, my point also relates to the minutes. i wonder if it might be recorded on page 11 in the english version of the minutes, at item 8 where we talk about voting time, that the votes commenced at 12.12 p.m. they were advertised on the screen as commencing at 12.15 p.m. and for that reason some of us missed some of the early votes.
mr president, i would like to thank mr swoboda for his speech and also the report. my group supports the regulation, not only because of its technical and financial value to turkey, but also for the political message it sends. the regulation is a confidence-building measure. it shows we treat turkey's candidacy for european membership with the respect that it surely deserves. it squares turkey's candidacy with that of the other states, sending a signal that we will be fair and straightforward with turkey and setting an example of the political consistency that we expect and require from the turks. the regulation will trigger a raft of reforms. it is certain that the quality and pace of reform in turkey will be driven by the developing relationship with the european union. the next step must be the national plan, published quickly and fully responding to the accession partnership programme. we need this national plan to ensure that the momentum that supports european integration in turkey does not diminish. we in the liberal group will assess this national programme for reform critically but fairly.
mr president, the accession partnership sets out a series of important and challenging priorities for turkey to address as part of its preparations for european union membership. it will certainly test the resolve of turkey to carry out much-needed reforms in the area of human rights. a very topical aspect of this relates to freedom of expression, the functioning of the judicial system and the conditions in turkish prisons. this has been mentioned by previous speakers this morning and i spoke on this subject during our debate last month. following the adoption of a resolution by this house on the situation in turkish prisons, i wrote to the turkish authorities drawing particular attention to the request that members of this parliament should visit turkish prisons to see the situation for themselves. on 5 february, i received a reply from the turkish ambassador informing me that the turkish ministry of justice was willing to allow a delegation of meps to visit f-type prisons in order to see some of the problems and the steps being taken to overcome them. to my mind, this confirms the willingness of the turkish authorities to engage with us in a positive and open manner. it also demonstrates that some understanding for the turkish situation, some balance rather than a constant barrage of politically motivated reproach, is more likely to lead to improvement in those areas where we have justified criticisms. constant references to events which took place generations ago in different circumstances should be avoided. these merely serve to sustain generalised, stereotypical, negative images of turkey and the turkish peoples. in this context, parliament's facilities should not be used for exhibitions designed to whip up hatred and i hope that this sentiment will be conveyed by the president to the quaestors. let us look forward rather than constantly harking back. we support the swoboda report and the sensible amendments tabled by the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the commission on its synthesis report and on keeping up the pressure on the council and this house to deliver the promises made in the lisbon process. however, i would like to address one specific issue where the commission and indeed all of us are rather weak: that is the issue of regulatory burdens. we need to be a little better informed about the kind of regulatory burdens which we might be creating wittingly or, more importantly, unwittingly in the legislation that we pass. i see in the commission's synthesis report no more than four or five paragraphs on this very important issue. regulatory burdens and the reduction of regulatory burdens is a subject which is thick with rhetoric and clichés, but rather thin on action and practicality. it means that as legislators in the european parliament we are often legislating blind. we often deal with proposals that come from the european commission which do not have proper impact assessments attached to them. we then table amendments when we do not know what the effect of those amendments will be. that is clearly an inappropriate way in which to legislate and not a particularly effective way to pursue the goal of competitiveness. therefore, i urge the commission to reflect on this quite seriously and not dismiss it as just an add-on to the lisbon process but place it at the centre of its reflections and perhaps think of new institutional ways of creating an agency specialised in these matters. commission proposals ought perhaps to be subject to proper impact assessments and, similarly, mep amendments, so that we actually know what we are doing when we legislate in pursuit of this overall aim of competitiveness.
madam president, i would like to inform the house that, as a substantial rightholder in the audio-visual sector, i have a direct financial interest in the issue before the house and will accordingly be abstaining throughout. (applause)
madam president, there will of course be many members who will have some direct or indirect financial interest in this matter, in most cases to a rather small extent. parliament's rules of procedure however state that members must declare their direct financial interests if they are going to speak in the debate. i refer to article 1 of annex i of our rules of procedure. the rules do not require us to register such an interest before voting. if every member who has an interest is now going to get up and declare it before we start this vote, we will only start the vote at 1.00 p.m. such interests are registered in the written declaration of members' interests, so they are there for the public to see; that declaration will also soon be on the internet following the vote in the committee on constitutional affairs last week. (applause)
madam president, as i have declared it to other people already i thought it was only fair to declare it to this house that i will be abstaining because of pecuniary interests.
madam president, the same applies to me as a major international publisher and broadcasting company. i shall be abstaining.
madam president, following a point of order made by mr corbett, entirely correctly referring to the rules on this, i should like to draw to the attention of the house that on the previous vote of the bowe report, if everybody in this house who had an interest in pharmaceutical companies through shareholdings had declared an interest, we probably would not have arrived at the majority required. it is therefore important that members do not need to abstain on the vote. they need only to make a declaration of interest in committee or in parliament if they speak on the matter. otherwise we shall find we are short of majorities on a number of votes where people legitimately have interests. (applause)
madam president, this request from the edd group is actually an abuse of our procedures. if the edd group were really concerned with this issue, it would have tabled an amendment to the legal basis of the proposal at committee stage, or at first reading, or when it came to the committee at second reading. to come back now and make this procedural motion in parliament because they have failed to do their homework in committee is really abusing the rules of procedure. (applause)
madam president, i ask if amendment no 3 has been checked for admissibility, as it is wholly discriminatory on grounds of religion.
madam president, my apologies. amendment no 9 is discriminatory, in my view, on grounds of religion.
in writing. - the european parliament was asked to accept this agreement between the european union and the united states of america in the field of higher education and vocational education and training. as rapporteur for the european parliament, i supported this agreement, since such cooperation is essential in today's global society. i think both sides have a lot to gain from this agreement. european business and technology skills can benefit from learning from american professors and from american students. the same model could be reversed to help improve american knowledge of language learning methods and working in a multicultural environment. this is confirmed by the agreement itself, which was inspired in the united states by their observation and admiration of the erasmus programme. i am sure that the european parliament would welcome being more involved in the discussions surrounding this agreement and hopes that meps will be consulted at an earlier stage of the procedure than has been the case for this round of negotiations. the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport was not informed of the agreement until a few weeks before the start of negotiations with the us authorities. the agreement will be funded with eur 8,6 million over a period of five years. i propose that research should begin next year to see how this figure can be supplemented by private funding. the discussions between the commission and the us authorities have shown great enthusiasm for this idea and i hope that it will lead to cooperation between the european parliament, the european commission and the us administration. as i have already indicated in my explanatory statement, the programme would also benefit from a name which would increase its visibility among students, universities and the general public. part of the motivation for this programme is to serve as a symbol of transatlantic cooperation and it should therefore be as widely known as possible. i have also received positive feedback from the other parties concerned on this point and i am confident that it will be discussed in greater depth in due course for the next agreement in 2005. i personally think we should consider the following names, those of statesmen associated with american-european relations: churchill, eisenhower or lafayette, all names which i think are appropriate for this programme.
in writing. - compared with its predecessor, many elements of this new directive are to be welcomed. i particularly welcome the recognition of the direct and indirect effects and potential risks of the release of gmos into the environment. i am delighted that a public register of sites of gmos that have been deliberately disseminated or placed on the market has been set up. the requirement to stop unauthorised dissemination also clarifies the need for a coherent response. i regret, however, the postponement of the ban on antibiotic resistance markers and the accompanying reservation, the rationalization and shortening of the time limits for authorization procedures and a number of other factors in the final outcome. that is why i abstained from voting. the whole regulatory package is not yet clear: for example, with regard to liability and export to states that refuse gmos. nor am i convinced that we currently have the research capacity to make a full assessment of the factors contained in the directive. in this area, the needs of our environment and biodiversity should take precedence over everything else. i do not think that is the council's position at the moment.
madam president, i also welcome today's vote on copyright and the information society. this has been a very controversial and difficult area to legislate in but today we have achieved a victory for common sense. we can be confident that in our vote we are providing – for example, in amendment no 5 – protection for rightholders against potential internet piracy and we have also knocked out some amendments tabled by the ppe-de group which would have been very damaging for rightholders. at the same time we are not denying access of citizens to the brave new world of the information society and, in particular, to the more disadvantaged users and communities. today's vote means that we can now sign up to the wipo treaty and we can give international copyright protection to our creative industries. the computer games industry in my own region represents a third of the computer games world market. we need to protect these industries which create jobs and boost our economy – not just locally, but in the european domain. we can now look forward to future reviews of legislation and the work of the contact committee to ensure that there is no violation or abuse of copyright on the internet or any limitation on genuine private use or fair use.
in writing. - in the digital age, it is important that copyright and intellectual property issues do not prevent broadcasters from using their archives. we do not have this problem in the uk but we understand that it can be a problem elsewhere. in the uk experience we see no reason for this to be the case and that is why the british conservatives are voting against amendment no 11. however, if this matter cannot be satisfactorily resolved without going through the legislative process, we believe that it should be reviewed in the context of the review of the directive which will take place in 18 months' time.
in writing. - like other members who spoke at the beginning of this debate, i abstained from voting because i am a rights holder in the field of television documentaries and bookshops. none of these interests would imply any financial gain for me if the amendments were adopted, and in any case, like the rapporteur, mr boselli, i am opposed to most of them. in any case, the wisest thing to do is to abstain and to congratulate mr boselli on the successful negotiations he has conducted on a report which is so close to the common position and the balance achieved.
madam president, i am grateful for the opportunity to speak in the name of my group. yesterday in the debate, constraints of time meant that none of us were able to speak, but this is a proposal which we have supported wholeheartedly in committee and which we supported wholeheartedly today. i was particularly glad that amendment no 9 was defeated and that we carried the directive substantially in the form in which it left the legal affairs committee under the able guidance of the rapporteur, mr miller. this is a long-awaited directive and it is extremely important to disabled people. our own disability intergroup has been campaigning on it for a long time and so has the european disability movement. it has taken nine years to get this far. what we are accomplishing are secure, minimum safety standards for the design of buses operating in europe and secure basic requirements to ensure access for disabled people and others with reduced mobility, including older people – mr fatuzzo and others no doubt – and parents with children using urban buses. this is really important. my group wishes to declare its solidarity with all those who will be assisted by this. one of the marks of enhanced civilisation in my lifetime has been the far greater attention that we pay in public places and public activities to ensuring that our fellow citizens, who have the grave misfortune to suffer from one or other kind of disability or handicap, are fully admitted to public life in our societies. we can be proud of that and glad that this directive has been passed.
in writing. - today, this parliament can be proud of a vote that improves the rights of disabled people. in particular, this report is a victory for disabled transport users. it took nine years to get this legislation passed. the new technical standards we have voted on will guarantee access to public transport for wheelchairs. the text introduces minimum safety standards and sets out requirements to facilitate access for elderly people with reduced mobility and parents with children who want to board public transport buses. it is regrettable that the epp has tried to evade this legislation on a technical issue by means of amendment no 9. the european disability forum and the parliamentary intergroup on the rights of persons with disabilities have been campaigning on this issue for a long time and with great vigour. to play with the rights of disabled people is a cynical political manipulation. with the passing of this legislation, we can say on behalf of parliament that we are legislating for all citizens so that they have the same access and the same rights.
in writing. - let me warmly congratulate my labour colleague, mr miller, on his report on improving the accessibility of vehicles with more than eight seats. i wholeheartedly support measures to improve the accessibility of city buses for people with reduced mobility, whether through the introduction of ramps or low-floor lifts and buses. this will transform the lives of the elderly, disabled and parents with children in the north west who will now have the opportunity to use local buses as easily as other users. furthermore, the benefits will not be limited to the elderly, the disabled - including the blind - and parents with children. we are trying to broaden the definition of people with reduced mobility to include all those who have difficulty using public transport: people with heavy luggage, pregnant women and people with a stroller or a shopping bag. we have all boarded a bus with bags in our hands as we left the supermarket, and i, for one, naturally hope that my return journey by bus will be easier and less stressful. this is nothing but common sense measures which will make life much easier for citizens in europe, particularly in britain where buses are an essential means of transport between our towns and cities. the bus and coach directive will ensure minimum safety standards for the design of buses in europe and basic requirements to ensure access for people with reduced mobility, whether it is the continuation of the construction of existing low-floor buses or facilities better adapted to people with reduced mobility, in particular wheelchair users and parents with pushchairs. i am giving the green light to these measures and look forward to a more pleasant return journey when i return from the centre of bolton after a saturday afternoon of full-time work.
in writing. - i fully support the proposals to encourage a strategy for employment in the european union. we will only be able to combat the scourge of unemployment by working together across the 15 member states. jobs, jobs, jobs. i'm not going to give you a job. that's what this is about. that is what the labour government is fighting for and that is what europe is working for. this is our top priority and we must do everything we can to achieve it. the targets set at last year's lisbon summit were a key step towards establishing the conditions for full employment, with heads of state and government setting the eu as the world's most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy, capable of sustainable economic growth accompanied by a quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment and greater social cohesion. the stockholm council next march will continue to develop the european agenda for the creation of a flexible economy, the liberalisation of gas and electricity markets, the liberalisation of the postal sector, the reform of the financial services sector, proposals on telecommunications and e-commerce, measures to create a favourable environment for smes, and employment targets for the benefit of all citizens of the european union. union-wide cooperation is essential to exchange information and best practices, provide benchmarking, and promote innovative approaches and evaluate experiences. in britain our labour government is leading the way towards job creation and full employment. not only has youth unemployment been cut in half, but the government is now providing vocational training for young people to help them acquire new skills in a highly technological and constantly changing job market. the aim is to create a highly skilled and flexible workforce in britain. madam president, i wholeheartedly support this report, which is a further step on our road to full employment in a dynamic and knowledge-based economy.
in writing. - if i voted for the swoboda report on assistance to turkey in the framework of the pre-accession strategy, i think the eu should speak more forcefully to the turkish government about its human rights violations, particularly against the kurds. it should also ensure that appropriations are distributed fairly. in view of the renewed military repression in the kurdish southeast - probably aimed at provoking the pkk - and the recent arrests and disappearances of activists of hadep (legal political party), it seems that turkey is backing down rather than moving forward in terms of compliance with the copenhagen criteria.
- the next item is the report (a5-0023/2001) by mr lipietz, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the follow-up to the annual report of the european investment bank (2000/2173 (ini)).
president of the european investment bank. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank the president and the bureau of your assembly for suggesting that, for the first time, the president of the european investment bank be invited to speak in plenary on the occasion of the debate on the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the eib's activities. i believe that this is an honour, but also a sign of the european parliament's willingness to take an interest in the activities of all the european institutions, in order to make the voice of the citizens it represents more widely heard. let me also repeat to the plenary what i have already had the opportunity to stress in committee, namely how much i appreciate the constructive dialogue which has been established with the economic and monetary committee under the auspices of its chairman, mrs randzio-plath. as for mr lipietz's report, i found it both stimulating and useful, and i can tell the house that several of the recommendations in the draft resolution have already begun to be implemented. if you will allow me, i will address both these recommendations and the questions put by the honourable members in the following order: first, the operational priorities of the bank, then the evaluation methods, and finally external control and the transparency policy. first, the operational priorities of the bank. i would like to point out that the new corporate operational plan, covering the period 2001-2003, redefines our priorities in the sense of recommendations 3 and 5. we have included among the five priorities adopted by our board of directors, i quote, 'the promotion of environmental protection and sustainable development, particularly in the implementation of the kyoto protocol'. this trend was already present, as last year the amount of funding for projects directly contributing to the improvement of the environment reached eur 6.4 billion for eu funding, an increase of 39% compared to the previous year, and eur 740 million for funding in the candidate countries. in addition, we have reorganised our project management to ensure systematic environmental impact assessment of projects for which our funding is sought. as regards our contribution to the implementation of the kyoto protocol in particular, a general policy note will be submitted to our board of directors in may. however, as mrs peijs has very aptly pointed out, this emphasis on the environment must not make us forget other priorities. i shall take the liberty of recalling them very briefly. regional development: we believe that at least two thirds of the funding in the european union should go to projects in assisted areas. support for the lisbon strategy: we intend to finance projects worth between eur 12 and 15 billion in the areas identified as priorities by the lisbon european council over the next three years, and of course, as mrs van den burg has suggested, we will have to take account of the conclusions of the stockholm summit. the preparation of the applicant countries for membership: over the next three years we intend to allocate between eur 3 and 4 billion per year to projects which should help the applicant countries to meet the conditions of membership, particularly in the area of transport infrastructure, which mr von wogau rightly stressed. finally, i would mention, as a final priority, support for the community's cooperation policy, particularly in the context of the recent cotonou agreement. i now turn to the evaluation of the real impact of the projects financed by the eib, because this aspect has rightly been stressed by several speakers. in particular, recommendation 4 calls on the eib to carry out a thorough study of the real contribution of investment to regional development. first of all, i would like to point out that since 1995 the eib has set up an independent unit for the ex post evaluation of projects, a unit whose reports are sent to the board of directors as they are, without being able to be modified by the hierarchy or the management committee. these reports are then made available to the public and mr lipietz's report refers to several of these reports. the first reports were, of course, quite critical. why would you do that ? because we had asked this newly created unit to focus first on the cases that we thought were the most problematic. today we have reports on more projects and the evaluation results are much more encouraging. a recent report on a number of projects in northern portugal and southern italy shows that the vast majority of these projects have had a positive, and in some cases very positive, impact on the development of the regions concerned. however, the same report stresses the need to further refine the methodology, in particular to produce more diversified and more precise criteria for better selecting, a priori, the most promising projects for regional development. this is why, in close cooperation with the commission's dg regions, we are currently working on the development of a set of regional loan performance indicators. i would add that the same evaluation work is under way for global loans, that is to say, loans which we grant to intermediary banks, which in turn lend to smes or local authorities. here too we are trying to improve the means of checking that these loans are well used for the benefit of smes and that the more favourable conditions are passed on to the final beneficiaries of these loans. as regards external control of the bank, i can only endorse recommendation no 10 without reservation. i would like to confirm to you that the agreement concluded in 1999 between the court of auditors, the commission and the eib regarding the bank's activities on the basis of community resources is being implemented to the satisfaction of all parties and that, of course, the eib will continue to comply with its obligations towards the court of auditors arising from this agreement. i would also like to confirm that we are currently negotiating a similar agreement with the court of auditors on the control of the european investment fund, which has become a subsidiary of the eib. i would add, finally, that we are open to any practicable form of banking supervision. this is a matter which has been discussed by your committee. we are quite open about this. in any case, in the short term, it seems to us that perhaps the most practical way forward is to strengthen the audit committee by ensuring that it is composed of members with competence and experience in the field of banking supervision. finally, as regards transparency policy, we are prepared to follow the guidelines set out in recommendation 11. however, we must emphasize that, unlike the institutions mentioned in your rapporteur's text, the majority of the eib's clients are private commercial companies and that these companies obviously do not want the confidentiality which is the rule in commercial negotiations to be breached in relations with the eib. but with that reservation, we've decided to move towards more transparency. i can therefore announce that we will publish on our website a list of all the projects under consideration, even before they are submitted to the board of directors, unless of course the promoter, for justified reasons of confidentiality, should object. with that one caveat, all projects will be announced on our website. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the european investment bank is not a bank like any other. it was set up to serve the objectives of the european union. it is therefore only natural that she should be asked to explain herself before the european parliament. i thank you for the opportunity to do so today and i look forward to continuing the dialogue in the future, as mrs van den burg has kindly suggested.
- thank you, mr. maystadt, for the contribution made by you and your bank.
the commission is aware of the fact that the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the annual report of the european investment bank. i share the view expressed by the president, and which is included in the report, that the european investment bank is an instrument of the policies of the european union, but we must not forget that the eib has an obligation to make the best use of the resources at its disposal. the commission shares to a large extent the views expressed in the report, but i would like to make a few comments on two or three issues which i consider to be of particular relevance to the request that the commission and the council quickly implement an extension of the interest rate subsidiarity mechanism in the bank's lending, and in particular in respect of both external and internal lending. this is a difficult subject on which the court of auditors has clearly spoken out against it, raising clear reservations about its effectiveness. from the commission's point of view, it is true that we must do our utmost to make the instruments at our disposal for facilitating investment effective, but it is equally true that there are actions, such as in the field of the environment or the candidate countries, which, given the interest rate levels with which we are currently working, could be solved more efficiently by means of cofinancing schemes, for example through some of the current programmes. this efficiency would be even greater at a later date, when these countries were members of the european union. the report also calls on the bank to ensure adequate risk capital management and to make the necessary efforts to attract risk capital via the market, especially in those sectors which are in difficulty. the president of the bank has already made some reference to the efforts made. the commission, for its part, has supported the bank's ideas of achieving a better distribution of functions between the former european investment fund and the bank. we think that the current model, in which the fund has become the arm of the bank to carry out these venture capital investment projects, is a good model and that the current availability of increased resources is undoubtedly a clearly positive element compared to the previous situation. let me say a word about the greater importance to be attached to small and mediumsized enterprises. it is true that smes will be able to have this possibility of access to risk capital, but they will also be the major beneficiaries in the bank's innovation 2000 programme, especially in supporting information investments and the knowledge-based economy. this is in support of what was proposed in lisbon, but it also supports this possibility of action in respect of small and mediumsized enterprises. we believe that the issue of global loans, which are also relevant to small and mediumsized enterprises, should be highlighted. they will undoubtedly help us to solve two problems to which some of the honourable members have referred. first, to make a more efficient allocation of resources. let us not forget that these global loans now account for almost a third of the bank's new loans. the idea of greater consistency between the bank's activities and community policies is also important. i believe that all of this will be to the benefit of the bank's actions and also of the policies defined. a final comment: on page 18 of the report the commission is asked to carry out a follow-up action, especially with regard to risk capital and with regard to the control and management of interest rates. on this particular subject, i can tell you that the colleagues responsible for these areas, especially with regard to external assistance, are analysing the issue in order, in accordance with the criteria and comments i have raised above, to try to arrive at the best possible solution to use the bank's funds in the most efficient way.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the common position of the council on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles (com (91) 0173 - c4-0212/2001 - syn 228); - a5-0020/2001 by mr gasòliba i böhm, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the impact of liberalisation and the process of economic reform on economic growth in the european union (2000/2172 (ini)).
- the presidency said that it could not be here before 4 p.m. because - believe it or not - it is discussing the status of members with the contact group, which is understandable given the circumstances and the time they have in strasbourg. the representatives of the presidency are not here, but they will be with us as soon as possible.
the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the question of mr rocard is very important. the presidency therefore welcomes this opportunity to debate it and will of course listen very carefully to the analyses of all the members present on this matter. as mr rocard emphasises in this connection, the tampere european council conclusions were concerned with equal treatment of third-country nationals legally resident in the eu or the eea, inter alia by granting them rights and obligations similar to those of eu citizens. it therefore appears necessary to adapt the scope of regulation (eec) no 1408/71 as regards the coordination of social security. the coordination rules contained in this regulation are a prerequisite for the free movement of persons. if third country nationals are included, they will also enjoy the possibility of guarantees of so-called acquired rights; this is in contrast to the current situation where coordination is regulated only by bilateral agreements to the extent that such agreements exist. before the tampere european council, the council received in 1998 a proposal from the commission aimed at extending regulation 1408/71 to include third-country nationals. this proposal was examined by the council in november 1999. however, the council has not yet been able to take a decision on the proposal, as unfortunately there is no consensus on the appropriateness of the proposal and its legal basis. in parallel, the council is currently examining the commission's proposal for a simplification of regulation 1408/71. this proposal also calls for the regulation to be extended to include thirdcountry nationals. the council is currently in the process of examining this proposal for the first time. we are very much aware of the criticism of the council for the delay in this matter. it should be borne in mind, however, that we are dealing with a very complicated subject from a technical point of view. the technical review currently under way helps us to identify difficulties, in particular as regards a possible extension of the scope of regulation 1408/71. the political negotiations necessary to complete the reforms will undoubtedly benefit from this thorough technical review. as regards mr rocard's third question on consultation with the applicant countries, there are no formal consultations with either the applicant countries or the eea countries.
rapporteur. – mr president, i must say that i am slightly disturbed by the lack of response on one or two of the issues there, but i will come to those in one moment. my report deals with this regulation and, as has been said, it concerns a key mechanism in the implementation of the european union's goal of free movement of people in that it coordinates social security systems. it certainly does not seek to harmonise them. there are three aspects to today's debate. we have heard already about third-country nationals and the legal base which should be applied to include them in the scope of the regulation; the comparative lack of progress in including accession countries in the coordination process; and the update of the regulation in my report to bring it into line with the changes made in the social security systems of certain member states. i will say more on that, but touch on the other two issues as well. as has been stressed, a crucial factor underlining all these elements is the need to make rapid and positive progress on the commission's proposal for a simplification and modernisation of the whole of regulation 1408/71. it is essential for the council to understand that in parliament we have consensus and are determined on that point, whatever the differences that might appear elsewhere about the right strategy. we have been looking to the council for a positive response about the speed of that overall reform. paragraph 4 of the resolution tabled by four political groups makes it clear that parliament is no longer prepared to continue with the piecemeal amendments and technical updates – of which my report is the latest and, we believe the last example. we must now have overall integrated changes necessary to resolve the bulk of the problems currently arising from this regulation as soon as possible. that is why the amendments proposed and supported by the committee are technical ones. we prefer generally not to accept amendments concerning the scope of the regulation, the benefits covered, the changes in the competent authority and so on. our aim is to deal with this report most speedily so as not to give the council any excuse for not moving rapidly to the conclusion of its initial debate on overall simplification – again a point raised in the joint resolution. that is also the primary reason for my not accepting the amendments tabled in the name of the ppe, although i also have difficulties with the content of one or two of them. amendment no 8, for example, deals with occupational pensions which are not state-provided benefits and therefore currently outside the scope of the regulation. i also consider that amendment no 10 might be regressive in some member states, as it proposes a general condition governing entitlement to unemployment benefit. i accept that certain of the proposed amendments touch on some important issues and parliament recognised them in its vote on the report on frontier workers last month – again, as recalled in the joint resolution. such workers are of course an issue for accession countries. we are aware that free movement both to and from those countries depends to some extent on successful coordination of the social security systems. much of the debate about free movement tends to neglect the fact that people from current member states wish to work and establish themselves within the accession countries, and hence our interest in the state of those negotiations. personally, i strongly support the commission's proposals to include third-country nationals in the regulation and to do so on the legal base it has proposed. parliament should be involved in codecision on this issue, as it now is on matters relating to coordination of social security in general. the inclusion of third-country nationals seems to me to be recognition of the principle of equal treatment of those who contribute to the economic and social life of the union. the joint resolution recalls the tampere summit when member state governments stated that the legal status of third-country nationals should be approximated to that of member state nationals. i was at a european union migrants' forum conference representing the committee on employment and social affairs soon after that statement was made. it was welcomed as a strong indication of the union's desire to be anti-discriminatory in its actions. i regret that the council cannot yet uphold the proposed legal base and live up to the hopes it has raised in the eu's so-called "16th member state" of third-country nationals and among those of us who wish to see them treated fairly and equally. to sum up, i would urge parliament to move to a rapid conclusion on my report so that we can turn our full attention to the much-needed simplification and modernisation of the whole of regulation 1408/71 to make it more inclusive and effective for all of those covered by a social security scheme.
mr president, thank you for allowing me to put a supplementary question on behalf of my colleague, mr maccormick, who is accompanying the moderator of the general assembly of the church of scotland on an official visit here to parliament today. mr president-in-office, do you accept that this is a new and profoundly oppressive instance of the subordination of women and their seclusion into private life? for many years women in afghanistan enjoyed a fully public existence, participating in the professions and in the world of work and dressing appropriately. sometimes it is said that appeals to human rights involve imposing western values on non-western cultures. that is false, and this particular case in afghanistan shows it to be so. does the council agree that what is needed is a restitution of women's human rights and of the fundamental respect that they are due? surely more is needed than has been offered in the statement today.
the council. the record number of questions means that if not a record answer, it will be at least as detailed as possible. the council is pleased to inform the honourable members that environmental protection requirements under article 6 of the ec treaty are to be integrated into the formulation and implementation of community policies and activities, in particular with a view to promoting sustainable development. the strategies for integrating environmental aspects into the council's activities will be defined by the european council in gothenburg in june this year. it is therefore a little early to give details of all these strategies at this stage. the presidency and the commission are currently working intensively on these issues in the various council configurations concerned. in december 1999, the helsinki council set the timetable for the gothenburg european council and invited the council to complete the integration of environmental aspects into the council's overall activities by presenting overall strategies, accompanied if possible by a timetable of the measures to be taken and a number of indicators for the sectors concerned. once established, these strategies should, inter alia, contribute to the fulfilment of commitments under the kyoto protocol, complement national and regional actions and emphasise the need for closer cooperation between different areas of sectoral policy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs is therefore a step in the right direction. the implementation and monitoring of all this work has been entrusted to the commission and the council. as regards the council, it is the task of the various preparatory bodies to ensure, internally, through the various stages of the traditional decisionmaking procedure, a good coordination in order to respond in the best possible way to the call of the european council. parliament's participation will be ensured in accordance with the provisions of the treaty. the council, it should be stressed, shares the view of the honourable members and is ready to work with all the political and economic actors in this field to ensure the success of a comprehensive approach to environmental issues in the various policy areas concerned. as regards the integration of environmental aspects and sustainable development into all sectoral policies, much can be said about how and to what extent the council applies the provisions of article 6 of the treaty. without going into this question exhaustively - which is not possible because it is a very broad subject - i would like to stress some of the most relevant aspects of the situation. firstly, energy policy, which the council considers to be one of its highest priorities. the council fully supports the three important objectives set out in the programme of the swedish presidency for the six months. in this regard, the council reminds the honourable members of the council conclusions of december 1999, which already contain a detailed preliminary set of indicators covering the energy sector in general, including environmental impact, the energy market and energy efficiency. the application of these conclusions and the development of the indicators shall be evaluated every two years. the commission is also expected to adopt a final decision on the directive on the promotion of electricity from renewable energy sources later this year. in preparation for the european council in gothenburg in june, the council will examine a communication on the integration of environmental and sustainable development aspects in energy policy and the proposal for a sixth community action plan for sustainable development. both will be presented by the commission in the coming weeks. a number of actions will be launched under the action plan for energy efficiency on the basis of the priorities set by the council at its meeting on 5 december 2000. as regards the industrial aspect of this overall strategy, the council recalls that the report to the helsinki european council stressed the need for a strong contribution from the industrial sector to strengthen sustainable development in the economic field. at the same time, the key role of the sector in improving the competitiveness and innovation capacity of european industries in order to promote employment in industry and related sectors was reaffirmed. the horizontal nature of this question calls for better cooperation and exchange of information between all the parties concerned and decision-makers. i repeat: i hope that the conclusions which will be drawn at the european council in gothenburg will be of great interest. in order to demonstrate in concrete action the extent to which the council is seeking to maximise the integrated strategy on environmental issues, the council intends to draw up some conclusions at the council meeting in may, where both energy and industry ministers will meet to take this work forward. finally, on economic and financial matters, the council would like to inform the honourable members that the council submitted to the nice european council a first report on the integration of environmental considerations into the economic policies of the union and its member states. the gothenburg summit will again follow up this report and in particular examine how to develop a european strategy for sustainable economic development which takes environmental considerations into account. the ecofin council will no doubt be asked to apply such a strategy within its field of competence as soon as the european council has approved such a strategy.
mr president-in-office, thank you for such a comprehensive answer to seven questions. i would like just briefly to follow up one aspect, which i do not think you really touched on. what ideas and proposals have you got to continue the process of integration into subsequent eu presidencies? given the momentum of the cardiff process and the fact that this is all beginning to happen now, it is going to be quite a lengthy process and is not going to happen overnight. i would be interested to know what provisions you are making for the future.
that was a very relevant question from the honourable member. as i said, the swedish presidency, in close cooperation with the commission, is currently preparing the conclusions of the european council in gothenburg in june. it is at this point that we hope to be able to answer the questions raised by the honourable member. the so-called cardiff process is a new way of working for the union. we now have experience from a number of council configurations. some have done very good work, while others may have been less successful. we are now trying to gather all this experience and to formulate precisely the strategy and the ideas and proposals that the honourable member is asking for. i hope that we will be able to return in good time before the european council in june of this year to present more concretely in this house the views of the council and to listen to the views which parliament and its honourable members may have. i therefore ask for your indulgence and for the opportunity to return to this important debate, which concerns one of the three priorities of the swedish presidency, namely the environment.
mr president-in-office, thank you for that very wide-ranging answer. unfortunately, one of the problems of wide-ranging answers and short times is that you get breadth but you do not get depth, and i would like to ask for a bit more detail. i do find it quite extraordinary that you say it is too early to talk about the detail of some of these plans, given that the gothenburg summit is not far away. i wanted to focus in particular on the general affairs council. you will know that this is the only council that has not produced any documents in line with the council's requests, so i would like to know when we might see some more detail on that in particular? will we see a draft before gothenburg. if we do not have any detail on the general affairs council plan, can you at least say what kind of structure and shape it will take, what indicators it will be using and the follow-up and monitoring?
the honourable member is referring to the council configuration where it is perhaps most difficult to find the concrete action that sustainable development requires. i do not think it is a coincidence that the work of the general affairs council is the longest. that is why, unfortunately, there is not much to report yet. the honourable member feels that there is a fairly short time left before the meeting in gothenburg. i, on the other hand, feel as if there's an infinite amount of time left. i am very confident that we will be able to come back and be even more concrete about the possibilities for the general council to integrate environmental aspects and the principles of sustainable development into its work. i hope, however, that we can have a common understanding because it is perhaps precisely in the field of the activities of the general council that it is most difficult to find the concreteness which i believe we all want.
the commission is to present the action plan for sustainable development. the question should therefore be put to the members of the commission first. but since the issue is such an important part of the swedish presidency, i cannot refrain from giving the swedish presidency's views on what components the sustainable development strategy should contain. i think it is extremely important that in the strategy which we hope to adopt in gothenburg we clearly include three elements which should be included in the concept of sustainable development. it should be the ecological element, the economic element and the social element. it is clear that two of these elements, namely social and economic sustainable development, will be discussed at the stockholm summit. we are thinking of supplementing the discussion in stockholm on these two aspects of ecologically sustainable development, so to speak, and then turning this into a common strategy which can be adopted at the gothenburg summit. i would like to point out once again, however, that it is the commission which is holding the pen. we have full confidence in the commission's ability to produce a sustainable development strategy that makes europe even greener.
as a co-sponsor with my colleague, mr watts, of amendments which were put forward in the trans-european networks on a strategic environmental impact assessment some four years ago at least, i find it quite surprising that it is said to be too early to talk about a comprehensive strategy in this particular direction. if it is too early to do that, surely the council can provide us with some information about how it will properly coordinate this comprehensive strategy – when it comes into existence – across the various councils.
i think i have already indicated the answer to some of these questions. it is clear that each council constellation is doing its work in this area. the mandate set out at the cardiff european council contains a number of factors which each council configuration must take into account in its work and which are then aggregated. as i have already said, the framework will then become the strategy which the commission will present. it is therefore a matter of bringing together the different strategies of the council, depending on the constellation in question. these strategies are drawn up on the model ordered in cardiff, and then the commission's work remains. for obvious reasons i cannot go into more detail on how the commission will present its strategy, but i must ask that the question be put to the commission representatives.
i too should like to thank the president-in-office for his answer. i refer to the transport council and in particular to the latest report on the concrete implementation of the strategy, which showed a distinct lack of progress on many fronts in the transport field. the strategy raises serious concerns about the transport implications of enlargement, but the report did not suggest much in the way of concrete measures. what concrete measures does the presidency propose? such measures are essential if transport is to be fully taken into account in the enlargement process which, it is to be hoped, will result in environmentally sustainable policies.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0019/2001) by mrs peijs, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reorganization and winding-up of insurance undertakings (8975/3/00 - c5-0521/2000 - 1986/0080 (cod)).
commission. – mr president, the directive on the reorganisation and winding-up of insurance undertakings fills a major gap in the european union's financial services legislation. it is a top priority in the creation of a fully integrated market in financial services, as pointed out at the lisbon european council. it will ensure mutual recognition of legislation and proceedings as well as an appropriate level of protection for policy holders. it will avoid conflicts of jurisdiction and the unequal treatment of insurance creditors. the result will be quicker procedures and more protection for policy holders. the council’s common position, which has been submitted for consideration to parliament, is fully consistent with the essential objectives pursued in the commission's original and amended proposals. it is also consistent with other legal instruments on winding-up and insolvency agreed within the internal market. i would like to thank the economic and monetary affairs committee and especially the rapporteur, mrs peijs, for their judicious and efficient handling of this file. they recommend that the text of the common position be kept as it is without any amendment. they have considered that the objectives pursued in this area have been duly preserved through the common position. they have understood that the difficult balance reached on this technically complex text, after so many years of discussion, should not be put in jeopardy. i fully share their opinion. the commission invites the plenary to follow the recommendation of the economic and monetary affairs committee and to approve without amendments the entire text of the common position. this directive symbolises european cooperation, and the calmness of this moment in the plenary does not, in my view, reflect the magnitude of what is actually happening here. it is very clear that it takes a lot of time and seems very complicated now and then, but at the end of day our cooperation produces solutions to problems that can only be solved through systematic cooperation. so the system works.
- this debate is over. i am sure that the calm atmosphere is due to the calmness of the rapporteur. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0017/2001) by mr soares, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament: 'the european union and macao: after the year 2000' (com (99) 484 - c5-0169/2000 - 2000/2099 (cos)).
commission. – mr president, the european commission welcomes mr soares's report on the commission's communication 'the european union and macao beyond 2000' and we also welcome the draft motion for a resolution. i am happy to note that parliament and the commission have reached similar overall conclusions on how to approach the future for macao. i welcome the positive developments that have occurred in the macao special administrative region (sar) over the past year since the handover. we attach great importance to the people of macao being able to continue to live their lives with the rights and freedoms they have enjoyed for so long. we share parliament's view regarding the importance of the 1987 joint declaration and 1993 basic law as the main instruments for defining the status of the macao special administrative region. this is why the commission has given its commitment to watching very closely the process of transition and to helping the smooth implementation and retention of the 'one country, two systems' principle. in the first year since the handover, macao has established the required administrative institutions and adjusted to the new situation. the government, the legislative council and the judiciary have all made impressive efforts to adapt to the new situation. macao has also been active internationally in its own right in areas such as telecommunications, civil aviation and investment protection, affirming its individuality and autonomy in areas covered by the basic law. like parliament, we also welcome the fact that macao has been provided with a modern legal system, including an express ban in the penal code on the enforcement of the death penalty. a modernised legal system will be of great benefit when applying the basic law under the 'one country, two systems' principle. on our side, we will support their correct implementation where possible, including through our cooperation programme and particularly our legal cooperation project. we share the view of the importance of the 1993 eu-macao trade and cooperation agreement remaining in force to strengthen relations. we consider the agreement is fundamental to eu-macao relations and is the basic requirement for the development of increased business cooperation, especially business-to-business links. it is also the basis for improved cooperation in those areas where macao has retained its autonomy. we intend to develop our trade as much as we can and the situation is improving. we will be supporting efforts to position the eu better in macao by encouraging more investment by european companies and by helping macau diversify its economic base when the time is right. we are pleased that last year was good for macao's economy. economic growth was positive, reaching 4% for the first time since 1996. the european parliament report and the resolution call for a dynamic approach in the activities of the eu-macao joint committee. i can report that eu-macao relations remain extremely good. the joint committee held its annual meeting in brussels on 30 june 2000. this provided an excellent forum for both sides to exchange candid views and detailed information on the work in progress of transforming macao into a special administrative region. they also discussed ways to improve and strengthen bilateral links, including through cooperation and trade and economic relations based on the recommendations of the commission communication. with regard to cooperation, the resolution calls upon the commission to settle quickly the question of appointing a technical cooperation officer for macao. here i would have liked to be able to report that the nominated technical cooperation officer had been appointed in november as had been planned. unfortunately the selected candidate withdrew at the final stage after a selection procedure that lasted several months. we continue to consider the appointment of the technical cooperation officer very important. all in all, the situation in macao has been positive. the commission is finalising its first annual report on macao and hopes to transmit it shortly to council and parliament. parliament's report itself is timely, as its observations and recommendations will provide another source of advice to draw on when finalising the commission's first annual report. as i have already mentioned, we attach great importance to maintaining the rights, freedoms and democratic principles of macao and its people. the commission's report will look closely at the full range of issues that have characterised macao's daily life during the first year of the sar's existence. finally i am pleased to report that the chief executive of macao, mr edmond ho will visit brussels on 7 may 2001. i know that the commission will be keen to discuss with him the most recent developments in macao. i hope that some of you will also have the opportunity to meet him. i can assure parliament that the commission will continue to maintain an active watch on events in macao, especially those regarding democratic principles and human rights. the commission remains committed to assisting macao wherever possible and to helping it develop and realise its full potential. we also remain fully committed to keeping parliament informed of progress throughout macao's transition process.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0036/2001) by mrs lucas, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision adopting the position of the community within the ec-mexico joint council with a view to the adoption of a decision implementing articles 6, 9, 12 (2) (b) and 50 of the economic partnership, political coordination and cooperation agreement (com (2000) 739 - c5-0698/2000 - 2000/0296 (cns)).
rapporteur. – mr president, my report refers to the fourth consultation of the european parliament on the eu/mexico agreement. since it is also probably the last consultation for the foreseeable future it has particular importance. the report concerns aspects of the agreement that are not covered by the so-called interim agreement, i.e. services, investment and aspects of intellectual property. from a european perspective, the eu/mexico agreement is generally seen as a milestone in the forthcoming relations with latin american countries. it has the largest scope of any agreement the eu has ever concluded with a third country, providing ec operators with more rapid preferential treatment than mexico has ever before granted to any of its preferential partners. indeed, with this agreement, the eu has not only succeeded in achieving nafta parity but has actually achieved a result that goes beyond nafta privileges in a number of areas. among those are the ones that i focus on in this report. however, i believe that some of these gains for the eu are being made at the expense of the people of mexico. although my report approves the proposal for a council decision, it does so with some reluctance and with a number of serious reservations and recommendations for reform which i should like to set out now. first and most important is the issue of poverty in mexico. it is essential that the agreement more fully reflects the fact that mexico has an ambiguous position in terms of its development status. on the one hand, it is a member of the oecd and thus is considered to be one of the industrialised countries; but, on the other hand, it is a country with 95 million inhabitants where well over half the population – 65% – live in poverty. that means it is absolutely essential to take seriously the coherence principle of the european union. to me, the bottom line must be that a reinforced economic partnership with mexico and better access to mexican markets must not contradict development objectives and must not exacerbate the existing asymmetry between the two parties. it is therefore of considerable concern that in a significant number of places the agreement is likely to hinder, rather than to support, poverty eradication, human rights and sustainable development. i will outline some of these in a moment. a good example is the fact that the agreement foresees the almost total prohibition of performance requirements which will prevent the mexican side from specifying the terms on which it would like to see trade and foreign investment. that means that mexico will not be able to ensure that trade and foreign investment support its own emerging markets and its own development objectives. looking at the agreement in more detail, starting with services: for the commission, the negotiated trade package in services is: "of key offensive interest". indeed the liberalisation covers very nearly all sectors. so its terms and scope are very far-reaching. but, more worryingly, it contains a stand-still clause which, by prohibiting mexico from introducing any further standards and conditions in the future, could seriously damage the social and economic development and policy autonomy of this country. furthermore the agreement states that: "no mode of supply is a priori excluded from coverage". if that implies that education and health might be covered without safeguards, this is an area of further concern. i am sure members will recall that in the european parliament in 1999, in our response to the approach to the millennium round, we made a specific demand that health and education be excluded from the revision of the gats. it would therefore be inconsistent to include education and health in the eu/mexico agreement as sectors that could be liberalised. finally, mexican civil society groups believe that the mexican negotiators went beyond their powers in making this agreement, since the agreement establishes the powers of the joint council to dismantle mexican trade and services legislation, which clearly should be within the remit of the legislative power. parliament should support civil society in mexico, which is asking for this unconstitutional provision to be changed. on investment, the different economic crashes we have seen in mexico make investment a particularly sensitive issue. however, the definition of investment in the agreement includes direct investment, real estate and purchases of securities, and therefore seems to open the door to speculative movements and thus to further financial instability. i could go on citing more problems that we can see in the area of intellectual property rights, on conflict resolution and, indeed, on human rights. but to conclude in terms of where we need to go now, we need to have a clear statement from the commissioner about the agenda of the joint council meeting on 27 february. there are a number of key issues which i have raised which must be on that agenda. i would like to know from the commissioner present if and when we will get the agenda of this meeting, if he is going to include the kinds of issues that i have raised in my speech – and also in the report itself – and when we will get the results of that meeting of 27 february. the joint council meeting must include the competences of the joint council along with the mexican constitution, ensuring their compatibility. it must include effective monitoring of human rights. it must include a commitment to coherence and compatibility of trade measures and it must ensure that the european parliament is closely associated with this agreement in all its future changes.
mr president, this eu-mexico agreement gives me an opportunity to say that it makes a lovely change for the european parliament to be discussing free trade, something to which it usually pays just lip service. when this agreement was completed, however, my first thought was lucky mexico. here is a country which can enter into a trade agreement with the eu without having to join the club, without having to pay the membership fee or take on thousands of directives and regulations every year. why can't the uk do the same i thought. on another level i must highlight the observations of the rapporteur that there is an increased sensitivity amongst members of parliament about who makes the decisions on trade: whether it is the council or the commission. actually that sensitivity is not confined to this parliament. many of my party members and constituents share that sensitivity and are alarmed at the nice developments which seem to place far too much power in the hands of unelected commission officials. that is to say that i would not be content if the power was vested elsewhere in the eu, because the greatest sensitivity is that we as a country are having trade agreements affecting the uk negotiated and finalised by a third party, which may or may not be entirely in our national interests. further, as to conflict resolution procedures based as they are on a wto model, we have already experienced the banana war where innocent british companies have been penalised for matters which have nothing to do with them and over which they have no control whatsoever. altogether we are happy that the eu and mexico have reached an agreement but we do not believe that the uk should be bound by it. we would much rather make our own agreements on our own terms.
commission. – mr president, mr seguro mentioned at the end of his contribution the terrible situation in el salvador. i would like to take this opportunity to inform parliament that today i have decided to release another eur 5 to 8 million to support people in el salvador. this is quite significant. turning to the matter under discussion, mexico has gone through a radical modernisation process over the last decade. the nafta agreement has played an important role in this. it led to a major increase of trade and investment flows between the us and mexico and also canada. neither the eu nor mexico wanted the nafta agreement to result in less intense relations between the eu and mexico. we both accepted the challenge and decided to adapt our relations. this culminated with the entry into force last october of our economic partnership, political coordination and cooperation agreement, often called the global agreement. this agreement, which consists of a free trade area, political dialogue and cooperation provisions reinforces mexico's existing relations with europe. due to the very complex distribution of competence between the community and its member states, the free trade agreement is made up of two separate legal texts. the first, decision 2/2000, covers the areas of community competence and was adopted by the joint council in lisbon on 23 march 2000 after parliament gave its opinion on 16 march 2000. it entered into force on 1 july 2000. the second text covers the remaining areas – services, investment and intellectual property – and should be adopted by the joint council on 27 february 2001. the later text, which we are debating today, will liberalise services in two phases. firstly by including a stand-still clause which prevents both parties from introducing new discriminatory measures or reinforcing the existing ones. this clause only applies to discriminatory measures and therefore does not exclude the possibility of adopting new, restrictive, non-discriminatory rules in order, for instance, to protect the environment further. secondly, this decision provides for the elimination of substantially all remaining discrimination between the parties over a maximum period of ten years. the decision will comply with gats rules – mainly the obligation not to exclude any sector from the liberalisation process. moreover the text includes measures concerning investments and related payments which complete the undertakings already made by both parties at the oecd and through bilateral agreements signed between mexico and most of the member states. the european parliament has been invited to give its opinion on this second decision. once this decision is adopted by the joint council on 27 february 2001, the free trade agreement will be fully in place. but this decision has also a bigger impact. the global agreement will be fully implemented and thus the political dialogue and the cooperation pillars will enter effectively into force. mexico is traditionally one of the eu's most important trading partners in latin america with a significant growth potential, and the eu is mexico's second trading partner after the us. the achievement of the free trade agreement will provide ec operators with access to the mexican market similar to nafta. our trading relationship, which has declined over previous years, should improve markedly now that we are able to compete on a level playing field with the us and canadian products and services. we should be satisfied by what we have achieved in this area. the eu-mexico free trade agreement is the first agreement of this type which the eu has signed with a latin american country. apart from trade, we should make full use of this comprehensive agreement to further deepen our already excellent bilateral relations with mexico. the institutionalised high level political dialogue will provide a good tool to agree on common positions, on issues of mutual interest: for instance, un reform, efforts to launch a new wto round and the human rights situation of both parties. the agreement will provide us with new possibilities for cooperation on the basis of the guidelines laid down for the period 2000-2006, whether on strengthening the rule of law, judicial reform, tackling poverty or investing in human resources. it is a new, very ambitious beginning. i share the views expressed by most members in this debate, and we will be very happy to see this flourish in the coming years.
mr president, on a point of order, there was one specific piece of information that i asked for from the commissioner. it was about the agenda of the joint council meeting on 27 february. could he tell us if and when we can get hold of that agenda, what will be on it and what kind of report we can expect from that meeting?
commission. – the way the division of labour is organised will mean that we will, of course, inform parliament about the results of that meeting.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0315/2000) by mr ceyhun, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the initiative of the french republic with a view to adopting a council directive defining the definition of aid for illegal entry, movement and residence (10675/2000 - c5-0427/2000 - 2000/0821 (cns)) and on the initiative of the french republic with a view to adopting a council framework decision strengthening the criminal framework for the repression of aid for illegal entry and residence (106/672000 - c5-0426/2000 - 2000/0820 (cns)).
mr president, when i left the house of commons in the united kingdom in 1997 i thought i had got away from debates that took place after 10 p.m. it is very comforting, however, to see that we are able to debate matters of great importance later in the evening. i am also interested to note that in the united kingdom debates now seem to have been truncated into times that are well before 10 p.m. the balance of power, in that sense, has certainly shifted. i was privileged to be an immigration minister in the last government. it is important for me to emphasise straight away that the epp is in agreement with the aim of the french initiative. it is vitally important to curb illegal immigration and to deal with the criminals who are exploiting poor people to their own advantage, both financially and in other ways. however, sadly, as shadow rapporteur i am unable to speak in support of many of mr ceyhun's amendments, as i believe that these do not actually address the issue but could on the contrary have the effect of exacerbating it. in particular, it seems to me difficult to try to decriminalise the facilitation of illegal immigration for some groups rather than others. the notion that those acting with humanitarian intentions should be immune from prosecution is very problematic and certainly subjective. i, as a lawyer, also have to question why the law should apply to some and not to others. the humanitarian motives referred to in many of the amendments of mr ceyhun are, again, very difficult to define or to interpret in a fair and proper manner in a court of law. this does not imply that humanitarian organisations should refrain from aiding such people after their proper entry into a member state – i would very much support that continuing, and certainly being a feature in future – but rather that they have no more right to participate in any illegal act, in our view, than anyone else. in this context it also has to be stressed that illegal immigrants whose entry is assisted by traffickers should surely be no more immune to prosecution than other illegal immigrants. of course there is a difficulty with the implementation of a common immigration and asylum policy. i, as a british conservative, have doubts about that. but tonight i am perfectly happy that we should look at it in the context of how it will develop. we are not yet ready. we do not yet have that policy in place. given that such a policy may be implemented, this report appears at an inopportune moment. it is imperative that the parameters of the common immigration and asylum policy should be established before any inner standards – such as those addressed in this report – are set. improving the legal status of refugees, as stated in amendment no 2, is not, to my knowledge, part of any common immigration and asylum policy. as regards compensatory payments, the rapporteur does not detail how the money would be spent. an increase in the eu budget surely requires more justification than is shown. it is always important to distinguish between asylum and immigration: those are two separate issues, the latter of which is covered by the 1951 geneva convention. amendments underlining the importance of that convention are certainly welcomed by me and the epp. we support the french initiative. we merely regret that this report has appeared before its time and is unacceptable.
mr president, i want to congratulate my colleague mr ceyhun for approaching a very difficult and sensitive issue. referring to what mr kirkhope said, this is an issue of great importance and i could not agree with him more. i am sure he would agree with me that it is very sad that on an issue like this, which covers the pages of many of our newspapers, there is – to the best of my knowledge – no press here to cover it. we have also to recognise that this report is just one piece of a jigsaw. it is a very difficult jigsaw that we are trying to put together. we need a proper system of immigration and asylum that will cater for the needs of europe in the modern world. i say to mrs frahm and mr cappato that this is what we are aiming for, and i do not believe the rhetoric you used just now is helpful in such a very difficult situation. on specific points, mr kirkhope referred to his anxieties about paragraphs 11 and 12, and i know the points that he is making there. but the reference is to legally recognised organisations, ngos, with which all of us are familiar. we have to ask ourselves is someone or an organisation that is helping people in desperate circumstances escape persecution a criminal? are they the organisations that we ought to be legislating against? i would say not. we know, and others have said, that people escaping from these situations are desperate people escaping conflict, war and circumstances like that. that is why we need these measures. we must do more. we must do more to help those developing countries and help the countries that are war-torn and with regimes that we do not like. but we cannot do that overnight. i do not believe we are helping those people who are trying to get out by doing nothing and leaving the situation as it is, so they have to clamber into the back of lorries and suffocate and endure torture and misery. we have to make certain that we have a proper asylum system that is not skewed by the overemphasis on illegal immigration. our job in the new few months, as a parliament, will be to report on the commission's opinions in a way that reminds all member states that their national interest must not override our global and humanitarian obligations.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr ozan ceyhun for his report and to remind, as he did, that trafficking in human beings, especially trafficking in women and children, is itself a repugnant phenomenon and increasingly worrying, because it is not just a matter of immigration policy, it is not a matter of security policy, it is essentially a matter of violation of human rights and human dignity. globally, tens of thousands of human beings are trafficked annually for the purpose of exploitation. the importance of this subject does not mean - and i think this criticism is unfair - that we are obsessed with a project to build a fortress europe. this is a complex issue which requires great care in the terms used, and it is now at the forefront of the international agenda, and i believe that it deserved a broad global consensus when last december the united nations promoted the adoption of a convention against transnational organized crime, which includes two additional protocols, one on the smuggling of immigrants and the other specifically on trafficking in human beings. the two protocols in question were signed by 81 states at the palermo high level conference in december last year. the signatories to the un convention include all the member states of the european union and the commission. i myself have had the opportunity to appeal to the member states of the union and to the applicant countries to ratify this united nations convention as soon as possible, since it will not enter into force until 40 countries have completed their accession procedures. the european union can thus give a signal of its contribution to a global fight against trafficking in human beings. the members recalled that following the dover tragedy last june, the european council in la fère called for action to be taken against illegal immigration and human trafficking. the french initiative is therefore part of that concern and the commission has no problem in recognising that it deserves support in principle. but let us clarify the terms of the debate. i have been accused here today, the commission has been accused of paying too little attention to the issues of illegal immigration and, on the other hand, it has also been accused of not paying enough attention to the formulation of a comprehensible immigration policy. they will not mind if i do not refute all the accusations in detail at 11.15 p.m. and just tell them frankly that i do not think that these criticisms are justified as far as the commission is concerned. for example, there is a security component to immigration policy. it cannot be dominant or exclusive, but we cannot ignore the fact that there is a serious problem of human trafficking which also requires security measures. i am therefore surprised - i will not say that i am shocked, which is a very strong word - but i am surprised that mr georges berthu has only discovered a paragraph on illegal immigration in a commission communication which aims to deal with the subject of legal immigration and has not, for example, discovered that the commission has presented two proposals for framework decisions, one to crack down on trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation, namely to prohibit child pornography on the internet, and has not noticed that the commission has presented a proposal for a framework decision to crack down on trafficking in human beings for the purpose of economic exploitation, that is, for the purpose of promoting illegal work. in the same way as we are willing to discuss the french initiative, which is a very security-related initiative, the commission has already put to the council a proposal for a communication on a european asylum system, as well as a communication on legal immigration, that is, on the rights and obligations of third-country nationals who are legally admitted to the union. we are trying to define a balanced policy. the contradictory criticisms in the chamber prove that we may not be there yet, but they have not convinced me that the commission is not on the right track. we have two main concerns about the french proposal which separate us from the text of the proposal. the first is the legal basis, and it is not a minor issue. we believe that the french initiative must be based, in addition to the reference to aggravating circumstances, on a first pillar legal basis: the treaty on the european community, article 63 (3) (b). it is clearly from this article of the treaty that the community has been given competence in relation to illegal immigration. and it is clear that the community does not have a community competence per se in criminal matters. however, i would remind the house that there is case law of the court of justice of the european communities which states that in those cases where the communities have, within the framework of a given competence, a power conferred by the treaties to regulate conduct in order to achieve a community objective, they also have the power to decide that non-compliance with such conduct is sanctioned at national level by criminal sanctions. that, i believe, is especially true in the present case. we have a second concern, which has to do with the scope of article 1 (a) of the draft directive. as it stands today, the day i am speaking, this provision of the french proposal contains no reference to the profit motive. the commission is prepared to consider this approach, i.e. not to provide for the requirement of profit making, but this will require, in return, a carefully drafted non-exemption clause where irregular entry, movement and stay are the subject of aid for humanitarian reasons. only then will it be possible to distinguish clearly between humanitarian aid within the framework of international commitments, in particular respect for the geneva convention, and human trafficking, which is punishable as a crime. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that the commission believes that other elements should be added to the french proposal, such as the introduction of an obligation for administrative coordination and cooperation between the competent national services, the creation of a system for the exchange of information between member states and the imposition of an obligation on member states to take appropriate measures to provide humanitarian assistance to illegal immigrants. let me make one final comment. as foreseen in the tampere conclusions and in the commission's scoreboard, we have tabled a proposal for a framework decision on combating trafficking in human beings and we would therefore like the joint work of the council, parliament and the commission to make it clear that there is no overlap but rather complementarity between the french initiative and the two framework decisions presented by the commission. these framework decisions are part of a wider issue of combating illegal immigration, which involves a proactive legal immigration policy, as proposed by the commission in its communication of november last year, and also, of course, other complementary policies which the commission intends to propose to the council in may, in particular as regards the issue of return policy and the conditions for returning thirdcountry nationals to their countries of origin. i hope that the conclusions of the informal council in stockholm last week will enable us to take stock of this debate at the european council in lakan on a common immigration policy and a european asylum system which respects our international obligations and guarantees the stability and security of the member states of the union.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the council's common position - agenda for the next meeting: see minutes. (the sitting was closed at 11.20 p.m.)
draftsperson of the opinion of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. – mr president, as mrs plooij-van gorsel has said, research has consistently been identified as the key to improving economic growth, creating new jobs, a cleaner environment and better health. how utterly astonishing, then, that every country in the world and every member state of the european union wastes half of its most valuable resource, that is, the brain power of its citizens. it wastes that brain power because it fails to engage women in the task of science adequately. women are not encouraged at school level, they face discrimination in their careers, and this is something which we have to tackle in the european research area. i congratulate mrs plooij-van gorsel, the rapporteur, and commissioner busquin, both of whom have realised the importance of this gap. i am particularly pleased that commissioner busquin has upgraded the work of his directorate-general in this matter to the status of a unit, that he is ensuring that statistics are being kept, and that networks which help and encourage women scientists are being supported by the european union. this must be a key part of the european research area. we need, as the phrase goes, research by women, for women – so that the gender implications of the research we undertake are examined – and about women. it is important that the socio-economic aspects of the research programme concentrate on gender matters. why is it that almost every country in the world wastes the brains of half its population by not encouraging them? i thank mrs plooij-van gorsel for her support of the committee on women's rights' opinion and look forward to the gender perspective being an important aspect of the european research area.
mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report that provides a framework for the framework. i would like to fill in an important piece of detail within the framework. the oft-recited lisbon summit sets the overall objective of "making the european union the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy in the world". the biotechnology industry can make a major contribution to achieving this ambition. it is therefore vital that research in the life sciences is given the highest priority in the european research area. at present there is much despondency, even despair in certain areas of research. we are seeing moratoria on crop trials and new product approvals; deliberate damage to trial crops; delays in transposing essential legislation; verbal and even physical attacks on healthcare researchers; environmental scare-stories that are unfounded and unsubstantiated; harassment of researchers – even threats to life by animal liberation extremists; and the use of emotive and inaccurate terms such as "frankenstein foods" by antagonistic spokesmen and in the media. all these pressures, often exacerbated by weak responses by governments and public bodies, are threatening our ability in europe to realise the great potential which biotechnology offers us. certainly, a reasonable level of regulation is necessary but this must be directed towards encouraging rather than discouraging advances. only within such a positive environment will it be possible to realise this potential and be competitive in the industries of the future, in the agriculture of the future, in the highest standards of healthcare, in our contribution to third world development and the elimination of starvation and disease.
chairman of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. – mr president, we have a situation here where under rule 67 and rule 68 we can choose what to do now with this initiative. under rule 68, we would normally ask the council to withdraw the proposal. however, i have conferred with the rapporteur and others. the committee does not particularly wish to see this proposal come back. we would prefer to use the precedent which we established in the case of dual-use goods of a vote now to reject the council's proposal. members may be interested to know that in order to reject the proposal, we have to vote in favour of the draft legislative resolution. this is because, having rejected the modified proposal, the services automatically now change the text so that the text reads "council rejects". we are asking parliament to now vote in favour of the legislative resolution which rejects the council's text. i hope i have made myself clear! (laughter)
mr president, i should just like parliament to be clear about what it is voting on here. i am asking parliament to do as we did before – to vote in favour of this in order to reject the council's proposal.
in writing. - the british conservatives are generally satisfied with the lambert report, the initial version of which usefully dealt with certain technical issues. we have, however, specifically opposed amendments nos 8 et seq. these would have significantly extended the scope of the regulation, which should not be the role of disparate amendments. it should be noted in particular that supplementary pensions are not social benefits paid by the state and therefore cannot fall within the scope of regulation no 1408/71. the amendment also seeks to extend the scope of the regulation to taxation: this is simply unacceptable. the british conservatives will continue to reject, whatever the report and at whatever time, amendments which attempt to encroach on the powers of the member states.
in writing. - labour meps voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the free movement of persons, with a significant reservation. our delegation agrees with the tampere conclusions that the eu must guarantee fair treatment to third country nationals legally resident in its territory and recognises the need to address the shortcomings of regulation 1408/71/eec which does not cover third country nationals. however, it rejects the idea of using articles 42 and 308 as a legal basis. it supports the position of the council and of a number of member states which wish to retain article 63 as the legal basis.
mr president, following that completely incomprehensible diatribe from our colleague over there, i want to make a serious contribution, although the situation with the recommendation being rejected is somewhat different. along with my british labour colleagues of the pse, i voted in favour of the underlying principles and sentiments of the ceyhun report. in doing so, we recognised that the proposals were far from perfect but they did at least attempt to address the present situation. the european union and individual countries must do more to address the problems and circumstances in the countries of origin that cause people to seek refuge in the european union. progress in this area cannot be made overnight and, in the meantime, the interests of desperate people, understandably fleeing from conflict, persecution or other hardship, are not well served by pushing them into the hands of the unscrupulous and those seeking to make money out of trafficking people. the situation of organisations who assist asylum-seekers and refugees has been raised as a contentious issue, but the report recognises that these are legally recognised organisations, responsible and established ngos, many of whom have a strong and proud record of supporting the very people that this report seeks to assist. in voting for the ceyhun report we recognise the complexities of this issue and will continue to work for a full and common asylum system for the european union that has humanity and the interests of the most vulnerable at its core.
in writing. - we voted against the korakas report on aid for cotton production. the report proposes to increase quotas and fixed prices for cotton and to regulate the role of cotton producers' associations. we also rejected the izquierdo rojo report which suggests that more aid should be given to the production of nuts and dried fruit. both reports advocate protectionist measures such as the maintenance of the community preference system. it is not reasonable to use half the union budget to subsidize the production and export of agricultural products. we believe that community funds should rather be used in areas where crossborder cooperation is necessary. this is the case for environmental protection, reconstruction aid and development aid, which require more money, especially in view of the forthcoming enlargement of the union. the common agricultural policy not only costs european citizens dearly, but also contributes to higher consumer prices and lower quality. consumers are concerned about european agri-food production and are rightly starting to question the agricultural policies in force. export financing, which results in the eu's surplus food being dumped on the world market, is the underlying cause of the serious difficulties faced by agri-food production in many developing countries. the cap was set up to ensure food supplies after the second world war and not to subsidize unprofitable crops for textile production. the common agricultural policy has lost its political legitimacy in its present form and requires a complete overhaul. all aid to exports and production must be abolished. agriculture must adapt to market rules in order to open up to competition. all this will be achieved through increased efficiency and quality, which will have a positive impact on producers and consumers.
in writing. - the british conservative members of the epp-ed group voted against this report because we feel that it deviates too far from the commission's original intention of tightening up the budgetary control mechanisms. moreover, although we are concerned about the socioeconomic role of cotton in certain regions, we totally reject the rapporteur's position that cotton is less harmful to the environment than other crops. it is well known that a whole range of chemicals are used in cotton production, and we therefore agree with the commission that the member states must take the necessary environmental measures to regulate the use of agricultural land for cotton production. more specifically, the british conservatives fully agree that member states should remind their producers of the need to comply with environmental legislation.
in writing. - the current level of unemployment in continental europe is far too high. this is a direct consequence of the profound rigidity of the labour market and the administrative burden on businesses due to high costs and excessive regulation. to support a healthy economy and replace obsolete jobs with those of the future, continuous industrial restructuring is needed. more regulation is the problem, not the solution. concerned to see more jobs created, not fewer, the british conservatives decided to vote against this resolution.
in writing. - the labour delegation voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the social consequences of restructuring because we believe in cooperation in the workplace. we have some reservations about this resolution. the labour delegation, which recognises the need to assess the social consequences of restructuring, voted in favour of this resolution as it has no legislative character. we still reject some points. the labour delegation rejects paragraph 6 in particular. as was the case at the first reading of the framework directive on information and consultation of workers, it continues to express serious reservations. in january, stephen byers, the uk minister for trade and industry, announced that business and trade unions would meet in the uk to discuss and review the current consultation legislation in the country. the minister stressed, however, that the uk government remained opposed to european legislation on information and consultation. according to mr byers, "the uk's business structures are based on a system which is significantly different from that of the continent. in many respects, however, the directive reflects the business management model in force on the continent and not in the united kingdom. the directive is inappropriate for several reasons, but the problem is important and we need to solve it in a national context". (official report of the house of commons debate of 18 january 2001) like the minister, our delegation believes that it is inappropriate to impose european legislation in the field of information and consultation.
mr president, i would like to join mr dupuis and mrs iivari in expressing our sense of deep solidarity with lao exiles who are here today, and even more with dissidents who are detained in prison without trial and in intolerable circumstances in laos itself. on behalf of the group of the greens/european free alliance who are in parliament – and, i am sure, in a spirit in which the whole parliament joins – we very much wish to express our support for the liberation of laos. we cannot but remember here how much the west – the united states perhaps more than europe – has done, in times past, to destabilise and damage life there. we now wish to see an improvement. we know that laos has signed the un covenants on civil and political rights and on economic and social rights. it still must ratify them, and the government there must live up to what it has undertaken to honour. we call for this to be done in the name of human liberty and solidarity.
mr president, mr belder has graphically accounted for the dreadful situation facing people on the borders of guinea where warriors from neighbouring states, rebels against their own government, come and go across the border creating problems of refugees, problems of human suffering, death and destitution. we must do all that we can to bring this to an end. our resolution says that we must urge all the countries in the region to refrain from activities directed against a neighbouring country, and so we must. it says we must ask all the neighbouring countries to refrain from supporting groups that fight the conkary regime or make incursions into guinea's territory, and so we must. we want to see the speeding-up of the process that will lead to reintegration of displaced persons and the return of refugees to their country of origin. west africans themselves are doing great work in this direction. we in the european union must put our voice, and whatever weight we have, behind them to help them.
mr president, since 1998 eight states in nigeria have enforced a form of islamic law which allows corporal punishment, despite the fact that it contravenes both the nigerian constitution and international covenants on human rights to which nigeria has signed up. the effect on human rights is graphically illustrated by the case of bariya ibrahim magazu, a 17-year old mother of a young child. despite having lodged an appeal against her sentence of 100 lashes, the sentence was carried out in january without even her lawyers being informed. they were still preparing the case for her appeal in court. no attempt has been made to bring those who abused and exploited her to justice. this case highlights the increasing anxiety about human rights abuses in nigeria. people of different religious beliefs have coexisted peacefully in nigeria in the past, yet george carey, the archbishop of canterbury, on his recent visit to the country, underlined the growing international concern about developments there. the christian minority are not allowed to build churches or to teach their religion in schools. in areas where muslim law is enforced men and women are not allowed to travel on the same public transport, and boys and girls have to be taught in separate schools. in the state of kaduna it is estimated that 2000 people have been killed in fighting between christians and muslims over plans to introduce the new islamic code of law. yet human rights groups of both faiths are now campaigning on these issues. the resolution we have before us sends out two clear messages. the first is that we in the european parliament are not prepared to ignore human rights abuses anywhere and so we condemn without reservation the treatment of bariya ibrahim magazu and call upon the nigerian government to prevent any repeat of such abuse in future. but the second is that we are also making a commitment, as a parliament, to support the creation of a democratic and just society in nigeria by strengthening the dialogue between ourselves and that country.
mr president, i deeply regret the need for this resolution concerning journalists condemned to death for blasphemy for what is claimed to be a mistake. it is the latest in a whole succession of human rights abuses in pakistan: growing religious intolerance – which we have just been hearing elsewhere in the world – the lack of a fair trial, so-called honour killings of women, child imprisonment and so on. i currently hold passport and other details for a constituent of mine, a pakistani citizen, who has had to travel there for family reasons and in the past has had difficulty leaving that country, even under the previous regime. this highlights the appalling state of affairs that we now see with the present regime in power in pakistan. the suspension of a constitution, as mentioned in the resolution, and the constitutional court, has removed a crucial safeguard for him and others like him who fear arbitrary detention. the state of affairs there appals many pakistanis, both within the country and throughout the world, people who are proud of their religious faith and who are also committed to fundamental human rights.
president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is exactly one year - indeed, it will be one year tomorrow - since the commission adopted the white paper on the reform strategy. the commission has already dismissed two important aspects of the white paper this year, namely the reform of financial management and the new system for planning and scheduling the commission's work. the commission has also completed this morning, in the time allotted, the third and most substantial and complex phase of the work announced in the white paper, with the adoption of the guidelines on staff policy and management, which, as you know, is one of the most sensitive points of our administrative reform. it opens now - it starts today: at 4 p.m. we will have the first meeting with the trade unions and the staff - a further phase of consultation and concertation, equally important and equally demanding, involving all the staff as a whole and all the representatives. only at the end of this process, which will last a few months, will the commission define its position. in a few months' time we will have to achieve the fundamental objective we have set ourselves, namely to be, in the years to come, a good employer offering competitive conditions to attract the best qualified people to the european institutions and allowing its staff to express themselves at the highest levels of efficiency, professionalism and responsibility. it has taken a lot of work to get to this point and so i would first of all like to thank neil kinnock and his staff for the great effort they have put into the painstaking preparation of these documents. let me also pay tribute to the staff of the commission and all the institutions for their efforts this year. it has been a difficult year and i realise that there are sectors of our staff who are disturbed by these rapid, profound changes and who have often overlapped with an already burdensome day-to-day work. we could not, however, postpone a thorough review of the commission's organisational model: we have made a commitment to you and the work is absolutely urgent and indispensable; this is the first time in decades that such a complete reorganization has been done. we therefore intend to devote all our energies to a wide and intense discussion on the guidelines and details of the reform, so that it becomes a common heritage for all, so that everyone is committed to taking it forward. however, i would like to take this opportunity to reiterate a fundamental concept: the reform is not and has never been a political objective in itself, that is, detached from its broader institutional and political context. it is part of a clear project which has promoted peace and democracy in europe, creating a model of cooperation and development based on the principle of the rule of law and respect for fundamental values. the institutions of this original model, the european union institutions, have played a fundamental role in this process and it is extraordinary to see - this is one of the things that has struck me most since i have been here in brussels - how much people working in the institutions think of their work as something really different from any other work; there is a strong feeling of being part of a historic project, the building of europe. this widespread motivation is the originality and strength of the administrations of the community institutions, and it is on this new foundation that we are building the new european bureaucracy, different but synergistic to the bureaucracy of the national states. the awareness of this originality is the inspiration for the guidelines we have adopted today: reforming outdated rules and customs, so that the institutions can meet the challenges of the years ahead while maintaining a clear vision of the european project. the guidelines for reforming human resources policy and management are based on three guidelines: first, we want to guarantee the levels of pay and pensions necessary for an independent and high-level european civil service. secondly, we want to redesign working conditions so that our staff are able to work to the best of their abilities, enriching themselves professionally and having their rights recognised, with the ambition of ensuring the right balance between the satisfaction of working life and the demands of private life; thirdly, we want to create a more modern career structure to enable our staff to adapt to new tasks, by removing the rigidities that have been created over the years and by reinforcing responsibility and merit at all levels. a major investment programme in training will be an indispensable complement to achieving the objectives. i must say that training has always been neglected, partly because, yes, high-level staff were coming in, but with modern changes, however high-level the staff is, it needs continuing training. in essence, the aim of this package of reform initiatives is to enhance the energies and skills of our staff. we all have a political duty to make this reform a success if we want the institutions - and the commission in particular - to be able to play their full role as the driving force behind integration in the years ahead. this yard is already open and is called the 'future of europe'. the guidelines we have adopted today, which we will be submitting to open and thorough consultation of all staff, are an important step in this direction. (applause) i would like to thank
commission. – madam president, as i have said here before, the central purpose of the reform of the european commission is to strengthen the performance, confidence and vital independence of the institution in order to ensure that the standards of service which the great majority of staff want to provide and the public has the right to expect are available to the european union. from the outset we have been working to fulfil that purpose by modernising structures and systems, by focusing more directly on priorities, by making unprecedented provision for the allocation of individual responsibility at all levels and by prioritising the use of people and of financial resources. in the twelve months since the prodi commission adopted the reform strategy white paper we have achieved significant advance in all those areas. many honourable members are familiar with the details and i thank them for their very close interest. we will return to those details on future occasions. compiling and implementing the very substantial changes has, of course, required immensely hard work and dedication. the people most directly involved have typically worked over 70-hour weeks throughout the last 15 or 16 months. i thank them and i pay tribute to them. i also strongly commend the much larger numbers of staff for their diligent commitment in coping with extensive reorganisation and innovation – much of it very complex and testing – and simultaneously fulfilling the primary tasks of the commission. their ability and willingness to adapt to change is truly worthy of praise. it certainly contradicts the crude caricatures of the eurocrat. such people need to have a modern working environment and progressive career prospects in order to enable them to do a good job even better, with more explicit recognition of their capabilities. that requires investing finance, time and effort. it also requires treating effective management, which is essential for a knowledge-based organisation like the commission, as a core task of the institution. today the college unanimously adopted a series of proposals and guidelines for fulfilling those objectives, including guidelines on a new, more linear career system and on pay and pensions. we will immediately carry out thorough consultations with staff and staff representatives on all these documents in the months until mid-july. these proposals are all available to the house. i will, therefore, briefly outline the principal purposes of the comprehensive changes. they are based firmly on the reality that the most valuable resource of any administration is its staff. the commission is no exception and the fact that the general quality of staff is high is evident in the continuing essential policy performance of the commission. the institution has not, however, used human resources policies that are appropriate to the changing responsibilities and needs of the institution as an organisation. our proposals therefore make provision for changes to ensure, first, that officials’ careers depend primarily on their demonstrated abilities, their proven performance and their willingness to accept responsibilities and that they should all have the benefit of objective annual appraisal. secondly, the changes should ensure that career development opportunities for all staff are maximised by removing glass ceilings and rigidities and by providing officials with career guidance, appropriate training and real possibilities for greater mobility both inside the institution and externally. thirdly, they should ensure that managers are responsible for their staff, are given the support that they need and are evaluated on their achievements. that is a radical change in established custom and practice. we propose to make that change in all respects in the interest of managers, the people that they manage and the institution. fourthly, the working conditions of commission staff should better reflect the practices of national administrations in the member states. making provision for parental leave for commission staff for the first time, improving working conditions and facilitating flexible employment arrangements such as part-time working are crucial to achieving equality of opportunity and practice and to improving career development. fifth, and finally, the commission must progressively begin to make the necessary investment to ensure that staff can reinforce and broaden skills throughout their professional careers. we propose a five-fold increase in the budget available for training over the next five years. it will still not bring the commission’s proportionate training expenditure up to the average level of european union member states. it will, however, be a significant advance that can be made without imposing undue pressures on the budget. for the institutions to continue to discharge their obligations successfully they obviously need to continue to attract high-ability, multilingual staff, the majority of whom will spend most of their professional life in a public service outside their home country. there is increased and increasing competition for qualified international staff in many areas including multilingual, multi-skilled secretaries, it specialists, scientific researchers, international trade and market specialists, competition lawyers, financial experts of every kind and many more. the commission considers that the realities of expatriate work and life, of significant responsibilities and of rising demand for scarce skills must be reflected in the rewards package for the staff of the institutions. the results of a comprehensive independent study published last april commissioned originally by the commission showed that the european civil service pay scale is higher than that of national civil servants, similar to that of comparable personnel in other international organisations, significantly lower than that of similarly qualified expatriate employees of multinationals and lower than that of diplomats. that reinforced our view that the pay scale is appropriate, reasonable and relevant to the role of the commission and to the demands upon its staff and that in some respects improvement is necessary and justified. support for childcare for children under the age of six, for instance, is essential for equal opportunities and for the commission to be able to attract staff, particularly women, from member states with advanced systems. similarly, payment of position premiums for functions that carry particularly heavy responsibility and/or workload is gradually becoming the norm in labour markets throughout the european union. for the institution to retain its competitiveness as an international employer, it should be introduced in a targeted way in the commission. with these considerations in mind we have reviewed the structure of pay and rewards in order to identify and, where necessary, reform the outdated elements. we are consequently proposing to cut or to end allowances which have no continuing justification and to keep and, in some respects, improve those which correspond to objective conditions such as expatriate working life, bringing up children and, typically, having to work in more than one foreign language. our pensions proposals, meanwhile, fulfil our undertaking to guarantee the long-term actuarial balance of the system and, naturally, existing pension rights will be honoured. in compiling and adopting all of these proposals for consultation, we have naturally given close attention to budgetary implications. we have made very clear to this house and to the council that all changes arising from reform and from pay and pension proposals will keep within the limits set by the relevant part of the financial perspective established by the berlin council in 1999. we will fulfil that commitment. the ending of the 5.8% so-called temporary levy, in place under various names since the 1970s, will provide a substantial part of the resources for meeting obligations. the savings on allowances that are no longer justified will make other investments possible. we propose that the pay and pension system continues to be based on the fixed relationship with pay movements in the civil administrations of member states. the total employment costs of the administration of the european institutions is, as a proportion of the budget, 1.9% of that budget. that compares favourably with the average bill for member states calculated on a like-for-like basis of 13.1% of budget. throughout the period of the financial perspective to 2006 the costs of the administration as a proportion of gnp will be lower than they were in 1985. the documents adopted by the commission today are, as the president of the commission emphasised, proposals for consultation. in keeping with the method which we have used on all reform-related proposals each of the documents will be the subject of serious and detailed negotiations with staff representatives and wider consultations with staff over the coming four and a half months. constructive suggestions for improvement will be welcome and, as the record plainly shows, we heed them and we are ready to include them before decisions are finalised by the college. when they are finalised the decisions relating to changes that do not require alteration of the staff regulations will be implemented. the other decisions, such as those relating to career structure, pay and pensions, will be submitted as formal proposals for legislation to the council and to this house. some, like those on appraisals and promotions, will require consideration by the interinstitutional staff regulations committee. clearly, this parliament, as a legislature, as a budgetary authority and as an employer, will rightly have close interest in all of these developments. i would draw attention to the importance of the changes that we are proposing in respect of the career structure. this affects parliament in respect of all the areas i have just mentioned. one important aspect and, indeed, a prior condition to making progress on the career structure is that we must reach agreement on a multiannual framework governing movements in unit wage costs allowing the institutions, parliament, the commission and the council to set a robust and structured framework for developing the careers of their staff. i am sure that parliament will give earnest and informed attention to this and, indeed, all other elements of the reform strategy. at my hearing in parliament in 1999 i expressed the hope that we would be partners for progress. that hope has been fully realised. i hope our partnership will continue. i commend the proposals which were adopted unanimously by the commission for consultation today. (applause)
madam president, i would particularly like to welcome mr kinnock’s statement and say how pleased i am to see that mr prodi is here, because these reforms will only be successful if they are led from the top. therefore it is very important that he be here. i drew up on behalf of parliament a report, which was approved almost unanimously last year, in which parliament warned the commission that the reforms must be implemented as quickly as possible to avoid staff demoralisation and public disenchantment. i would like mr kinnock to explain how he is going to move these forward as quickly as possible, because that warning is as valid now as it was when parliament approved the report a few months ago. my second question is to ask mr kinnock whether he shares my great concern about the lack of interest being shown in his reforms by the council. i have had a look at the agendas for ecofin and general affairs meetings over the last year, and there has been only one item about personnel, which was about freelance interpreters in march 2000. would he share with me the view that, if the council took more interest in his reforms, it would help their speedy and thorough implementation to achieve the end that we all want, which is the most professional and effective european civil service.
mr president, i informed the services in advance of my wish to raise a point of order while madame fontaine was in the chair. it seemed to me that a number who simply raised their hands during the course of the first part of this sitting were given preferential status. i regret that. can i ask you to inform me when the president will next be in the chair as i wish to put a point of order to her. and can i have your assurance that i will be able to do so on that occasion?
those of us from the uk know only too well what a devastating effect bse can have on the agricultural community. i hope others can learn from our experiences and maybe our mistakes as well. i think the most important lesson is that there is a need to take stringent measures from the outset, firstly, to prevent further outbreaks and, secondly, to ensure that consumer confidence increases. unless safety measures are dramatically increased we cannot succeed in restoring consumer confidence, which is critical in the long term to european beef markets. in the uk now our markets and beef consumption have returned to 1995 levels. however, to restore confidence, we really need to be clearly targeting our aid and we must encourage member states to vigorously take up this aid, which to my understanding has not always been the case. i would just like to address the issue that various people such as mr mulder and mrs haug have raised, namely whether the aid should be the traditional 70/30 split between the eu and the member states or whether we should go for a 50/50 split. now, whilst i sympathise with the reasons behind what has been outlined by mr mulder and mrs haug, and i appreciate their serious concern about the level of funding being sufficient for the unidentified needs for the remainder of the year, it would be extremely difficult for this parliament to go down this route because, firstly, the financial regulations state that 70/30 is the agreed split and anything new would actually require a change in the financial regulations and, secondly, speaking as a uk member, i want to see parity, with other member states being dealt with in exactly the same way as the uk. so, if we want to ensure fair play, it is important that we have the same split. thirdly, if parliament votes for this new approach the council will have to have a second reading and this will only serve to prolong the process until a decision is reached, and this goes against our experience in the uk, which is that you must deal with things quickly and speedily to restore consumer confidence, which is vital to beef markets in europe. for these reasons i am against the rapporteur’s recommendation. i do not want to apportion blame about the crisis but i have similar concerns to those outlined by other members about the approach and length of time it has taken the commission to attempt to tackle bse with rigour and determination. the commission should have banned spinal cord from food and human consumption and animal feed once the disease was apparent in the uk. the commission should be undertaking a full and immediate audit of control procedures to prevent contaminated cattle from crossing borders. in conclusion i would like to say that i support the request for the sab and i think it is important we get member states to take up this aid.
mr president, i rise to support this budget that should be spent to help with the bse crisis. we have to accept that we will have to incinerate a great many of the older cattle in order to restore consumer confidence. it has the advantage of taking away some of the production when those cattle are incinerated, so i support the majority of this budget going towards the incineration of older cattle. as we move forward to reforming the cap – and we all accept that it has to be reformed – we must not do this with a gun to our head. we must do this in a calm way. it is no good just blaming the large farmer versus the small farmer. it is not as simple as that. it is about intensive production and this does not always take place on the large farms. we cannot in europe look only at the way we produce our food under the cap. we must also look at food imports from outside the european union. it is madness for us to put our house in order and then to see food coming into the european union that does not meet the same safety standards as ours. we have to be very concerned about this but we do not want to take too negative a view as regards consumption. consumption can return, and it has returned in the uk. it has been a painful process, but now is not the time to make a judgment on exactly what in six months’ time the consumption will be in europe. if the safety measures are put in place, if confidence can return, then the consumption can rise again quite dramatically. that will be the time to reform the cap and make sure we get it right.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. for weeks now, agricultural policy has been the focus of public debate. this is a challenge and an opportunity for agricultural policy, because it is becoming clear that we must now have a debate on what we actually expect from agricultural policy. is it just about quantity, or how much is it about quality? how much more urgent are the objectives we are setting for the agricultural sector in terms of conservation of the countryside, cultural heritage, animal welfare and environmental protection? we have also heard many speakers in the debate making it clear that the proposals of the past, which were supported by the commission and the european parliament, had already very much incorporated these objectives, but unfortunately were rejected by the council. i hope the council now understands that this debate must not be shunned any longer, but must be conducted. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but i would like to say that the commission has taken a decision on the matter. failure to make decisions does not improve the situation; it actually makes it worse. the commission had already taken up its responsibility to make proposals in november/december when the second bse crisis broke out. we are now backing up financially the decisions already taken in december. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very grateful that this supplementary budget has been approved by parliament. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to present its opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. that's an increase of more than 50% over last year. i stress this to make it clear that the european union is not leaving farmers alone in the current crisis, but that we are spending a large part of our budget on this. i think that is something that needs to be emphasized here. i also agree with all those who say that the fact that we are spending six billion euros to subsidize production and now adding another billion to deal with production in the sense that we are partially destroying it, clearly indicates that there is a need for action in the sense of reorientation. i would like to say briefly again what this supplementary budget is now being used for: part of it, i.e. 33 million, for additional bse tests, then a large part for intervention purchases and the largest part for buying up cattle for slaughter. that too must be said clearly. but the money goes to the farmers to partially compensate for the loss of income. i would also remind you that we have very different systems in the beef sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and what about the ethical side of it? it is a sad chapter, of course, when we now allocate 700 million euros to the destruction of cattle. it is a sad chapter for agricultural policy and a sad chapter for the taxpayer. but it must also be said that there is in fact no alternative on the table. it is not a matter of promoting a slaughter programme, but of taking necessary measures, because there are far fewer slaughters than there are normally. let me say a few words about whether food aid is an alternative. food aid in the form of beef is conditional on the existence of closed cooling circuits in the recipient countries. you can't just load beef onto a ship and take it somewhere in a disaster area, and then it's going to be spoiled meat. there's nothing you can do about it. you have to think about all that. the experience of the european union in the fact that the regional market was then partly destroyed must be a warning to us not to repeat the same mistakes. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are already discussing a further step, also within the framework of the council of agriculture ministers. this week we shall be discussing this second package, which includes measures going beyond the current response to the throttling. of course, there must and can be a debate on whether more action is needed. but of course, you have to agree on something. i must also say that i am surprised at what i sometimes read in the newspapers about this package proposed by mr fischler. the commission has already made a number of proposals. when i read about a huge slaughter programme that mr fischler is going to introduce, i would point out once again that this is an offer from the european union to buy up meat that is currently unavailable. we are only doing this with co-financing, part of it must also be financed by the member states. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. the question now is what further measures can be taken to deal with the crisis. it is good to have many proposals on the table. i also think it is right to think about this further, for example, with regard to an early marketing premium, because in fact part of the problem is already solved when an animal comes to the market at half its weight instead of being fattened further. i also think it is important to think about decoupling the premium from the constraints of production, so as to incorporate the other objectives of agriculture more fully into the premium system. but let us realize that what we are funding today was necessary in the first place. when we talk about the second package, we also talk about crisis management. but of course, by then the steps should have been taken and we should then have started the third phase with the mid-term review, to include the other objectives of agriculture more closely in our premium system. i should like to say a few words about foot-and-mouth disease, because this has rightly been raised by some of my colleagues. the disaster in the united kingdom is already very big. the next few days will determine whether the disease has reached the continent, based on the incubation period. we must be prepared for that. we as householders must also be prepared for the possibility of serious problems. we must also be prepared for the fact that we may not have reached the bottom of the agricultural crisis. i hope not. but we may have to consider that possibility. it is all the more important to manage the crisis with a clear mind now, but at the same time to follow a path that points to the objectives, i.e. the combination of the objectives of agricultural policy with the objectives of consumer protection and the objectives of animal welfare and environmental protection.
commission. – i am glad of this opportunity to update you on the most recent developments in relation to the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in the united kingdom. you will be aware that the first outbreak was confirmed on 20 february in the evening. the commission adopted a safeguard decision the following day, that is on 21 february, at a commission meeting. this measure imposed a ban on the export from the uk of certain live animals, that is cattle, sheep and goats, and restrictions on the export of meat, meat products, milk, milk products and certain animal products. it also provided for a review of the decision of the standing veterinary committee on 27 february. this very prompt action has been criticised in some quarters as a panic reaction. nothing could be further from the truth. it is an essential and very necessary reaction to a highly infectious disease with potentially huge economic and trade consequences for the entire european union, some of which you have heard about from mrs schreyer just a moment ago. i am encouraged that the decision was strongly supported by the agriculture council last monday. it is also supported by the farming community throughout the european union including in the uk, as farmers are conscious of the grave threat to their livelihood from this particular disease. unfortunately, the number of outbreaks has continued to increase and currently amounts to 22. there are a number of worrying aspects to this outbreak which i should enumerate for you. first of all, it has been detected in several different counties in britain with a widespread geographical distribution. secondly, it has been found not only in farms but in abattoirs, dealers’ premises and collection points. furthermore, there were exports of potentially infected susceptible animals, in particular sheep, to other member states before confirmation of the outbreak took place. i would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the uk for its very firm action to bring the outbreak under control. the uk imposed a complete restriction on the movement of livestock in britain on 23 february in order to reduce the further spread of the disease. this ban has been prolonged for another fortnight. given the incubation period of this disease the impact of this measure is not yet fully apparent. the commission is obviously keeping the situation under constant review and we are in continual contact with the veterinary authorities in the uk and in other member states. the situation was reviewed at a meeting of the standing veterinary committee yesterday. in the light of the update on the current situation from the uk representative and the views of the member states’ veterinary experts, the commission services proposed the following. firstly, the extension of the current ban until 9 march. that decision was taken at a commission meeting this morning. secondly, member states shall take any precautionary measures including the isolation of susceptible animals and preventive killing of such animals exported from the uk between 1 and 21 february. the standing veterinary committee gave a favourable opinion to this proposal and it will now be approved by the commission with a view to entry into force before the expiry of the current decision at midnight on 1 march. the new decision will expire at midnight on 9 march 2001 and will be reviewed at the standing veterinary committee scheduled to take place on 6 and 7 march. our current approach is focused on stamping out the disease. we would only turn to vaccination as a last resort, since it would call into question the disease status of the european union and involve very significant future costs for the farming community and for exporters. clearly we have to be very concerned with the present situation. the stakes are very high and the costs of failing to bring the outbreak under control are very high. in addition, the timing of the outbreak, as the bse crisis continues to do its damage, could not be worse. i will caution, however, against drawing any immediate conclusions. for example, the outbreak is already being attributed to poor controls on imports and the intensive nature of agricultural production in the european union. obviously, we will be considering all these issues in the coming weeks and months in our investigations into the origins of this disease. however, we should not overlook the fact that the community has been hugely successful in achieving its current status on foot-and-mouth disease, at least up to a couple of weeks ago. vaccination ended in 1991, which has since saved european farmers over eur 1 billion. it has also allowed member states to export to countries which insist on imports only from countries which are recognised to be foot-and-mouth disease free and which do not follow the vaccination policy. since then, there have been no cases other than in italy in 1993 and a number of incursions of the disease in greece next to the turkish border. prior to the implementation of the non-vaccination policy in 1991 hundreds of outbreaks were recorded each year. my firm intention is to maintain that success. i hope that i can count on your support for the present zero- tolerance approach towards this disease. i would now like to hear your views on the current situation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his measured statement this afternoon. members may not know but the farm at heddon-on-the-wall in the north-east of england which appears to be the centre of this outbreak is in my constituency and therefore i know at first hand the great devastation it is causing to the farming community and the disruption that it is causing to the meat processing industry, to say nothing of the curtailment of access to countryside pursuits. i would like to express to the farming community in the united kingdom our great sympathy and concern with this situation. i would also like to say to colleagues from the mainland continent of europe that we sincerely hope that we have not exported the disease to mainland europe. i very much welcome what the commissioner had to say about the actions that had been taken by the british government. we all understand that slaughter and stoppage of animal movement is one of the best means of bringing the outbreak under control. he also mentioned vaccination as a further possibility. can he say anything about the time scale for vaccination?
thank you, commissioner, for coming today. it was my request in the agriculture committee that we had a debate on this and i much appreciate your coming. i also echo mr adam’s feelings. i would like to express my heartfelt sympathies to those in britain affected by it and my sorrow that we may have exported this disease. on that note, i would like to say how worried we are. however, it is vitally important that we use everything within our power to stop a future occurrence of this. i want to know whether or not you will be looking – and you did indicate this in your speech – at strengthening phytosanitary measures so that we can have healthy, safe food within the united kingdom and within europe. could the commissioner answer two quick questions. has the british government applied for full funding from the eu, using agrimonetary systems and other systems, and what is the position of sheep in germany? have we finally sorted the problem of infected sheep?
obviously the farmers in the uk and in my constituency where we have a suspected case are absolutely devastated by this in addition to bse. the commissioner said that no funding from the eu had been requested for this at the moment. would there be eu funding specifically available to help with foot-and-mouth? will he also help the british government to determine where the foot-and-mouth originally came from, because he said that we do not import from countries that do not have a clean record. i thought it was perhaps just regions of particular countries. could he be a little more specific on that? would he agree with me that the closure of the smaller abattoirs in the uk has perhaps led to the spread of the disease?
commission. – mr president, with regard to mrs auroi’s question on fraud in the member states. in the event that there is any evidence of fraud in member states then there is an obligation to investigate this fully. the member state in question will be required to do so, and the commission will have a direct interest in ensuring that was done. on the question of small abattoirs: i can only repeat what i said earlier that the last case of foot-and-mouth disease in the uk was in the 1960s. the fact that we have had bigger abattoirs in the meantime over the last 20-year period tends to indicate that there is not necessarily a correlation between big or small abattoirs and the outbreak of foot-and-mouth. however, all issues are kept under review and this situation this will obviously be one of the issues that will be taken into account. we must be careful not to look for magic solutions and make knee-jerk reactions as to causes. that is one aspect that will be weighed in the balance in coming to a conclusion on this issue. there are 30 million doses of vaccine in the european union. on the question of whether foot-and-mouth disease can infect humans, the position here appears to be that if there is any infection, it is an extremely mild form causing very mild symptoms and very few cases. in other words, it is not understood to be a public health problem. mr cunha then asked me about countries where exports had taken place. i am sure that information is available in my dg. i do not have the information at my finger tips, but i understand that in all probability the list will include germany, france, the netherlands and belgium. the uk has kept my dg fully up-to-date on all developments. i personally receive faxes and i have had a number of conversations with the relevant minister, mr nick brown, on these issues. i am absolutely satisfied that the uk authorities are keeping the commission fully informed as events evolve.
commissioner, will you take it from all of us that we believe you have acted proportionately and not out of panic. the only panic here would be if this were being represented as a major threat to human health, rather than animal health which it is. in recognising the prompt action of the uk on 20 and 21 february, could you confirm that the uk has in fact now asked to draw down the remaining tranche of agrimonetary compensation, as the british minister announced last night. could you be specific about the additional support which will be needed if an entire farming community is to be able to survive the loss of its livelihood which, for many of those we represent, is now the case. finally, have you had any reports from the fvo in dublin yet concerning the causes of the outbreak at heddon-on-the-wall. given that the risk by land and air of infection is now so great, will you at least assure us that you will not rule out preventive vaccination, at least to give additional assistance in the attempt to stop the disease spreading, even if the animals have to be destroyed later?
- this is a delicate question for you, commissioner.
commission. – mr whitehead, i greatly welcome what you said as a preliminary to your question, that you believe that the commission has acted in a proportionate manner. i fully agree with your assessment that the only panic that can come from this situation is by people irresponsibly drawing attention to what does not exist, which is a threat to human health. i am very happy that you raised that question and gave me an opportunity to emphasise that point yet again. as regards the application for compensation, as you are probably aware this is an issue that falls within the competence of my colleague, mr fischler, but i understand that the uk authorities intend to make an application and it may very well be in the pipeline. i am aware that this constitutes an enormous impact on farming incomes, and this is something that has been fully taken into account in all deliberations. with regard to the food and veterinary office, no fvo report is available yet, but i should say that no options will be ruled out with regard to vaccinations. as i said earlier, however, this would only be regarded as a last resort. the question from mr maat concerns different levels of performance in different member states. i strongly believe that member states fully understand the seriousness of the situation. member states are taking the appropriate action, given the level of exposure that they believe exists in their own member state. i am satisfied, for instance, that one member state alone has destroyed 47 000 sheep without any positive finding in any one of them. other member states have also destroyed large numbers of sheep, and markets and so on in a number of member states have also been closed. movements have been restricted. the member states, particularly those at risk of having imported sheep from the uk, are taking the appropriate action. with regard to that, traceability has worked very well but there are limitations. we cannot ensure individual identification of sheep and pigs in all instances. mr cushnahan then asked me about whether there should be criminal prosecution in the event of fraud. that is an issue that member states are responsible for themselves. it is not the duty of the commission to require member states to initiate such criminal prosecutions. but in the event of any persistent failure of a member state to implement the laws of the european union, there is scope for the commission to initiate infringement proceedings. that does not arise in this instance, but i am satisfied that in the event that there is evidence of criminal activity – and i am sure you are referring to the uk when you asked me this question mr cushnahan – that the uk authorities will be well aware of the fact that prosecutions of this type are appropriate in the circumstances. with regard to the last part of your question as to whether i believe it is appropriate for the political party you identify to have restricted its árd fheis, firstly let me say that i do not follow the affairs of all small parties in the european union. another concern that might well have motivated him is: would anybody have turned up out of lack of interest? (laughter)
commissioner byrne, i should like to go back to the question of imported meat from outside the european union. you say that it has to be licensed. i think there are problems with this licensing. when cases break out in these countries there is a time lag. all this needs to be tightened up. you need to be absolutely certain that meat from countries that have foot-and-mouth disease infection cannot enter the european union. i should like to join with other colleagues and say how terrible it has been for the farming community in britain. the farmers feel that the gods have deserted them entirely after bse, and now foot-and-mouth. can i also ask as regards compensation whether it is possible for the commission to consider compensation, not only for those farmers that are directly hit by foot-and-mouth disease, but those that are also closed down by not being able to move their livestock?
we can all agree on one thing: farmers everywhere in the european union certainly did not need this disease to come upon them at this moment in time, and certainly the farmers in the united kingdom did not need it at all. but it is at a time like this that you realise how mobile animals are. you need only look at the map and see the distances they travel. mrs doyle referred to the scare in my home county in my constituency in northern ireland. we had hoped that we would get away with it unscathed but it shows just how dangerous and highly contagious this disease is, through the way animals move. at this time those animals have all been tested. i have been in touch with my local veterinary department. there is cooperation with the government of the republic of ireland and indeed a perimeter has been set which happens to straddle the border between the two areas. i should like to ask the commissioner one question. he referred to intensive farming. would he not agree with me that the hype being put forward in the media about intensive farming/factory farming has nothing to do with all this? in fact in 1967 when the last outbreak occurred, the type of farming we have now did not exist. would he not agree with me that this is the case?
commission. – firstly in response to mr parish and his concerns in relation to imports from third countries. i should like to emphasise again the very strict controls that exist on imports and the fact that the evidence of no incidence of foot-and-mouth – or very low incidence in one or two countries – is testimony to that fact. with regard to compensation, the position here is that we can only compensate within the regulations, which does not include loss of production. on travel, i confirm that this particular disease can be wind-borne. in response to mr nicholson i would repeat what i said earlier in relation to this issue about intensive and extensive farming. i do not believe that particular issue is a significantly relevant issue to this particular outbreak of the disease. i know that there is some speculation in the media in relation to this and obviously in all our deliberations about how this disease came about and how it has spread, this will be one of the issues that will be taken into account.
- i am sure that the whole house wishes you and commissioner fischler good luck in facing all these responsibilities in the context of this terrible disease that we are experiencing at the moment. the debate is closed.
- the following three reports are requested for joint debate: - a5-0061/2001 by mr brunetta, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on access to and interconnection of electronic communications networks and associated facilities (com (2000) 384 - c5-0433/2000 - 2000/0186 (cod)) - a5-0053/2001 by mr paasilinna, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services (com (2000) 393 - c5-0428/2000 - 2000/0184 (cod)); - a5-0062/2001 by mrs niebler, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the authorisation of electronic communications networks and services (com (2000) 386 - c5-0440/2000 - 2000/0188 (cod)).
i would also like to congratulate all three rapporteurs for simplifying reports on a very complicated area. for me, the emergence of a fully integrated and liberalised telecommunications market by the end of 2001 is the vital precondition for the transition to a digital knowledge-based economy, which i hope will bring considerable growth to the eu. it is essential to note that the consequences of this package will certainly not be restricted to one recipient in particular. on the contrary, the new legal framework will serve to enhance competition in this sector. this house’s objective is to encourage incumbents to continue to be major players, yet there is a danger that their over-dominance will discriminate against new entrants, when one of our key priorities is to create a climate in which new entrants are allowed to flourish. we are getting the balance right on this issue, and this i hope will actually counter concerns over the mounting debt in this sector at present. for my group the intention of this raft of legislation is to encourage market development and to reduce the burden of legislation. however, rules with a significant effect should not be based on a short-term vision. i am therefore pleased that in the access directive the committee approved the inclusion of mobile networks in the definition, and i am equally pleased that the retail prices of international roaming, which are exorbitant at present, will be transparent and cost-based in future. in a sector which is subject to such swift technological change, it is important to ensure that the regime is able to deal with unforeseen issues that might arise in the future. the access directive will have the greatest impact on the european consumer as it will lead to lower prices, greater choice and better services. at the same time, the new situation will create opportunities for businesses across europe and especially small businesses.
this has been a difficult and complex task and the three rapporteurs have certainly done a very good job in the circumstances. we have had difficulty in reconciling the texts. we have not made the commission’s task easier. between us, we have overcomplicated these texts and it is going to have a job to sort these out before the second reading. it is a lesson for us in the future that, as politicians and parliamentarians, we should focus on simplification and minimum regulation. i was interested that my colleague, mrs gill – unfortunately she is no longer here – made the point of support for market development to minimise regulation. we have not done that with the amendments that we have made. the problem with the work that we have done so far is that we have got bogged down in today’s thinking. we are actually finding excuses for regulating. we have spent an enormous amount of time on significant market power and deciding how to regulate it, instead of actually thinking about the way forward. i am pleased a number of colleagues, including mr glante, made that point as well. that is something that we need to reflect on between now and the second reading. i am particularly concerned about the fact that we are not thinking about the way the market is going to reconstruct. we should look at the change in sentiment in the market that has taken place over the time that we have been reviewing these texts and think about the mobile market which is still enormously dynamic, has shown terrific rates of growth, is introducing new products all the time, and is within sight of getting mobile communications to two-thirds of the european population. we are spending far too much time here thinking about transitory issues of roaming. i know colleagues feel very strongly about it but the market will actually cure those issues. i remain entirely unconvinced that the sort of interventionist approach we have taken here is right. in conclusion, i remind colleagues that there is one more very important report to come, my report on universal service, and many of the things you have talked about and, indeed, some of the provisions on mobile are actually more appropriate for my report and not for mr brunetta’s. i am sure the commission will remind us of that but i shall resist those sort of temptations when i come back to you in two months time.
the rapporteurs have done excellent work here. mr paasilinna is an old hand but i would like to welcome mr brunetta and mrs niebler to the secret world, the secret language, of telecommunication junkies. what are we actually about here? what we are about is creating new rules to look at who can play and on what terms. we are looking for a genuine pan-european single market. we are looking at where regulation has succeeded and, if i could say to mr harbour, not only where regulation has failed but why it has failed, and that is very important. mr paasilinna, in his written contribution, posed the question who will regulate the regulator and i think that the role of the commission is absolutely crucial in this. it is not only about who will regulate the regulator but why we need to regulate the regulator. mr clegg spent an enormous amount of time just last year on the local loop unbundling rules and i am posing a separate question to you, commissioner, to ask if you will give an indication of where already we are seeing resistance at member state level to implementing local loop unbundling. there are a couple of positive things that i want to draw your attention to, because we also need to make sure that access in its widest sense really is available. i tabled amendments in the industry committee on the rights of disabled consumers, particularly because of inadequacies in the rtte directive which i know the commission are aware of, and i was pleased that the committee and, i hope, parliament are going to continue to support this. going back to my original point, what this is really about is making sure that the european union’s telecommunications industry has a climate in which it can thrive and survive and remain competitive. these are important steps in that direction.
three points: first of all on this important issue of smp. we have made a stab at trying to enhance and improve the text but i am concerned, as was mr harbour, that we may actually have complicated matters, so whilst i feel that we have added a menu of additional concepts, a mélange, a pot-pourri of new tools to deploy under the title of smp, i wonder whether we should perhaps be a little more bold in the second reading and perhaps think of drawing back where we consider, on reflection, those new concepts might actually be adding to confusion rather than diminishing confusion. second point: nras. this is really a point i would like to address to the council, not that there is much point in doing it here this evening, but the member states cannot have it both ways. they cannot have their cake and eat it. they cannot wish to see a vibrant pan-european telecoms market established and yet not have any meaningful criteria attached to the way in which nras operate. that is an unsustainable position and, politically, we should push the member states harder and harder on this. there need to be clear criteria of independence and autonomy and proper resourcing which we need to really push upon the member states, and not be swayed by their slightly misleading claims that it is all to do with subsidiarity and therefore none of our business. finally, on the all-important article 6 of the paasilinna report and the vexed amendment no 33, which mrs niebler spoke about earlier, we should perhaps have another look at it in second reading. i am not sure if you have the balance right. i am clear at this stage – and my group will vote against it – that those provisions should not cover ‘must carry’ provisions and we will be voting against that section of that amendment tomorrow. finally, i wonder whether as legislators we really do make good telecoms junkies, to quote mel read. i just leave that as a question mark.
i would like to support, in particular, amendments nos 13 and 16, 19 and 20. i tabled similar amendments in the culture committee. these were amendments to help to ensure that disabled users benefit equally from electronic communications. service providers must recognise their role in facilitating access to terminal equipment for disabled users and the framework directive must include, in my opinion, access to terminal equipment and software. article 7(4)(e) says that they are keen to address the needs of specific social groups, in particular disabled people. that is meaningless without these amendments. we do not want to regulate all equipment sold on the high street but the interfaces should be regulated for vision-impaired people, for instance. the menu on television or mobile phones should have an audio alternative. it is a small change. it is not much to ask but it would affect the lives of disabled people and mean that they could be included in the electronics communications revolution instead of being excluded.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mr gemelli on having had his report adopted unanimously by the committee on development and cooperation. it deserves the same accolade from the house. it is fair to say there was considerable input from all the political parties in this house, as mr gemelli accepted a number of amendments during the committee stage. it lays down the foundation for development policy for the coming decade. some of the statistics it throws up are frightening in their nature, for instance the number of people under the age of 15 in developing countries; the utter poverty in which most of them live; the scourge of diseases such as aids, malaria and tb; the huge and widening gap between developed and developing nations; the predictions, which i believe will never be reached in the timescales laid down. lastly, there is the enormity of the task we face as a european union to help eradicate these problems. it is encouraging that the commission, of its own initiative, has realised we cannot continue as we have in the past and that new structures and formats have to be found to close the gap between commitments and payments and that better use must be made of developing funds. trade is the key. i applaud much of its thinking. we in parliament must support its efforts. decentralisation is a must to make better use of our delegation offices and cut red tape and wasted time. as the rapporteur for regional cooperation and integration last year, i am pleased to see progress being pursued in this direction with ecowas in west africa leading the way. only by strengthening internal regional trade will many nations be able to face globalisation and wto rules. ‘everything but arms’ is a major step forward. but to make best use of development aid there must be closer cooperation between nation states, financial institutions and the commission. the commission should be acting as overall coordinator to cut out duplication and not be involved in the day-to-day development issues which should be contracted out to organisations that specialise in these matters. while budget support to national governments may spend more money quicker, it is much more difficult to police and monitoring will have to be of a high calibre. small-scale help for entrepreneurs must not be abandoned. it is here that the members of the committee on development should be more active in keeping the commission alert to its responsibilities. the commission has laid down its six priority principles, all of which we can strongly support. the priority within the six is also important. we should never forget that without peace, stability, good governance and the rule of law none of the other five priorities can be acted upon.
can i begin by being self-critical of this parliament. we support the commission in drawing up a clearer and concise set of development objectives and then produce a resolution that numbers 68 separate paragraphs in response. nevertheless, there is much in this report on which the commission should reflect. our objective should not be poverty reduction but poverty eradication. integration in the world economy cannot be an end in itself in comparison with bringing the poor themselves to market. poor people frequently depend on fragile ecosystems and therefore conservation and sustainability should be prime objectives of our policy. eu development policy should be guided by all un international development targets and not just poverty. the eu has a key responsibility, for example, in promoting access to education for all, especially girls. however, while supporting this resolution, let us recall previous statements in the maastricht treaty, in horizon 2000 and then in agenda 2000, all of which included fine statements of goodwill on development policy. the test is implementation. let us also recall that the commissioner’s response in this parliament last year that a communication on coherence had to wait until the overall development policy statement had been agreed. the protectionist backlash against the ‘everything but arms’ proposal demonstrates only too clearly the need to raise the profile of development objectives in our trade, agricultural and other policies. finally, we will only manage to focus on poverty if we reallocate properly our use of resources. the commissioner and his services have been working closely with me and parliamentary colleagues in recent weeks to ensure agreement on how to deliver this through the budget. i thank him for that. we are very close to an understanding which will ensure that parliament and commission move forward together. however, a failure will seriously undermine the principles in this development policy communication and i appeal to him from the floor of the house to continue the dialogue before we reach a set of difficult votes in forthcoming weeks. i ask him to work with us so that we can turn our mutual desires into a common commitment.
the eu has been a willing donor but has, in the past, and i emphasise in the past, failed to deliver effective help when it is required and where it is most needed. such failure has left many countries poorer today. fortunately, and i disagree with the last speaker, the gemelli report strengthens the commission proposals. commissioner nielson and his team have done a great job and mr gemelli’s report – an excellent report – reinforces those new proposals. the acid test will be whether the next ten or twenty years of eu aid will reduce poverty substantially – i disagree with the last speaker, we will never eradicate poverty. the aim is to reduce substantially the poverty and misery experienced by so many. the gemelli report attempts to take a fresh approach, a bold approach. out with theory, the models which did not produce results. in with practical ideas to promote real development: development of human resources, so that indigenous people acquire technical skills; development of vocational skills for rural production, so that people can grow, harvest, process, package and sell their goods for added value with which they can then buy their education, health and homes; building capacity through transfer of technology to smes, promoting use of sustainable energy, application of information technology, enhancing awareness of social education, health and human rights. these are the ideas in the gemelli report which support commissioner nielson’s report and good work. therefore, this important report should be fully approved by this house because it should improve the efficacy of eu aid. it will be a blueprint for other donors and i hope that all members from all sides will support this report and the commission as well.
- thank you, mr wuermeling. - thank you.
- the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the air strikes in iraq.
mr president, i visited kuwait recently where i met a man whose childhood friend has been killed during the assault by iraq upon kuwait. he went out into the street and saw his friend’s body. when he put his hands down he saw that he was dead. he found that he was touching almost a piece of jelly. the iraqi soldiers had broken every single bone in that man’s body. when we talk about the iraqi people let us not forget the 750 or so kuwaiti prisoners of war still inside iraqi prisons. we do not know what has happened to them. we have to keep looking. i visited iran. i have talked to the families of prisoners who are still in iraq from the iran/iraq war of 1981-1988. a million people were killed because of saddam’s assault and predatory efforts inside iran. maybe 25 to 30,000 prisoners from iran are still inside iraqi prisons. let us not forget those people either. i have been to kurdistan. i have seen the results of the chemical weapons. do not let us forget the half million kurdistani people whose lives have been taken away from them by baghdad since they were invaded in the north with chemical weapons in august 1988 shortly after saddam was driven out of iran. i have been to the marshlands of iraq many times, the antique heritage of the world, the marshlands of mesopotamia. i have seen year after year the steady drainage, the reduction of the water, and the fact now that over half a million marsh dwellers, reaching right back beyond the beginnings of civilisation of our world, have now had their livelihood, their lives destroyed, their place removed from under their feet by the iraqi marsh drainage. and why? so that saddam can get his tanks closer to iran and closer to kuwait so that he can invade more easily next time. the no-fly zones have been effective in protecting the lives of at least some of those people but we should do more; we must do more. it is within our power to restore the marshes of iraq. this man is a monster. when we talk about the no-fly zone, when we talk about the collateral damage, do not let us forget that point. in 1989, he earned usd 15 billion from oil and he spent 13 billion on arms. in 1999 he earned usd 16 billion and at least, legally, he could not spend any on arms. i recommend that we look at taking the food distribution of the “oil for food programme” out of his hands, that we look at tearing down those dams that have wrecked the marshes and that we work to set up a criminal court where he can be tried at least in abstentia. when we talk of a policy on iraq, commissioner patten spoke about the recklessness of the iraq regime. it is not recklessness it is ruthlessness. this man is indeed a modern hitler. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, actions such as we are debating today must be underpinned by democratic legitimacy. i am sure that we all agree. the problem is how to do it. at the moment the cfsp is a mixture of national attitudes and european attitudes and the particular subject we are debating today of course only involves one single member state of the european union. so how do we provide the democratic legitimacy when we are all involved? two or three weeks ago there was a conference in stockholm of the chairmen of the defence committees of the fifteen national parliaments and the european parliament to debate exactly this question – how to exercise democratic control over european policies and foreign affairs and defence. although no conclusion could be reached in a single day, i can tell you that they have set up a working party between the chairmen and intend to meet again and to come up with a conclusion. this parliament has proposed various mechanisms for introducing this legitimacy. we have proposed setting up an interparliamentary body between members of the nato assembly and our foreign affairs committee. another proposal has been a joint interparliamentary body between national parliaments and members of this parliament. i very much welcomed the statement just now from the president-in-office saying that this parliament must play a role. but what i would greatly appreciate from the presidency is a statement of how precisely they plan to do this, because in the various treaties we have had recently and the european councils, there has been no suggestion of how this might be achieved.
mr president, can i first of all say that i am rather surprised that this debate is entitled air attacks against iraq. it should more properly be entitled “how can saddam hussein be controlled more effectively?” what a tragedy for the people of iraq to have a ruler such as saddam hussein, a brutal dictator who has exploited the wealth of the country for his own ends and ambitions and oppressed his own people. saddam is not just a threat to his own people but to a wider area, including our friends and allies in the middle east, and potentially our own citizens. estimates vary about the success of iraqi efforts to develop weapons of mass destruction and delivery systems but few analysts doubt saddam’s determination to acquire such a capability and many expect him to achieve some success within the next four years. there is then a real and current threat over which some degree of international control is exercised, really by two means: the economic sanctions and the maintenance by britain and america on behalf of the international community of the no-fly zone covering about a third of the territory of iraq. the sanctions are controversial in that saddam has been able to persuade some significant elements of international opinion that it is sanctions that are the cause of the distress of the iraqi people rather than his own actions. sanctions will be suspended when saddam complies with certain conditions, primarily in relation to the monitoring of his weapons of mass destruction capacity. nevertheless, it is right that the sanctions regime should be reviewed and that they should be focused more precisely. the main purpose of the no-fly zone is twofold: to prevent saddam using his helicopter gunships and other aircraft against the kurds in the north and the shia marsh arabs in the south, and to carry out reconnaissance, bearing in mind that there are no un inspection teams operating in iraq at the moment. ground targets are only engaged if there is a threat to coalition aircraft. there is no bombing campaign against iraq. there is an element in this house which seeks to distort all these facts. we heard this during the hearing on iraq the other day in the foreign affairs committee, and there is a subtext of anti-americanism. but i am rather reassured by the overall tone of this morning’s debate. we need to close ranks to ensure that whatever new regime is put in place for sanctions is not breached by those seeking commercial or political advantage. if eu member states really have aspirations to play a greater role in security policy, then let them contribute to enforcement of the no-fly zone, and ensure that whatever sanctions regime is imposed is rigorously enforced.
mr president, we should remind ourselves as mr van orden has done why we have these no-fly zones in the first place. they are simply to restrict saddam hussein’s ability to kill and terrorise his own people. the no-fly zones are in support of security council resolution no 688 which demanded an end to his brutal repression. they are justified under international law as a legitimate response to prevent a grave humanitarian crisis. without them, we would have seen the continued brutal repression of the shias and the kurds. we would have seen once again as we saw in 1991, the use of helicopter gunships and aircraft to murder, to gas and to displace. so the no-fly zones are vital in avoiding humanitarian disaster. yet those enforcing the no-fly zones have themselves come under constant attack. since january 1999 there have been 1 200 attempts to target aircraft with surface-to-air missiles or anti-aircraft weapons. this year alone, there have already been more attacks than there were in the whole of the year 2000. the coalition aircraft are legally authorised to respond to these attacks in self-defence, and they have done so entirely in accordance with international law, attacking only those units which are threatening them. we cannot allow the pilots who are trying to protect humanity to be themselves endangered. that would be irresponsible, and would also be a betrayal of them. finally, on sanctions, we should not forget a simple message: the sanctions are not causing the suffering of the iraqi people. saddam hussein is causing the suffering, as he has done from the day he came to power, and it is entirely in saddam hussein’s hands to lift those sanctions, by meeting the requirements that the un are making on him.
- thank you very much, sir. i was not aware of this problem, but i will draw the attention of the president and suggest that she defend the right of members to ask questions.
- these two incidents are regrettable, but may i suggest that you put the question to the chairman of the board of quaestors, so that they can discuss it? as regards the second incident, however, i would mention my experience in a quite different context. the national costume of my own country, scotland, is worn with a dagger in the sock. if the services are informed in advance that this is part of the national costume, access may be granted. i think the problem we had with the ecuadorian indian is that the security forces were suddenly confronted with a man with a spear and they were not warned. i think, however, that you should raise this matter with the college of quaestors.
- the vote will be taken at the end of the sitting. - texts adopted during the sitting will be forwarded. - the agenda for the next partsession: see minutes.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.15 p.m.)
i entirely agree with mr swoboda. i think it is very important that we have some mechanism in the house to adjust the agenda when an urgent situation such as this arises. the sad fact is that, although this particular disease affects only animals, it can be transmitted by air over a distance of some 200 kilometres and therefore any member state within the european union and beyond is vulnerable. it is therefore a matter of urgency. the commission should make a statement, whether in the presence of the council or not, and i urge you to put it to the house.
madam president, clearly the house will want to make its own decision on this very important issue but i should like to stress that at no point has the british government not accepted that this is a crisis facing not just british farming and rural communities but potentially the whole of the farming industry in the european union. however, the outbreak is not out of control, as the remarks by some people here might give the impression. indeed, when commissioner byrne spoke in front of the house, he congratulated the uk government on its swift, direct handling of this issue. cooperation is continuing to take place between the british government and the relevant authorities in the commission and throughout the union, to ensure that the outbreak is controlled, contained and eradicated as soon as possible.
madam president, according to the rules of procedure, which we must respect, you need not consult the house. rule 37 makes it quite clear that the commission may, at any time, ask for permission to make a statement. if the commission is willing to make such a statement you do not need to put it to the house. you can so decide under your authority as president.
madam president, i have a point of order relating to the nassauer report. normally this parliament is consulted on a commission proposal. by derogation from that, under rule 61, we can deal with a proposal from a member state government as well. in this particular case, though, parliament is to deliver an opinion on a position that has been adopted within the council. it originated with a member state but we are not giving an opinion on the actual proposal which was put to the council. i am not seeking to hold up the nassauer report but i would ask for the matter to be referred, in future cases, to the committee on constitutional affairs because this is a very important precedent. if, in future, we are going to deal with the changing target of the latest document within the council instead of the proposal that initiates the legislative procedure, which we then normally seek to amend and where the author can take account of our amendments, we may be going down a slippery slope. this could be unfortunate for the future and i would ask you to invite the constitutional affairs committee to look at that. i would hope that, unlike five minutes ago, this genuine point of order to make sure our rules are properly applied will not be misinterpreted as a political manoeuvre to keep something on or off the agenda. i am not seeking to remove the nassauer report from the agenda. nor was i, just now, seeking to prevent us discussing foot-and-mouth. my concern was to make sure that we respect our rules of procedure because they are the foundation of the powers and privileges of this house.
it was a request for you to refer this to the constitutional affairs committee.
madam president, on a point of order. in your legal tour d'horizon you seem to imply that at some point the uk authorities had asked for my immunity to be waived – or that is how it came through in the interpretation. i should like to assure you that never happened, although i did give evidence in a case which involved a member for whom a similar request was made.
deputising for the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. – mr president, i am standing in for my colleague, mr mombaur, who is unable to attend as he is unwell, to give the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. the committee's opinion was originally adopted in april 1999, in the last parliament, and was readopted by the committee in this parliament by an overwhelming majority with the original wording. the draftsman, mr mombaur, noted that only two things had changed in the two years. i should like to quote his comments that: "first, the federal german government's policy of ending electricity production at nuclear power stations after a further 32 years has shown clearly that, at least in the case of the transport of spent fuel elements, safety problems do not exist. secondly, it has been made clear that a change of government in one member state does not provide a legal basis for terminating agreements concluded at intergovernmental level." six conclusions were adopted by the industry committee, largely of a technical nature, to emphasise the low levels of radioactivity and exposure involved, particularly in comparison with naturally occurring background radiation. i note conclusions 1 and 2 concerning the standing working group on the safe transport of radioactive materials in the european union, which was established in 1982 at parliament's request, which call for its work to continue and for its proceedings to be made public. i am intrigued to see commissioner lamy here this afternoon. does this means the commission is intending to extend the trade in nuclear materials beyond the boundaries of the european union?
mr president, today we must assess what this report is about, which is the safe transportation of radioactive materials. it is a response to the commission's communication on recent changes to the international atomic energy agency's transport regulations. i say that because there were times during the debate in the committee when the central issue of transportation of radioactive material seemed to get lost in the wider debate between the pro- and anti-nuclear lobbies. we should, however, thank mrs isler béguin for starting the work, and certainly our chairman mr hatzidakis for finishing it, so we can have that debate here today. the commission takes the view that the risk associated with transportation of radioactive material is low but that efforts should be made to inform the public and the emergency services of the safety of the transportation process. a multi-annual plan should also be adopted by the community. we broadly support this view. sadly, in the former rapporteur's report, she took a position which included all dangerous inherent radioactivity, went against reprocessing of radioactive material and recommended that the euratom treaty be withdrawn and the nuclear sector be covered by a chapter about energy in the treaty. we in the pse felt, as i said earlier, that this was a report on the transportation of radioactive material and had nothing to do with the merits or demerits of the nuclear industry. that is why we made compromises and i feel at the moment that we have a balanced report we can all support. on behalf of the pse, therefore, i can say that we will support the two amendments that we tabled down in the plenary but reject the majority of amendments which either defend the nuclear industry as if no problem exists, or damn it as some form of devil-incarnate industry. my group believes that the report as it stands, while not perfect, is at least balanced, realistic, objective and addresses the issues that it is supposed to address, namely the transportation of radioactive material.
mr president, i apologise for arriving a little late, but aircraft being what they are i am lucky to be here at all. like mr simpson, i speak for the north-west of england, where the nuclear industry is of huge significance – in springfield, where the rods are manufactured, sellafield, where they are changed back into something more useful, and warrington, the headquarters of british nuclear fuels. this industry is never complacent. it recognises the concerns of people in britain and europe about the transportation of nuclear material and takes huge trouble in testing what needs to be done. its record in the transportation of dangerous goods is amongst the best. there has never been a fatality in the transportation of nuclear materials and, if the industry has its way, there never will be. the debate referred to by mr fitzsimons was one that i saw when i was northern ireland minister. it is tendentious and ill-informed. it is also an attack – in which, if i may say so, the group of the greens is also involved – upon my constituents in the north-west and everyone else who works in this most important and significant industry both in britain and in other parts of the union. this is not the time for a debate on nuclear power except to say that it is the future. it is one of the greenest ways of generating power anywhere in the world. the sooner we realise that the better. i am delighted that my amendments in committee were significant in changing the nature of this report. i have tabled some more for the vote tomorrow, along similar lines. i am proud to be associated with the rejection of the original report and, i hope, the passing of the report as amended.
first, two questions addressed to the commission. paragraph 9 of the draft report talks about the need to preserve the peace clause and special safeguard clause for a provisional period. i am very curious to know what your views are on the preservation of those clauses as the talks proceed. secondly, paragraph 22, which mr seguro just mentioned. i understand that gats do not necessarily affect publicly controlled utilities. i was wondering if you could perhaps expand on what the implications of gats might be on utilities which have already been privatised. now, two observations. firstly, it seems to me that there is a unique opportunity for increasing common ground between the eu and the us as far as agriculture is concerned. this is principally because of the profligacy of the american government in supporting american farmers to an ever greater degree over the last few years, in a sense removing the moral authority that the us has had in the past in accusing the common agricultural policy of being wasteful and distorting. i wonder if you really feel there is an opportunity for you and the us to find new common ground in the agriculture talks. finally, you will not be surprised to hear that i wish to stress the importance of the latter part of paragraph 40. the nice summit might have been a halting step forward in terms of efficiency, but it is a serious step backward in terms of legitimacy and transparency as far as the conduct of the eu's trade policy is concerned. this is notably exemplified by the way in which the 133 committee continues to take important and highly political decisions in the trade field without any published records or public account. in view of the lacuna which has opened up after the somewhat pot-pourri result of nice, i urge both the commission and the council to look very favourably at the idea of an interinstitutional agreement in this field. if not, the moral authority of the whole european union on transparency and legitimacy is seriously weakened in the wto.
mr president, just a couple of small points at the outset: clearly the seattle ministerial conference failed to agree on a new round because developing countries refused to proceed with trade liberalisation. they made it clear that they did not feel that their concerns about the implementation of the uruguay round had been met and therefore they were not prepared to go any further. they were insisting, as they continue to do – as you know, commissioner – on implementation. secondly, we need in this parliament to be much more aware of the need to monitor international obligations, in particular since no reference has been made here today to the acp-eu cotonou agreement and its agricultural trade protocols. the eu must be much more sensitive to these concerns than it has been in the past, though i pay tribute to the commissioner, especially as regards access to markets. now i want to touch briefly on the rather shadowy side of globalisation which is typified for me by access to medicines and the clear need for a review of trips. eleven million people will die of preventable diseases this year. in zambia, treatment of one member of a family for pneumonia will take up the family's entire monthly budget. this is of deep concern. as you are aware, the pharmaceutical companies have taken the south african government to court about its medicines act of 1997. this act would allow parallel importing and would authorise the genetic production of patented medicines for the government's non-profit, non-commercial use. four million people are hiv-infected in that country and the south african government believes it has a constitutional duty to do this. would the commissioner agree with me that the trips is neutral on parallel imports and actually allows for compulsory licensing? and would he agree with me that there should be a reduction in patent protection, reinforced health safeguards and a ban on the threatened use of trade sanctions?
mr president, this report represents a huge missed opportunity. i urge parliament to think about what kind of message we will send to the european tax-payer and the farmers in the candidate countries if we roll over again, as mr daul proposes. i have no problem with mr daul personally rolling over for the sugar producers – as he is one. he can roll over as much as he likes, but this parliament should resist any temptation to roll over the sugar regime yet one more time. why is it that with increasing pressure on farm spending, any real chance to reform the cap is greeted with a shrug of indifference in this chamber? this report demonstrates how powerful the farming lobby is, although pressure for reform is mounting, not just from european citizens but also from far-sighted farmers themselves, who recognise that the current regime is clearly unsustainable in the long term. it has remained unaltered for 32 years and its highly protectionist nature has kept the eu sugar price at three times the world level, discriminating unfairly against consumers and damaging the competitiveness of the industry. we now know that the wto and enlargement commitments mean that another roll-over would wreck the eu's international credibility. a recent court of auditors' report concluded that the sugar regime leads to substantial costs for the eu budget and for the consumer. so what we need is serious, well-thought out reform. the long-term ramifications of mr daul's plans to do nothing will mean deeper and deeper quota cuts shrinking the industry and threatening employment. we have sadly been bombarded by a series of unfounded claims on storage levy and the acp, ignoring the fact that the money saved could actually be redirected towards other agricultural expenditure. i am angry with the outcome of this report and concerned that the unanimously agreed view of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy was ignored by the committee on agriculture and rural development.
mr president, can i congratulate mr daul on his report and first of all say that i will be supporting it tomorrow. i will be supporting my electorate, who are large sugar producers, and i will not be supporting the multinationals who are lobbying very hard. i would just say to you commissioner that i worked on the 77 protocol which was very much involved with helping the developing world countries. i heard mrs gill talking about the way in which the consumer was going to benefit. let me make it absolutely plain to all of you here today, that the consumer will not benefit from a reduction in the price paid to british and european farmers for sugar. they certainly do not in the rest of the world where sugar is much cheaper. why is it that i am being lobbied by the biggest single user of sugar in the world, a us company, specifically to get the price down? i heard commissioner lamy speaking before about trade relations with the us. will the united states be reducing the price that they pay their farmers for their sugar as we are going to do, or are they going to continue with their very high support? mr daul, you said that the sugar regime was a special agreement. i would argue a little bit with you on that because i believe it is unique. first of all, the tax-payer does not pay for it. secondly, it benefits farmers directly, unlike many parts of the present cap, and thirdly, the sugar protocol itself helps some of the poorest countries in the world. it is very important that we continue to support those countries. i worked very hard to get them support and i intend to keep that support for those acp countries. we have a saying, commissioner, in the uk, if it is not broke, don't mend it. please do not try to mend this system.
mr president, commissioner monti, we all realise that we are facing a crisis in terms of our press and communications policy for the union's institutions. our institutions are regarded with contempt at worst and apathy at best. but if you look at the work that we actually do in the european union, it is high-quality work of great significance to all of our citizens and has an impact on their everyday lives. why therefore cannot that message be put across with greater alacrity and greater effectiveness, by the commission in particular? last week, at an event in my constituency, trade unionists were taken aback at the sheer breadth of legislation that we had been able to enact, and ensured that member states enacted, in favour of their rights. yet that message does not seem to get through to them on a day-to-day basis and we have to ask why. i very much believe that although we are an elected house and the commission is not, and although the commission has one part of the policy process and we have another, we in fact have shared interests. i spend much of my time trying to destroy the myths that are growing up about the european union and although i welcome the statement of the commissioner, particularly on public relations and rapid rebuttal, i still feel unassisted by the commission in what we are trying to do. i regret that it has taken until now to get a communication on this issue. i have to ask why the interinstitutional talks on this issue are still stalled? i also have to ask why, when the commission is ambitious enough – quite rightly – to want to reform the whole of european governance, it does not put at the centre of that strategy a radical reworking and modernisation of its communications and information policy. quite honestly, we have an awfully long way to go in terms of delivering the policy that the people deserve. these questions must be answered because going forward with the white paper on governance cannot be done in all sincerity, unless there is a commitment by the european commission to come to terms with the problems it is experiencing within its organisation. certainly it will have a partner in parliament in attempting to rework the system radically. in my own country, my party is famed for its spin-doctors. i am not necessarily advocating such a development in the european union but we must look – and that is why i welcome your words commissioner – at the whole question of public relations. if we are to realise the european project that we here in this room want, then we must have a voice that can sell that project and at the moment i am afraid we do not.
mr president, i very much welcome what the commissioner has said, for three reasons. firstly, because although we are about to invoke the wto dispute procedure, it is an unwieldy procedure and we may lose capacity in the interim. secondly, because although i can understand the context and rationale for withdrawing the shipbuilding intervention fund, i am nevertheless convinced that we need to have structural measures, particularly in the areas of research, construction of oil and drilling vessels, chemical carriers and cruise liners. while the second report clearly outlines the inadequacies of china's development in this area – poor management, corruption etc. – while they are outside the wto, i do not think we can be sanguine about the potential that they might develop. therefore we need to take action very quickly. in a constituency where we have lost 10 000 shipbuilding jobs in the last ten years, i welcome the measures that you have outlined tonight but hope that we can move faster and further in the coming months.
mr president, the belfast shipyard harland & wolff is a famous shipyard which used to employ 27 000 workers and now employs just over 1 000. this is largely because of unfair competition, and certainly what is happening in the far east illustrates that. there is something else, however, of vital importance to this parliament: is this unfair competition now being introduced here? a few days ago our shipyard was to close because it failed to win the contract to build two ships. the company made a very interesting statement after harland & wolff were turned down. we need to see that there are no hidden subsidies in eu countries that hamper fair competition between shipbuilding countries.
mr president, i rise to ask whether you share my concern about the recent decision of the european court of justice in the bernard connolly case. do you agree with me that this is an outrageous affront to free speech and that it flies directly in the face of the so-called charter of fundamental rights? if so, will you please write to the european court of justice expressing our concern over this issue.
rapporteur. – mr president, this debate on my report is most timely, coming as it does only two days ahead of the first formal justice and home affairs council under the swedish presidency. progress on the directive and framework decision setting common penalties for facilitating entry and residence in the eu will be on the agenda at that council meeting. when i was the uk minister responsible for carriers' liability and other immigration issues, i always found that although the uk had strict rules on carriers' liability the system itself was open to criticism for being to some extent unbalanced and unfair. some carriers were exempt from attention and in the eu as a whole the discrepancies between the way different nation states treated this issue led to loopholes and weaknesses in what should be an area of cooperation and coordination. because the burden-sharing was clearly unfair, we have an opportunity here. the french presidency took the initiative but i hope my report has improved upon that initiative in a way that will be seen to be fair and reasonable in dealing with what is undoubtedly a very difficult problem. my report ensures that carriers' liability extends to all transport to the eu of third-country nationals who are undocumented. that is fair and, although individual carriers' groups will be upset that there should be any liability at all, if it is spread across all the responsible carriers it will help them all. i also believe, however, that the responsibility of carriers should be limited. some have suggested that they should actually be required to retransport the people they have carried or remedy the situation. that would be draconian and excessive. carriers should, of course, report the matter to the police or other appropriate authorities, who would then take the necessary steps. it is only fair that, if an individual is subsequently granted asylum, the penalty on the carrier should be repaid. that has not been the case up to now but it is included in my report. the final point is that penalties must be approximated throughout europe. at present some countries have no penalty whatsoever, some impose a very small fine and in some countries the fines are perhaps too penal. approximating the fines will help to stop this activity and make people work together. it is important that we deal with this matter. carriers must not be left alone; the authorities have responsibilities too. we wish to be humanitarian but this is an issue that can and must be dealt with by the eu as a whole. on that basis, i commend my report to the house.
mr president, first of all, i am not against cooperation against organised crime and illegal immigration in itself, but i am totally opposed to carriers' liability in principle. i believe it is a back-door privatisation of immigration procedures and, as others have said, it passes the responsibility for checking documents to check-in staff or drivers rather than leaving it with official immigration staff who should be well trained in a non-racist and humane way. it is a pity that this service was left out of the article 13 anti-discrimination directive by the council. i object strongly to the backing-winners approach of ‘your money back’ if you have transported a winner in the asylum-seeking stakes. like others, i also believe that this is an initiative which is wrong in pragmatic terms, being part of a piecemeal approach to creating a common immigration policy, which we have seen far too much of in this house already. we must have the framework first and then look at how it is best implemented and whether such harmonisation is appropriate. this fragmented approach is neither coherent nor sensible. i would commend to the house the amendment which has been supported by three groups: amendments nos 10, 11 and 13. there are other amendments to this report also worthy of consideration. i shall be supporting amendment no 12.
mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr wiebenga, on his report, which gets to the heart of the problem we are facing at the moment: temporary protection for people in the most difficult circumstances. i regret that mr nassauer has ignored what the rapporteur said about the use of language and has talked about "burden sharing", because the issue is actually how different member states accept their responsibilities and try to treat people in very desperate circumstances fairly. the rapporteur also referred, quite rightly, to the kosovo crisis, in which member states failed to take on their responsibilities and poorer states, such as albania, were left to deal with large numbers of refugees. with the new mechanism that should be avoided. if there is a mass influx of refugees into the community, member states will have agreed in advance to share the responsibility. this temporary protection needs to cover not only spontaneous mass influxes into the community territory but also non-spontaneous influxes, when people have been airlifted out of difficult areas by member states, or perhaps other parties, and possibly assisted to come to the eu. we must ensure that appropriate provisions are in place. another very important point on which my group has tabled an amendment, amendment no 44, concerns the speed and the workings of the directive. when a refugee crisis occurs, it is absolutely imperative that the member states act as quickly as possible. i applaud the rapporteur for introducing a time limit for the council decision. however, my group has tabled an amendment to bring that forward. we do not believe that three months is acceptable. we are asking that it should be one month. i am fully aware of the logistical and organisational difficulties that this presents, but action needs to be immediate and an emergency council meeting is a small price to pay for ensuring that those in need receive protection. amendments nos 45 and 46 concern the rights of individuals. when they are in member states they have the right to asylum and protection. we should ensure that these people are not forced to return to their countries if that is going to create desperate problems for them. member states must try to do more to integrate refugees into society. young people should be put into education and adults given the opportunity to work as quickly as possible, so they can be seen as active and useful participants in society. we hope that situations like kosovo will not happen again, but if they do we must ensure that we are prepared. my group will be supporting this with the amendments to which i have just referred.
mr president, i welcome mr wiebenga's report, not only for its strengthening of the practical arrangements for sharing responsibility for kosovo-type situations which i am sure our citizens can relate to as a demonstration of european solidarity, but also for mr wiebenga's insistence that a regime of temporary protection must not undermine and become a substitute for the geneva convention and the rights of beneficiaries to apply for asylum. mr wiebenga has added some useful, strengthening amendments to the clause already in the commission proposal: for instance, on insisting on non-refoulement, to insist that the dublin convention shall not apply and that the host member state shall consider the asylum application, and on the involvement of unhcr. all these are to be welcomed. i am sorry that the ppe-de group insisted on forcing amendments to the article on family reunion. i feel the clause about unmarried partners which says that member states may admit an unmarried partner if the legislation of the member state treats unmarried couples in the same way as married couples is slightly perverse. i would have thought that it would be rather odd to treat them differently if domestic legislation did not. the other point i want to make is the contrast between mr wiebenga's report and the previous one by mr kirkhope. mr wiebenga's report is based on a commission proposal in line with the tampere conclusions and the scoreboard. it passed through our committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs constructively, without major dissension and results in a report which sensibly improves the commission proposals. what a contrast to the series of members states' proposals. mr vitorino said politely what many of us in parliament are saying rather more rudely, that the council and member states need to get their act together on asylum and immigration. mr wiebenga's report has been a model of how we can work constructively between the commission and parliament. all we need is the council to work as constructively with us.
mr president, it would appear to me from the vote and from the report that, in fact, we have rejected the council's proposal. (applause)
mr president, on this, as indeed on the two subsequent reports we are going to vote, we should now vote in favour of the legislative resolution which rejects the council's proposal.
in writing. - the reason i voted against the amended version of the proposal is that the report proposed to maintain a system which has not been revised in 32 years. the com in the sugar sector is not viable in the long term given the constraints of category 1 (agriculture budget). it also has major implications for the european taxpayer, for employment in the food and drink industry and for the consumer. but, more importantly, this report rejects any improvement in the management of the sugar regime as the minimum measure proposed by the commission: the abolition of the storage levy. my opposition to the reintroduction of the storage levy is based on three factors: firstly, the storage levy affects consumers. the abolition of this system will therefore mean that sugar producers will have to bear the costs of storage. second, the abolition of the storage levy scheme will introduce a competitive factor in a market heavily affected by the distortion. not only will this measure benefit the sugar industry and consumers, but it will also allow observers to assess the effects of restricted competition in the european sugar sector. finally, the budgetary resources allocated to the system (€300 million per year) could be reallocated to other agricultural expenditure. my second main concern with this report is that the daul amendments extend the current regime until 2005-06, contrary to the commission's proposal for a transitional regime of 2 years. i'm not in favor of a five-year re-election. the reform momentum is gaining momentum. sugar prices in the eu are 2.5 to 3 times higher than in the rest of the world. such a system risks undermining the eu's credibility in relation to its imminent enlargement and the obligations imposed by the wto. the report also ignores the conclusions of a recent report by the court of auditors which denounce the lack of profitability and mismanagement of the scheme and establishes that the current system is a significant cost to the union budget and to the consumer. i have great sympathy for the farmers and i express my support for them; i know that many of them recognise the need for serious and thoughtful reform to ensure that the sugar sector is ready to meet future demand. on the contrary, the extension would lead to an ever-greater reduction in quotas, which would reduce the base of european industry and cause an increase in unemployment. it is also impossible to maintain artificially high prices. this would be detrimental to the sugar industry and the consumer. and then, a certain degree of competition must be gradually introduced into this sector. another interesting point is that extensive studies have been undertaken to evaluate viable alternatives to the current regime. these studies take into account the impact on producers and consumers so as to enable the commission to formulate more detailed proposals for further reform of the sugar regime on the basis of these reports.
in writing. - like other members of the uk conservative delegation, i voted today in favour of a limited extension of the current eu sugar regime, as mentioned in the daul report. we all want and are committed to a complete overhaul of the common agricultural policy, but this is more likely to be carried out in a thorough and systematic way if reforms in other sectors are seen as part of an overall programme in 2006; moreover, there is no absolute guarantee that the early abolition of the sugar regime necessarily causes the immediate fall in the price of sugar for the consumer. in addition, the crisis facing our farmers in britain at the moment requires that this reform be postponed for the time being in order to prevent further deterioration of their economic situation and to preserve stability in our rural communities.
in writing. - i strongly oppose mr daul's report on the sugar market, which aims to extend the scheme in its current form until 2006. i find the dose of sugar market reforms proposed by the commission much easier to accept. reform of the sugar market is crucial to tackle overproduction and high prices on the european market. in addition, it is necessary to comply with wto rules. this is important for european consumers and taxpayers. i want an annual reduction of the production quota by 115 000 tonnes and the abolition of reimbursement of storage costs. drastic changes are to be introduced in 2003, when the commission will carry out a review of the cereals, oilseeds and dairy sectors. we must reduce the agricultural budget, which absolutely requires reform. in essence, the common agricultural policy must be completely overhauled and reformed. we are wasting far too much taxpayer money on this budget and we need to seriously consider restructuring and reforming our agricultural policy throughout the eu. i do not approve of this report. it seems more bitter than sweet.
in writing. - my colleagues and i, members of the labour party within the pse, voted in favour of certain points in the kirkhope report. we thus recognise that the proposals, far from being perfect, were at least attempting to address some, and only some, of the problems currently being faced. the european union and individual countries need to become more involved in addressing the problems and conditions in the countries of origin that are driving people to seek refuge in the european union. we cannot make progress in this area overnight, and in the meantime it is not in the interests of these desperate people, who are fleeing conflict, persecution and other hardships, to hand them over to unscrupulous people or criminals who are trying to make a living from human trafficking. we all have a responsibility to ensure that traffickers do not profit from it. several of my colleagues and i went to calais and saw what was happening there. i have witnessed firsthand the casual attitude of many lorry drivers and their employers. these carriers must do more - they must scrupulously inspect all vehicles and means of transport to try to prevent a repeat of the dover tragedy. all companies owning trucks and other vehicles and all types of hauliers must take responsibility for their actions - a collective responsibility from top to bottom. similarly, there is a rationale behind the attempt to approximate fines in different states to ensure that there is a common front against these traffickers. this in turn means that all member states, britain, france, belgium and the other countries, must ensure that they have the appropriate systems and that the laws are applied. in supporting certain aspects of the kirkhope report we recognise the complexity of the issue and will continue to work towards the development of a comprehensive and detailed common asylum system for the european union, one that is centred on the humanitarian spirit and the interests of the most vulnerable.
in writing. - i commend the previous presidency, france, for its plan to severely punish, throughout the eu, carriers who bring illegal immigrants into the territory of the member states. illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings are a major concern for the european union. we must rise to this challenge together. although there are arguments in favour of genuine asylum seekers, who file their applications through the usual channels, the flow of illegal immigrants entering british ports, often through human trafficking gangs, is alarming. we must send a strong signal to traffickers: wherever they operate in europe, they must understand that they will be severely punished. in this respect, the reaction to the italian-british proposal to set up community teams of police and immigration officers in the western balkans has been encouraging. truck drivers are required to be part of the operation and to carry out thorough checks of their vehicles to ensure that no one has boarded. however, the appalling conditions of the migrants on the trucks is a more worrying element. of course, the victims are willing to take enormous risks to enter the territory of the european union, and that is understandable. for this reason, it is important that we also look at the root causes of these displacements, whether they are fleeing persecution, poverty or other motives. we are all very fortunate to live in democratic and prosperous countries, and i would certainly like to be able to open our doors to people who are not as fortunate as we are. the measures proposed are simply a matter of common sense and will help us to avoid human trafficking in european countries. the uk labour government is implementing measures to speed up asylum applications and to make the system fairer and faster, so as to encourage people to make formal applications rather than risking their lives in lorries, boats or trains.
commission - madam president, the honourable member is right. we have not changed the amount of the transfer payments, because that is a point that has not been raised. we have not received any complaints in this respect, only about the international transfer system, for which we have intervened. now, when there is no provision for compensation at the end of the contract, the bosman judgment provides for the payment of training compensation on condition that this compensation corresponds to the actual costs. that is what the bosman judgment says and that is what the agreement with fifa is intended to put into practice.
madam president, can i welcome the forbearance and patience shown by the commissioner's staff during the last seven months. many of us do not understand why this could not have been done in seven minutes, because it is clear that we have principles. like many of my colleagues i am interested in the impact on clubs in the north-west of england, which is, after all, the home of football. we still have no answer on the issue of training compensation. clubs in my region are concerned that the money they invest in buying players will not give them a return on their investment and, as mr cushnahan said, they will not be interested in running football academies and in investing in the local community if they cannot see a return on their investment. so far i cannot see how training compensation is going to deliver that. in today's times newspaper uefa and fifa are clearly indicating that this will lead to lower transfer fees, which has a knock-on impact, particularly for smaller clubs in my area. commissioner, you have a review clause, which will be tried for two seasons – do you then intend to act to ensure that there is a free and good flow of transfer of money between clubs or will it be left to governing bodies to act in this area? now that we have closed this chapter, commissioner, can i also extend an invitation to you to visit the north-west to see one of the premier teams play football. they would be very happy for you to visit us in the north-west.
commission. - i accept the invitation gladly because, believe me, before taking any decisions on this matter, i went to the scene. i visited small clubs and training centers. the theory is one thing, the reality on the ground is another. i saw him just as the deal was being made - monday. i met with the english football league and the representatives of the second division clubs on tuesday. they asked me, concerned, to explain the terms of the agreement. and they said to me, "well, that's what they said. they said, "well, that's what they said". it is, of course, to be seen how this will translate into practical action in the clubs. believe me, we'll be watching this very closely. i should also like to say that the criticisms made by the football league were not directed at the commission but rather at the uefa executives and the european football executives in general who said they had never been consulted. the league has never discussed with uefa, and yet i think that in a democracy, which is also to be born within our sports federations, discussion between the main stakeholders should be the rule. and i must also tell you that my colleague anna diamantopoulou, who is responsible for the free movement of workers, is very shocked by the lack of discussion between clubs and players, for example. it offered its good offices so that this discussion under the european collective bargaining could take place in the future. transparency must also enter the world of sport.
commissioner, you mentioned the ongoing evaluation that you will be making over the next two years. i wonder whether it would not have been wiser to have carried out an assessment of the economic impact on small clubs before you travelled down this road. many of the smaller clubs in my region, who cradle players for the obvious talents of the north-west clubs in the uk, are particularly worried about this. there has been a lot of talk about football here today, but you mentioned sport and this is specifically a sports remit. other sports have transfer fees and i wonder which other sports you have discussed this with. i find it very interesting that players now have different rights depending on their age – 23 being the case in point here. i was wondering for commissioner diamantopoulou whether this sets a precedent for other european employment legislation. finally, commissioner, you mentioned the changes to fifa rules and regulations. the calculation behind the effective training costs was recently posted on the fifa website. fifa state it would be impossible to do this for individual players so they want to do this by league and type of club. this recommendation means that the smaller the club, the smaller the amount of money the club will receive in compensation for training costs. the categories are a category-one club of a top level, with a high quality training centre; category two: still professional but on a lower level – second division clubs in the uk; category three: all types of third-division clubs, as in the uk; category four: amateur players – vauxhall conference and other amateur footballers. are we not building another type of discrimination into football, which we really did not need in the first place?
commission. - i do not wish to interfere in the internal affairs of your country, mr president. i think that the football authorities in your country, which have their autonomy, because that autonomy has been fully recognized, should do their homework. and in the commission's view, this work must be done in a transparent way, in discussions between all those concerned, rich clubs, less rich clubs, important players, young or medium players. i very much hope that transparency and democracy will come into play. now, the training fees. it's very clear to us. these charges cannot be prohibitive, otherwise they would impede free movement and would be in clear and unequivocal contradiction with the bosman judgment. that's why they're going to be capped. the second thing - i have already said in my introduction - is that for us solidarity is an extremely important element. so training costs and the solidarity fund must work in a cascade, precisely to protect the smaller clubs. i have made this very clear and it was also included in the nice declaration. we have a social responsibility in sport, and it is exercised mainly at the bottom of the pyramid. i think that with this agreement we have succeeded, madam president, in two things. we've managed to strengthen the bottom of the pyramid without cutting the top off. it was a gamble, it was not easy, but let us hope that in practice, since we now have to see how this will happen in practice, this good acquisition will also be preserved.
commission. - i started dealing with this matter as european commissioner for sport in the summer of 1999. since then, all the commission's policy has taken account of the specific nature of sport. in fact, at the helsinki summit in december 1999, a commission statement on the social dimension of sport was presented to the heads of state or government. since then, nothing has changed, quite the opposite. we have made the specificity of sport much more than a statement: we have made it an application. it is important to note, however, that tomorrow a future treaty will include an article on the specific nature of sport. however, ladies and gentlemen, this will not abolish the right to competition, the right to free movement or any of the fundamental rights enshrined in the treaty, because sportsmen are not above the treaty. so let me get this straight. the inclusion of the specific nature of sport would be very useful to me as commissioner for sport, because i could - finally! - devise a programme specific to sport, which i cannot do directly now. i must always go indirectly through education, health, culture, that is to say, through all the other elements which are included in the treaty. so, the specificity of the sport, yes, we have always respected it. the sports exception, which some people want and which would mean that the rules of the treaty do not apply to sport, i say to you very clearly: no!
commission - we have a clear and specific commitment to this from fifa. we have a commitment that there will be a kind of cascading effect with repercussions all the way to the club that has sponsored the player from the age of 12, and we have a commitment that 5% of the transfer amounts will be paid to this fund. we will of course see if things are working in practice as promised and if there are problems, we will make our voice heard clearly. let me take this a step further, madam president, because there are two very important decisions: solidarity between richer and poorer clubs and the protection of young people through the code of conduct. i believe, and i intend to put a proposal to the ministers for sport under the belgian presidency, that measures of this kind could very well be extended to other sports, because the protection of young people does not only concern football but also all sports, such as solidarity between clubs playing in the first division and small clubs doing the work at the start. all this will therefore be used to lobby other sports bodies, other sports disciplines, to take initiatives in the same direction.
madam president, i wish to begin by congratulating commissioners reding, monti and diamantopoulou. we have all come a very long way since last august. the partnership has been invaluable in proving that we can come to some agreement on this issue. the principles that have been established, especially around the specificity of sport, are extremely important. however, my worry remains with the players' associations. i know that the commissioner may say that this is a matter for the sporting families, but ultimately we will have to sort it out, because if the players' associations either refuse to come on board or the players take action, then ultimately the agreement may be in tatters. first, what will mrs reding be doing to bring the players' associations on board and, secondly, are there any particular problems that she thinks we could resolve as far as the players are concerned?
madam president, i am pleased that there has been an agreement. obviously everybody is looking into the detail now and although we were very excited when we first got the agreement, i think a lot of people would agree that it is going to be quite difficult to find out whether it is going to benefit some of the smaller clubs – in particular, academy clubs – as much as we hoped. i know this has been touched on, but stoke city in my constituency has an academy club as good as manchester united and my fear is that it will get less money because it is not in the premier league. i would like the commissioner to say whether she is going to look again at whether all clubs could be treated on the same level. i know fifa has recommended it. i understand that a hungarian player who has had his transfer put on hold is probably going to mount a legal challenge. what would happen if that legal challenge is successful? would we then have to go back to the drawing-board?
draftsperson of the opinion of the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs. – mr president, one major contribution which the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights made to this report is the emphasis on access to environmental information as a right, not a concession. we also contributed the clause which says that the standards for member states should also apply to the eu institutions. the contribution from my committee on practical arrangements incorporated in the final report includes a number of amendments which i am glad were taken up by the environment committee. i am talking for instance about the inclusion of nuclear fuel and energy and of financial as well as economic analyses, the establishment of accessible registers or lists of available information, the idea that the applicant cannot be charged more than a reasonable cost, which is the actual cost price of collecting the information, and the insistence that there must be a harm test for exceptions, i.e. harm must outweigh the benefits of disclosure. but as far as the scope of the proposal is concerned, i am rather disappointed, if not surprised, at the suggestion that the uk government, british labour and conservative members sought to exclude private companies whose activities affect the environment. this is the kind of loophole that allowed the previous conservative government to exempt the privatised water companies. those amendments failed but i am concerned that the amendment which did go through on article 2(2)(c) might limit the scope too much. one of the purposes of the new proposal was to close up these previous loopholes which allowed privatised utilities to escape the obligation. the commission text clearly covered privatised utilities. does the commissioner think the amendments on article 2(2)(c) that were adopted by the environment committee ensure that privatised companies which supply gas, electricity, water and so on will still be under the obligation to supply this information?
commission. – following the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam, which resulted in the transfer of the area of judicial cooperation in civil matters to the first pillar, the council adopted in may 2000 the brussels ii regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters of parental responsibility for children of both spouses. this regulation sets out rules on jurisdiction, automatic recognition and simplified enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and matters of parental responsibility for children. as a result, in these areas, accession to the 1996 convention on parental responsibility, to which you refer, has become a matter of community competence. this means that in these matters that i have mentioned, member states can no longer proceed to ratify the 1996 hague convention on parental responsibility on their own. the commission is fully conscious of the need to reinforce european union action in this area, both internally and externally and, as the honourable member suggests, to do so without delay. to this end, the commission plans this month to adopt a working document on the mutual recognition of decisions on parental responsibility. it is in this context that community accession to the 1996 hague convention on parental responsibility is at present being considered.
commission. – we have to clarify that conclusion of the 1996 convention lies partly within the exclusive competence of the community, because the rules in the brussels ii regulation are also affected, and partly within the competence of member states, because the convention has a much broader scope that goes far beyond the limits of parental responsibility deriving from the brussels ii regulation. the working document that the commission is producing this month will have two main targets. the first one is the follow-up to the brussels ii regulation, which we have talked about on a previous occasion, because we recognise that it is necessary to go beyond the brussels ii regulation to guarantee parental responsibility at community level. but on the other hand, there is scope for member states to adopt the convention and therefore we think they should do it without delay. we must recognise that it is necessary to clarify the way the union can accede to the convention, to improve the conditions under which member states can ratify the parts of the convention that do not fall under community responsibility. i do not have any indication of member states having specific difficulties with the 1996 convention but i know that only one member state – the netherlands – has ratified it up to now.
mr president, the commissioner has made it very clear that the convention in a sense falls into two parts: those parts covered by community law and those parts covered by the member states. but, as mrs banotti has indicated, the convention is a holistic document and it would be wrong if some member states had only part of it applied to them through the community law method and did not ratify the other part. now i know it is partly at the commissioner's responsibility, but will he, in pushing forward the ratification of the community part of the 1996 convention, also make it clear to member states that it makes sense for them to ratify the rest of that convention at the same time so that there is no disparity between the convention and the way it is applied in different member states within the community.
commission. – i reiterate and stress that the commission shares the anger of consumers. as i said in my first reply, it is not acceptable that cross-border payments are so much more expensive than payments made within the borders of any one country, so the concerns of the honourable member are shared by the commission. however, i must repeat that the commission is not in the business of regulating prices: the commission cannot tell banks what to charge. the commission can urge the banking industry and national administrations to intensify their efforts in the following areas: standardisation, infrastructure of payment systems and simplification of reporting obligations. to begin with the last point, the commission has been able to achieve a certain success in avoiding the necessity to report operations under eur 12 500. parliament and the commission are at one in wanting to increase that cut-off point to eur 50 000 per transfer. i made that clear when i spoke on the peijs report. so in the matter of the simplification of reporting obligations, the commission has been able to achieve a step forward. on the matter of standardisation, there is iban, the international banking account number, and the bic, the bank identifier code. both of these codes should make the transfer of money simpler, faster and cheaper. the commission is actively working on familiarising the general public with both the iban and bic in order to make them use them for so-called straight-through processing and therefore cheaper transfers. as far as infrastructure is concerned, the commission is again active on this front and has introduced a new low-value payment system – a particular system for small payments – called step 1 by the euro banking association. that has been in operation since 20 november 2000 and ought to contribute to more efficiency and therefore lower prices. in addition to that, some sectors have established their own systems, but only members or partners of those organisations have access to those systems. so i would assure the honourable members that we share their concerns. it is not the business of the commission to regulate prices – price control is a thing of the past. the matters which occupy the commission's mind are, as i have said, standardisation, the infrastructure and simplification of reporting procedures and obligations. the commission is active in improving the situation. no doubt, also as a result of competition, prices will go down. but at the moment they are far too high, and that is not acceptable.
mr president, i agree with the commission that it is not its job to fix prices. however, it is its job to ensure there is proper competition in the eu market. it is not true to say that the banks are operating a price ring and deliberately keeping the prices high because with globalisation there are fewer and fewer banks, which means less and less competition. what measures is the commission taking to ensure that the banks are not applying anti-competitive prices as a way of keeping their bank charges so high?
the commission. in its communication strategy on enlargement, the commission strongly encourages the involvement of local actors such as municipalities and cities, regional authorities, schools, chambers of commerce and crafts, trade unions, churches, associations and associations as credible representatives of civil society. the communication strategy is implemented in a decentralised manner. our delegations in the capitals of the candidate countries and our representations in the capitals of the member countries will each select cooperation partners on the spot, in the framework of a strategy which takes account of national and regional information needs. the aim of these cooperation partners is, of course, to give priority to local actors. the principle is that we cannot create completely new structures because of the time and internal limitations of this project. we also don't have enough money to use the tools of mass communication for ourselves - so we can't buy ads and we can't write tv spots - so it makes sense that we use the communication structures that exist in societies as a means of transporting our message. all the institutions and organizations you mention are, in my view, suitable means of transport. i am very grateful to you for your question, mr president, but above all because it gives me the opportunity to expressly welcome the commitment of the members of the house to this communication strategy and to point out that the campaign in the member states is suffering from this at the moment, and in fact has not yet started in earnest, because the part of the budget allocated under the prince budget line for this particular project has not yet been released. i would therefore also like to appeal to you to help us to ensure that the funds earmarked for the information campaign are released as soon as possible so that we can start implementing them now, because we are running out of time. it would be a bit late to inform people in the member states about enlargement when the treaties are already concluded. i have already said that the commission is not planning an advertising campaign, but information, communication and the possibility of participation. the main issues are, of course, the aspects of peace-keeping, the expansion of the zone of stability in europe, the question of a peace dividend to be used universally after the end of the cold war. we shall be discussing the economic exploitation of a sustainable growth zone in central and eastern europe, stretching from the baltic to istria. we are talking about making efficient use of the smooth division of labour which is emerging in the enlarged internal market, which is now reaching continental dimensions and which must compete successfully with east asia and north america on a global scale. we will talk about the implementation of eu standards in the candidate countries, which are in the interests of all eu citizens, for example in the field of the environment, road safety, competition law, internal security, food hygiene and many, many other areas. another important issue is the use of human capital, the unique historical life and social experiences of the citizens of the candidate countries for the future integration process. let me say it in one sentence: it is about creating awareness that we now have a historic chance to finally overcome the division of europe that has been imposed on us from outside.
i thank the commissioner for a very thorough answer and ask him three questions. first, does he agree with me that we have got to sell enlargement to, in particular, the people of the european union? if we do not sell enlargement we are likely to run into difficulties with ratification. secondly, how do these organisations get access to funds? do they have to go through the national offices of the commission? is there information available on how they do that? finally, he did not cover my point about twinning. is it possible to have projects which twin, for example, schools in member states with schools in the accession countries and also to twin local authorities in member states with local authorities in accession countries, to discuss the implications of enlargement and what it means for the candidate countries? would it be possible to bring forward proposals such as that?
commission - mrs kinnock, as you know, the main job losses at corus in wales are at the newport plant and the tin factory, which are in an objective 2 region, east wales, and an objective 1 region, west wales and the valleys, respectively. the shutton plant, which will also be subject to redundancies, is in an objective 3 area in east wales. a few weeks ago, on 2 february, in a press release, the commission stated from the very beginning of the worsening crisis that it was ready to discuss any proposal, as soon as the welsh assembly and other partners decided that the european union programmes should be refocused, redeployed to take account of the changing situation. i also made it clear in that same communiqué that, although existing programmes can be refocused or redeployed, we do not have the possibility, under the structural funds regulations or other policies, of providing additional funds from the union. i have also given this answer, which i confirm, in the case of a recent natural disaster in portugal, or in the case of the earthquake in greece. we have no budget line to deal with exceptional and abrupt spending, but we can and do redistribute funds and allocations to the regions that are affected. on 28 february, our departments met with a delegation from the welsh national assembly. the proposals which were discussed on that day concern aid for training, business development, site rehabilitation, support for local authorities, aid for infrastructure and we expect, within the framework of these guidelines, to receive more detailed proposals on the basis of regional partnership. i would add, mrs kinnock, that the european social fund can be granted through the single programming document for objective 1, which covers the west wales and the valleys region and represents eur 591 million. the east wales region is covered by the objective 3 programme, which has a budget of €132 million. these two programmes contain measures which may concern training and retraining of redundant workers, as well as measures to assist staff through continuing training. finally, until july 2002, the commission also has resources from the ecsc budget. this type of payment could be granted individually to dismissed steelworkers to facilitate their conversion to another job. the amounts involved are not considerable but nevertheless amount to a maximum of eur 3 000 per person, and the member state concerned is required to contribute the same amount. this is the information i wanted to give you in addition to the communiqué i published with the commission on 2 february.
commissioner, thank you for the enormous support and commitment you have made to wales at a very difficult time with the job losses in the steel industry. i was very interested, commissioner, to hear that you have met members and officials from the national assembly of wales and i wondered whether you had been given any idea of the timescales that are envisaged before any suggestions for programmes are made. secondly, commissioner, my labour welsh colleague and i wrote to you last week inviting you to come to wales to see first-hand what the problems are, what needs to be done and also to have an opportunity to meet some of the key people in the national assembly and other areas. so, commissioner, i very much hope, although i do not expect an answer now, that you will look seriously at that request and that we will see you in wales before too long.
mr president, i wanted to speak before the debate actually started, because we had been led to believe in our group meeting that one of the other political groups had tabled an amendment under rule 146 calling for this debate to be adjourned until the next part-session. i understand that it has not been brought forward and therefore i would have liked to put it forward in my own name at that time. as we have now started the debate we cannot do that, but i would just like to express my concern that i was not called before the debate started.
mr president, we have in front of us today a very important piece of legislation. it will affect our air quality, our water quality, the general quality of our environment throughout the whole of europe and beyond in the coming years if we bring it to fruition. that is, of course, if the member states have the will to do so. the proposal has now reached its second reading. we have insisted very strongly at first reading that the most stringent measures are taken to control gaseous emissions from large combustion plants throughout the union because of the acid gases that are formed, because of the effects upon the environment, and because of the effects upon human health. we have now reached the point where we have in front of us the common position. i understand the council has worked very hard to achieve this and it does propose new and better levels of emissions. however, my group thinks that things can go further. my group thinks that in combination with a number of other factors, mrs myller's report which is to follow for example, it is possible to put a little more into this proposal than we see already. in that respect, i would commend to you the amendments, particularly those that apply to the articles and the annex which control the emission limit values from the large combustion plants. it seems to me that we are confronted with a very difficult choice tonight because we must decide if what we vote tonight is at least in some way acceptable to the council. the council has indicated that it is unwilling to accept further amendments from parliament. if we achieve the appropriate votes tomorrow, that unwillingness becomes an obligation and the council will have to sit down and negotiate with parliament. that cannot be a bad thing in terms of the recognition of the ability of this parliament to achieve a high level of environmental protection for the people of europe. it seems to me that what we can do tomorrow in the vote is to take a few more steps forward to achieve a little bit more in terms of benefit to the environment. that has to be balanced against the possible consequences for the energy strategies and the energy industries of the european union. we are very mindful of that. if you look tonight at the amendments which the socialists will be supporting, we have relatively long timescales for these new regulations to be incorporated into eu law. we must take this step forward, but inevitably we must also allow for the fact that this step needs to be accommodated not just by the environment but economically as well. you have in front of you a report with the amendments, the majority of which the socialist group can support, some of which we feel go too far. however, i would commend the report to the house.
mr president, the biggest event in the football calendar in britain is the fa cup final. at half-time millions of kettles are turned on to make a cup of tea – for those who have not been drinking beer since the start of the match at least. the demand for electricity – a commodity that cannot be stored – peaks. to meet this demand, or at similar times such as particularly cold days in winter, some of our older coal-fired power stations are pressed into service. amendments to the common position threaten the future of some of these stations and the jobs of the miners who supply the coal. it is technically possible to upgrade them, but in many cases it would be cheaper to build new gas plants and retro-fit these stations with exhaust scrubbers. the main plank of our air quality strategy in this area is the national emission ceilings and, as long as they are met, member states should have a degree of flexibility. new gas-fired plants have already contributed to the uk meeting its targets. how a member state meets its obligations is an issue of subsidiarity. some of the proposed amendments will be counterproductive. for example, the inclusion of an end date of 2012 will result in old plants being run harder to use up the time remaining and will increase pollution during those four years. the common position is already a compromise and takes account of first reading amendments by adding in measures on existing plants which were not part of the commission proposal. we should not destabilise the delicate compromise package by seeking to further amend this directive, which already delivers substantial and very real environmental improvements.
commission. – mr president, air pollution remains a real threat to citizens' health and well-being in many parts of europe. our ecosystem continues to suffer from acidification and eutrophification. it is an issue where europe can and must act since air pollution knows no borders and this directive will make an important contribution to reducing atmospheric pollution. let me turn to the key issues under discussion. the question of existing plants has been the major point in the debate on this proposal, both at first reading in the council and now at second reading. after a very difficult discussion in the council, the common position was achieved with unanimity. it now includes significant new and tougher requirements for these plants and this will result in considerably reduced emissions of sulphur dioxide from the large combustion plant sector of the existing member states and ultimately in an enlarged community. while i consider that it is necessary to keep a degree of flexibility in the approach to existing plants, i share parliament's view that a final date should be established, after which the obligations for everyone will be clear. parliament has played a very important role in pointing towards the outcome on existing plants, and i am grateful to mrs oomen-ruijten for her efforts as rapporteur. parliament has proposed a number of amendments to make the emission limit values more stringent, both in the case of existing plants and plants that will be licensed after the new directive comes into force. already the common position will reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide from the lcp sector considerably. therefore i see little justification at this point to further tighten emission limit values for sulphur dioxide for existing plants. however, in the case of nitrogen oxides the effect will be less significant as the standards that apply to existing plants are not very demanding. hence there is some merit in tightening emission limit values for nitrogen oxides. in the case of new plants, economies of scale which reduce the cost of compliance allow for further tightening of emission limit values for both nitrogen oxides and sulphur dioxides. on the question of indigenous fuels, the time has come to remove the divergent treatment of indigenous solid fuels and other fuels and the process of phasing-out should now begin, especially in view of the changing commercial nature of the large combustion sector. in this context, the commission can accept amendments nos 3, 4, 7, 8 in part; 9, 12, 13, second part; 14, 16, 17 for plants over 300 mw; 18 and 19, both for plants between 100 and 300 mw; 21, 28 and 29, both in part; 39 and 40. however, the commission cannot accept amendments nos 6, 13, first part, 15, 24, 25, 26, 30 to 38, 43, 44, 49, 50 and 51. i should like to make a short comment on the other proposed amendments. let me assure you that the commission has considered carefully all the 50 amendments tabled. overall we can accept 23, either fully, in part or in principle. the commission can accept amendments nos 10 and 11, which will simplify the obligations for refineries, and amendment no 23 in principle, subject to ensuring that its implementation is compatible with other legislative requirements on access to this type of information on emissions. the commission can also accept in principle amendment no 1, dealing with economic instruments; amendment no 2, concerning the alignment of the definition of biomass with the recently adopted directive on the incineration of waste, and parts of amendment no 5 requiring further examination of emissions of heavy metals from the lcp sector and emissions from large combustion plants in the maritime sector. however, the commission cannot accept amendments nos 20, 22 and 27 as they would detract from the common position or introduce inconsistencies with recently adopted and related legislation on waste incineration. it is preferable to await the outcome of the review in 2004 before including gas turbines in offshore applications. we have not yet assessed all the technical implications but that will be done in the review in 2004. thus amendments nos 42, 45, 46, 47 and 48 are not acceptable. by way of conclusion, i should like to say that in both readings parliament contributed to improving this legislative proposal. this will have an impact not only in the present european union but ultimately also in an enlarged community.
mr president, at first reading the liberal group gave its support to the commission's proposals. we want to see a significant reduction in air pollution within a period of time that reflects the serious environmental problems we face. the commission argued that the economic benefits would far outweigh the costs involved, but member states dissented and said that they could not go beyond the targets agreed at the gothenburg protocol. parliament was right, then, to back the commission. i am pleased that in negotiation the commission was able to overcome member states' resistance, make some progress and secure more ambitious targets. but at second reading we are in a rather different position. the commission has said that it has made a firm agreement with the council and is sticking to it. it will go no further, it says. it will not support the amendments tabled by the ppe-de or the socialist group. i would like member states to be more ambitious. but at first reading, parliament supported proposals based on a commission model which i find fiendishly complicated. in the absence of the commission's support now, i do not see how we, as legislators, not technical experts, can propose more ambitious targets for individual countries unless we pull figures out of the air, which seems to me a rather poor and amateurish way of making law. so i have accepted that this is as far as we can go for the time being. but i am also aware that this is a poker game and i am a rotten poker player. it may be that member states have cards up their sleeves which they are prepared to offer up if pushed in conciliation. it may be that the commissioner secretly wishes parliament to pursue its original agenda. if that proves to be the case then i have misread the game. i am waiting with interest to hear from the commissioner whether she has been keeping cards close to her chest or whether her public position remains the same.
mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur as well and to ask how far we can trust the council. it is nothing personal. this is one of the very few proposals i can recall which has come with a price tag attached. it is true that it is printed on page 112 of the original proposals. it does not appear on the internet version any longer, but it was there on the version that was originally submitted to parliament. this shows us the actual cost of implementing the proposed directive on national emission ceilings. it was news to the belgian members of my committee that this proposal would cost them eur 1 000 million a year. we showed it to the belgian members and they did not like the look of that at all. can the commissioner state whether the cost of what is being proposed has been discussed in the council and what, for example, the belgians have said about it? what about the french, for whom this measure will cost an additional eur 916 million a year? what about the greeks? according to the commission's estimate, this will cost them an additional eur 338 million a year. so how far are they actually willing to pay the cost? mrs müller has addressed this problem. in her amendments nos 1 and 6 she rejects the word "broadly" and says that the member states must actually agree to remain "exactly" within the emission ceilings. if parliament accepts that, we have an even greater right to ask how far the member states will actually agree to abide by these proposals. when the commissioner comes to reply, could she perhaps say something on amendment no 8? does subsidiarity apply here or not? if it does not apply, then presumably we have to await proposals from the european commission. if so, since the instruments cannot be taxes, which would not be agreed, what will they be?
commission. – mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her work on this important proposal. i know you have a lot to do on the sixth environmental action programme and other things. the proposal for a directive on national emission ceilings aims to tackle acidification, eutrophication and ground level ozone simultaneously. it is therefore highly significant for two of the four priority areas identified in the commission's proposal for a sixth environmental action programme: nature and bio-diversity and health and the environment. there are still important areas of the union where nature and biodiversity suffer from the impact of acid rain eutrophication and citizens are affected by ground level ozone, as has already been commented on by members of parliament. we must solve these problems. amendments nos 10 and 13 seek to reinstate the emission ceilings originally proposed by the commission. in their common position the member states endorse both the long-term goals and the interim objectives of the proposal. they have re-examined the commitments that they made in the gothenburg protocol and have signed up to more action. but they all consider that there are uncertainties and other factors that may change the picture in a few years time: energy plans, accession and so on. this is why member states have agreed to look again at these issues in 2004. the commission can accept this as a first step on the understanding that our aim in 2004 will be to make up the shortfall. i am very concerned that it would be exceedingly difficult to have successful discussions on amendments nos 10 and 13 with the council. there are different requirements for each member state and fifteen points of view in the council. the commission therefore does not accept amendments nos 10 and 13. the commission can, however, accept amendments nos 11 and 12. we will indeed have to look again at the commission's original proposal for emission ceilings in 2004 and decide whether it would be better to share the burden differently in the light of more recent developments. amendments nos 11 and 12 explain this very clearly. in answer to mr de roo’s questions, i want to say that the commission has completed two studies on volatile organic compounds. we are now doing preparatory work and expect to be able to discuss potential proposals with experts actually before the summer. that is perhaps important information. as regards costs, and how far the member states, mrs jackson, are willing to pay the costs? as you know costs were discussed at enormous length in the council. member states believe we can meet the target and they have signed up to what they feel they can do now. they want to look again at the costs in 2004 before signing up to more. of course the costs are higher for some countries than for others because of where the pollution emissions come from. all emissions are not equal because of different weather patterns. that was also noted in the discussions in council. as far as the remaining amendments are concerned, amendments nos 1 and 6 are related to amendment no 10. the council inserted the word "broadly" in recognition of the fact that the emission ceilings of the common position will not go all the way to meeting the goals for 2010 and the commission does not therefore accept these amendments. amendment no 4 would set dates by which the long-term goals of this directive should be met and it is still the commission's view that, with our present knowledge, any date would be mere guesswork and we should not put it in a legal text. the commission must therefore reject amendment no 4. i hope we will have a clearer forecast when we review the directive in 2004, but then – if you will forgive the joke – some emission figures will have to be taken out of the air. the commission agrees wholeheartedly that emissions from international shipping are important and must be tackled effectively. we must also look at the effect of aircraft emissions. the commission can accept fully amendment no 2 and can accept in part and in principle amendment no 3. we would however prefer to quote directive 99/30 more directly. we cannot accept amendment no 5, nor the first part of amendment no 7. emissions from international maritime traffic and cruising aircraft cannot be assigned to individual member states. we must instead follow up action already taken in the international maritime organisation and decide what else is needed. the commission can accept amendment no 8 in part and in principle. bringing forward proposals on economic instruments is something that we will look at as part of our review of the directive in 2004. we can accept in part and in principle the second part of amendment no 7 and amendment no 9. again, the commission cannot accept the requirement to bring forward proposals. all the issues highlighted by parliament should be considered during the review. i thank parliament for its time and look forward to progress on this very important dossier.
rapporteur. – mr president, i report to the house at the end of a long and not wholly satisfactory saga. the european parliament's delegation wanted to see this recommendation on environmental inspection cast in the form of a directive. we were very forceful about that and we tried to persuade the commission to sympathise with us. it did not. we tried to persuade the council of ministers to agree with us and it did not. this is very sad but it is a situation which we have unfortunately had to live with because, if we had not agreed to the texts which we now have in front of us, we probably would not even have had a recommendation. many of my colleagues – i hope all my colleagues – feel that we are dealing with a very unsatisfactory situation. in effect, we are constantly adding to the burden of european union legislation on the environment, with the very good intention of improving our environment, but the member states are signing up to legislation which they are in many cases unable to put in place in the form in which they adopt it. they may in the end be able to reach the standards that they agree to, but we have to ask how long this will take. in some instances the commission is still very much in the dark about whether member states are really complying with legislation because the member states are very slow in telling the commission about the state of implementation in the reports that they are obliged to send to brussels. so, if you want to put it at its most dramatic, the european parliament finds itself complicit in a deceit on the people of europe. we are telling them that we have very forward-looking environmental legislation but in instances such as the nitrates directive and the urban waste water directive we find that in fact member states are taking much longer than required to comply with legislation. indeed the case of the fine that the greek government is still paying to brussels for failing to comply with a waste directive shows that it can be a quarter of a century before a member state is even taken to court for failing to comply with legislation effectively adopted in the 1970s. parliament felt that the way to deal with this was to take what was originally a recommendation on environmental inspections and use it as a way of enforcing common standards throughout the member states by upgrading it to a directive which member states would, we had hoped, want to take more notice of. as i say, the member states were against this. it was rather enlightening to go to the meeting of the conciliation committee where it was quite clear that some member state delegations were not interested in the subject at all, let alone in that particular meeting that we went to that night. this is a situation in which only a minority of member states are really interested in compliance. for most it comes very low down on their list of priorities. so i am afraid we have settled in a sense for second best. we still have hopes that we will be able to return to this issue. indeed we intend doing so because, although we have a recommendation, within it we have a revision clause which will mean that the commission comes back to parliament within the lifetime of this parliament – i think i am right in saying in 2003 – in order that we can try to assess how the member states are performing in relation to this particular recommendation. that would mean that mr davies and i, if we are spared and have managed to survive foot-and-mouth, bse and everything else that seems to be afflicting the united kingdom, will be able to make sure that we move to a directive if we feel that the recommendation is getting us nowhere. we hope that we will have the support of the commission in making that reassessment in 2003 a really serious exercise. i am sure that mrs wallström, who is very keen on getting better compliance, will want to support us in that. we also managed to get into the recommendation the idea that the reports on inspection must be publicly available within two months of their completion and submission to the commission. we want to make sure that more people in europe are interested in the issue of compliance – more people throughout the member states, not simply in a selection of the northern ones. and finally, might i draw attention to the fact that, although we could not formally record this, we have said that we will put a standard clause into directives that will simply say "member states undertake to have in place, by the date of entry into force of the directive, systems of environmental inspection which will enable them fully to comply with the provisions of this directive". we do not see how any member state can possibly oppose that.
mr president, i know of no one who disagrees with the view that environmental legislation should be enforced equally and effectively across the union. this report gave us the opportunity to take some practical action. it seems to me that for more than a year and a half we have had a dialogue of the deaf and the result is that we have achieved nothing worth having. i do not blame the commissioner who inherited this from her predecessor, but the recommendation from the commission was deeply flawed and thoroughly unpopular with member states, who supported it only because it was non-binding and could therefore be ignored. the view of member states, that it was too prescriptive, came to be shared by many members of this parliament. but there was never an opportunity to have a serious discussion between the council and parliament about the best means of achieving what should have been shared objectives. perhaps this was a failing on our part to take some kind of initiative. on the other hand, the radical yet eminently sensible compromise proposal made by mrs jackson and backed by the conciliation committee gained no support either from the presidency or the commission. so maybe no meeting of minds was possible. but the commitment secured from the commission to consider introducing some kind of directive in a couple of years' time, while welcome, given the commissioner's declared support for ensuring that we are enforcing rules and laws effectively, should have been coming any way and adds nothing to previous statements. i regard this entire law-making exercise as a failure. there was simply no proper dialogue between the institutions. i feel we have let down our constituents across the european union. with hindsight, i believe it would have been better for parliament to have let the conciliation process collapse. the liberal group will be voting against adoption of this recommendation tomorrow. i just hope we can all do better next time.
commission. – mr president, i will keep parliament regularly informed on implementation and the rate of compliance. this is one of the most important issues we have to work on in the next few years and that is also why it is given as one of the priorities in the sixth environmental action programme. we have to concentrate on implementation. i will, of course, come back to parliament and if necessary introduce legislation, the so-called guillotine approach. we will put pressure on member states. i think when people come to the conciliation process they put a lot of time, effort and energy into it and they want to agree, so it is worthwhile. it will help if the citizens of europe are kept informed about implementation and we are proposing different ways of doing that. any more ideas on how we might achieve this and keep up the pressure on the member states will be welcome. the difference of opinion was on the legal instrument that would best meet the objectives. i am glad that we have reached an agreement on the form and wording of the instrument by taking on board parliament's amendments. i also support mrs jackson's suggestion that this sentence should be inserted in all the proposals from now on. it is a good reminder for the member states. the amendments will tighten up the requirements in the recommendation. for instance, reports on site visits should be available within two months of the inspection taking place. we now have to ensure that the recommendation is fully implemented. i should like to acknowledge impel's role. its work on minimum criteria for inspections helped in the drafting of the recommendation and they are a very important instrument. impel now has a mandate under the recommendation to review inspectorates, inspection practices and best practices in the training and qualification of inspectors. the recommendation would now require member states to report to the commission on the operation within two years. the commission will then consider whether to put forward a proposal for a comprehensive directive covering the inspection's life cycle. we will definitely come back to this and i hope that together we will be able to improve the implementation of the acquis communautaire on the environment.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to begin by pointing out a technical correction. this is something that should have been picked up in committee but, unfortunately, it was not. it refers in annex iv, 2.2, to gauge pressure of 500 hpa, where in fact it should actually refer to 0.5 hpa. i would be most grateful if that small technical correction could be made. i am sure all manufacturers of car heating systems would also be grateful. there are two further amendments on this. both are very technical and have been suggested to me by the industry. when i looked at them i did not see any problem. i have submitted them to the committee and it has approved them. the very fact that i have stood up here and said that two further amendments have been submitted to me by the manufacturers highlights the dilemma parliament faces with this type of directive. last month, i moved a report on making buses accessible to disabled people. certain people criticised that report because it was far too technical. i had actually taken a lot of the technicalities out of it. however, when we come to this report, i wonder what i am doing, standing here at 10.30 p.m. on a tuesday night, arguing over technicalities. this is not a job for parliament. we should be directing policy in the way it is going, but we should not be discussing technicalities which would have been better addressed elsewhere. i would like to suggest to the commission that some of us get together at some point in the near future to stop this sort of report coming on to the agenda of parliament. it is wasting the commission's time and it is wasting our time. it is high time that we started looking at ways of removing these technical reports – which are not political by any means – from the agenda. they should be discussed within the appropriate forum where engineers, technicians, scientists etc., or whatever technical group, would look at these specifications rather than coming to me. i am not an engineer: i was a milkman in my first trade. i do not know how i am expected to know the difference between 0.5 hpa and 500 hpa. i make a plea to the commission that we address this problem. hopefully we can get a decent night's sleep some time in the future.
mr president, i really can only echo what my friend and colleague, mr miller, has said. he and i alternate from one side to the other as rapporteur and shadow rapporteur of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market on these technical files. i can also reveal to him that not only have i been nominated for this task in the legal affairs committee, but i currently have on my file six other technical regulations – wearing my other hat – for the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. perhaps it is because i was an engineer in my previous life. but seriously, we must consider first of all the whole way in which this work is to be carried out. this is an important directive. we should not underestimate the importance of it. i thank mr miller for the work he has done on basically sorting out the finer details of it although, as he said, it is not really a job we should be doing. commissioner liikanen's services need to make sure that they are sorting out the fine detail. the fine elements of this – the technical detail that the car or component manufacturers are advising us about – really ought to be handled by him before it comes to us. indeed, now that the commission has acceded to the protocols of the economic commission for europe in geneva, which has been where the bulk of motor vehicle legislation in europe is handled, we are faced with another set of issues – most of which are being handled in the industry committee at the moment – where parliament does not have the right of amendment as we have with this sort of directive. that is probably right but there are still the political elements that we need to consider. in fact, mr miller should be receiving an invitation from me, so i am pleased to say that i had already anticipated what he was going to invite me to do tonight. he will be receiving an invitation from me to a meeting next week where i have been asked by the industry committee to convene a group of interested parliamentarians. i know that commissioner liikanen's motor vehicle colleagues will be well represented and are keen to come and exchange views with us, as are the motor industry trade associations and the european and japanese component manufacturers, to have a look at how we handle this growing and important issue and how we relate to it politically. essentially, we are looking for some shape of strategy and for key issues requiring a political input, so that we can then leave the technical side to the commission. there may be then, in the case of ec regulations, simply a right of veto at the end or, if we feel that the work has not been done properly, we will simply not accept it until it comes back in its finally completed form. then we should not have to be dealing with this sort of technical work. hopefully, by the time we come around to another cycle of these procedures, mr miller and i will not be here late on a tuesday evening, talking about the technical details of heaters, tyres or whatever it is, but we will have had a chance to make an overall political input into the scope of motor vehicle regulation. i know that commissioner liikanen is interested in seeing this process streamlined, not only in the fine technical detail, but also by looking at the ways in which the industry itself can be encouraged to develop its own technical regulations within an overall public policy framework and indeed, on crucial issues like safety, to be able to move beyond those and to use its own technical resources to help make better, safer and more environmentally-friendly vehicles for us to use.
commission. – mr president, it has become a habit for mr miller, mr harbour and i to spend the evenings here in parliament and i am happy to see so many parliamentarians wanting to join this debate – mrs mcnally, mr wijkman and mr chichester. i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr miller, for his report. it has been asked why this proposal has been put forward. the answer is that it is a matter of extending the scope of the directive. i really hope that we can find some solutions so that the commission, the council and parliament can concentrate on issues of political importance. outsiders might find it difficult to understand why we spend our time on directives like this. the proposal amending the council directive relating to heating systems for motor vehicles is aimed at extending the scope to include all vehicles and not just cars. the provisions for combustion heaters are introduced to ensure that these devices comply with high safety and environmental standards consistent with current technology. the industry is also supportive as this harmonisation will offer it the benefits of the internal market. i am therefore pleased that the rapporteur largely agrees with the common position. he has proposed two technical amendments regarding the specific requirements of combustion heaters. the commission can accept these amendments as they do not interfere with the current safety requirements in the proposal. the commission will further investigate specific requirements for lpg combustion heaters to be added in annex viii. it will also take into account the implications of the second amendment. this report will pave the way to a speedy adoption of this directive. in conclusion, the commission can accept amendments nos 1 and 2.
mr president, congratulations to the rapporteur, who has achieved a quite remarkable level of consensus right across this house. that consensus is leading to the joint initiative he mentioned, which we shall be announcing tomorrow. this is unusually good working together. thank you, too, to the commissioner, who works within the limits of a very inadequate treaty. there is no energy chapter in the treaty. this is a big gap and we must continue to put pressure on member states if we want a coherent policy. that is what disappoints me about this action plan. it does not seem to be part of a coherent energy policy with short-term, medium-term and long-term strategies. it is a piecemeal approach in which the emphasis varies according to the publication. the case for energy efficiency is clear and unanswerable. it meets all three requisites of an energy policy: environmental impact, security of supply and competitiveness. all are helped by energy efficiency. so if this is so self-evident, the obvious question is why do we need an action plan? why is this not happening automatically? we know what the barriers are to accepting such a common sense solution. ignorance of the facts, particularly at household and small firm level. lack of incentive – energy in the european union is artificially cheap because of the subsidies for the conventional forms of energy, which are often denied but certainly there, and the failure to take on board the external costs. in many member states, there is no requirement to even look at demand site management. commissioner, what has happened to the rational planning directive? please bring it forward again. it has not finished its journey through the legislative process. transport is, of course, a particularly difficult area and action is needed. this action plan of the commission's is unambitious. a 1% per annum improvement would be very easy to achieve. we need at least 2.5%; that is attainable. we want to give serious consideration to the setting up of an energy programme agency with the task of producing the coherent energy strategy i mentioned. we can look at energy appliances. however, i am dubious about voluntary agreements. the sixth framework programme gives us an opportunity to look at research and i hope that tomorrow, commissioner, you will join with us in looking forward to a more intelligent use of energy in the european union.
mr president, energy efficiency is arguably the poor relation in the overall supply situation. we all agree that it is a good thing. but, rather like saint augustine, who prayed to god to make him good but not just yet, we tend to put off doing something about it. i wish to congratulate the rapporteur on his determined effort to put this right, both in his report and the initiative that my colleague has referred to for an energy-intelligent europe – although i confess that i would describe efficiency and conservation more as common sense than intelligence. everywhere one looks in the energy-rich world we inhabit in europe, and the usa in particular, one can see examples of energy extravagance, even profligacy. the challenge lies in persuading members of the public of the need to change their ways. the rapporteur lists many sectors where improvements can be made: by public authorities, industry, business and individual consumers. however, i do not believe it is necessary to have an energy chapter in the treaty, nor to impose punitive taxation in order to impose an improved efficiency. it is better to proceed with a combination of setting higher standards and offering fiscal incentives, coupled with a campaign to persuade people to change. above all, we must change attitudes and encourage people to look at the world in a different way. that is the way forward to achieve energy efficiency.
commission. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr wijkman, and all the members who have spoken today for their contribution to this debate. as we all know, energy efficiency is an issue which has acquired great importance in the formulation of our energy policy. it is in that coherent way - as mrs ayuso said a moment ago - that we must look at it. energy efficiency is one of the elements of a coherent and rational energy policy. but we must say that it is one of the elements which can enable us to meet the kyoto objectives, which can guarantee us that sustainable development over time and which, moreover, can help to strengthen security of supply in the long term. as the commission's green paper on security of supply and the kyoto commitments, presented last december, rightly points out, energy efficiency and energy saving are a contribution to energy policy, since each kilowatt saved equals the need to produce one kilowatt less. i am aware of the difficulty of preparing mr wijkman's report and the effort he has had to make to present a clear and concise document such as the one he is presenting to us today. i would like to say to mr wijkman and to all the honourable members that i fully agree with what is said there. the report's scope and the constructive opinions it contains will help us to promote and consolidate the implementation of the action plan for energy efficiency. i know that some of you may think it is not ambitious to set a target of 1% increase in energy efficiency in a sustained way over the next ten years. you must understand, ladies and gentlemen, the effort it will take over the next ten years to maintain that 1% increase in energy efficiency. of the approximately 18% margin that we have calculated could be obtained from energy efficiency, it would be possible to achieve by the year 2010 two thirds, that is, about 12% improvement in energy efficiency. sustained 1%: it is not 1% a year, but a sustained effort over time. i am glad that mr wijkman concludes his report by saying that we can continue to disconnect economic growth from energy consumption. that is, we can grow more and at the same time be able to contain the growth in energy demand. i fully agree with mr wijkman's demands for improved efficiency in construction. a proposal for a directive on energy efficiency and building standards in the european union has already been distributed to the services, and this will ensure energy efficiency in buildings, especially public buildings. the commission will shortly be able to submit that directive, and i look forward to your contribution. we also intend to put forward a framework directive on electrical equipment in buildings. so far there have only been sectoral regulations or regulations relating to certain types of electrical appliances - mrs mcnally raised these issues too - and what we want to do is to make a global regulation covering all electrical appliances that enter inside buildings of all kinds, for domestic, industrial or commercial use. i would also like to say that the proposals contained in the white paper on transport policy which i hope to present shortly are fully consistent with what we are saying here and with what is mentioned in the green paper. i hope that you will support all these initiatives. the idea put forward by mr wijkman that the commission and the member states should turn major public buildings into symbolic display elements seems to me very appropriate and is something i have already stressed on a number of occasions. i hope that with the directive on the energy performance of buildings we can take a step forward in this direction. i would also like to say that i fully share mr wijkman's view of the importance of the save programme. in order to ensure the future of this programme and to determine its orientation and scope, we will shortly begin the preparation of a proposal for a new decision on the implementation of the programme from 2003 onwards and, of course, the views expressed by mr wijkman and the report under discussion will be taken into account. the question of the european energy programming agency is usually more complex, as you know, but in any case it is not so much the body or the administrative structure that is important for carrying out these activities as the way in which they are carried out. we agree on that. i would like to conclude by pointing out that the requests and comments in mr wijkman's report, with all its contributions, will be taken into account - and some of them very shortly, for example the directive on buildings - and i believe that they are fully consistent with the general energy policy which the commission is proposing, of which you have already had concrete evidence: the directive on electricity from renewable energy sources, communications - such as this one - on energy saving, the green paper, and, shortly, the directive on energy efficiency in construction. in today's case, we are approving something which has nothing to do with energy saving but with the efficiency of the whole system: the liberalisation of the gas and electricity sectors. this is not at all incompatible with the existence of complementary measures which encourage us to save and use energy better. human behavior is essential. as some of the honourable members have said - mr chichester and mr beysen, amongst others - the key is to educate and to make people aware of how we must be absolutely economical in the use of energy, because even if we can afford it, there are costs beyond the price of energy itself which we must never forget. we can't waste it.
madam president, i wish to inform the house that today is the uk's no smoking day. as half a million eu citizens die needlessly each year from smoking yet 80% of smokers want to give up, i hope that colleagues will see fit to sign the tabled written declaration calling for an eu no smoking day. today alone 1500 eu citizens will die from smoking. let us, the european parliament, lead the way in preventing these deaths. (applause)
madam president, i simply wish to ask whether we could once again check that the no smoking rules in this house are being enforced. it has come to my attention that was not the case earlier this week. i would urge renewed vigour in the application of those rules in this house. (applause)
mr president, i shall speak with a voice that has not been much heard in this debate so far, despite the two words in mr barnier's speech about regional parliaments. it must be remembered that europe is not just a europe of central institutions and member states. within the member states there are self-governing countries – called, in the parlance of this house, "regions". many of their citizens regard themselves as citizens of ancient european nations deserving as much recognition in this union as others. mr poettering rightly said that the community method is a good one from the point of view of small states. let it also be a good method for small countries that are not, or not yet, member states of this union in their own right. if, in the debate over the next three years, the voices of the democratically-elected parliaments of the countries and regions of europe within the member states are not heard properly and taken as fully into account as the voices of the member states themselves, the "national" parliaments and – as mrs frassoni rightly said – the ngos, then the debate will have been a failure. subsidiarity is a two-ended concept. at one end it requires that decisions be taken as close to the people affected as is consistent with efficiency and equity. but that implies that many decisions can only be taken at the other end, at the higher level, when, for the sake of equity and efficiency, the whole of a great polity must be included. that great polity will not do well, however, unless it avoids taking power from the little people, the more local levels of government. the "regions" of europe must be properly represented in this discussion and proper attention must be paid to subsidiarity.
mr president, i particularly welcome the efforts of the commission president, romano prodi, to set the contours of this debate, which follows on from our debates in january and february in this house. now, it is not the post-nice debate but the debate on europe's future. it is vital that european institutions get this opportunity right. it is a rare occasion in history where peoples of europe can potentially have their own say on what a so-called constitutional framework would look like post-2004. it is now up to europe's political leadership to set the terms and determine the nature, breadth, substance and intensity of this debate. at present there is some imagination but little action, given the extensive nature of annex iv of the treaty. this morning i looked at the website that the president of the council mentioned. there is no mention of parliament participating in the debates on 7 march. it is simply a web page with no facility for citizens to communicate their own views by e-mail. there is only a skeleton programme which is put on this web page under the belgian presidency, who will have a business forum. it is deeply unimpressive and needs to be looked at immediately. so let us look at the future debate. first, its nature. it needs to be politically led rather than bureaucracies being left to run expensive programmes which will look like propaganda in the view of our citizens. perhaps this would be a subject for stockholm: stimulating heads of state to start debates. madam president-in-office, you have said that this should be something which should be done but in my own country our prime minister, mr blair, has been curiously silent on this subject. secondly, the breadth. this needs to be something which will involve all parts of society, as mr bonde has said. you cannot simply preach to the converted as you did in the european school a few days ago. thirdly, the substance of the debate: that needs to be considered in terms of papers, broad dialogues and other ideas of this kind. lastly there is the intensity of the debate, which needs to be developed with the best technological means available. i conclude by saying that in our parliament we need to network with the national parliaments, the council needs to give us the lead through the heads of state in each of the member states and last, the commission can produce guidelines so that we know what course this debate will follow. we can then discuss this when we come to ratify the nice treaty a little later this year.
mr president, why is it that we insist that the specific legitimacy of the european parliament is recognised in the preparation of the igc? this is not simply because of our wounded self-esteem, but because the member states left to themselves will quickly become obsessed with their own national power relationships. the common european interest will only be fostered if all those who share executive power – the european council and also the commission – collaborate with all those that share legislative power – the european and national parliaments. a true constitutional step forward will be achieved only if such a pluralistic formula is agreed.
mr president, i wanted to identify the website that i had visited this morning just before this debate. i can assure the president-in-office of the council that the name of the representative of the european parliament on 7 march is not mentioned in the english version. i would be grateful therefore if you could align that with the swedish version which is presumably up-to-date as you told us this morning.
mr president, we welcome the lisbon summit's emphasis on dealing with social exclusion. that emphasis recognises what is already clear. despite the gradual increase in economic growth within the union over the years, there are still millions of people who have not benefited. indeed, in some member states, such as my own, which have tended to follow the american model, the gap between rich and poor has been widening. we are also seeing significant numbers of working poor, those who have jobs but cannot afford to live on their wages. there is a still a huge gap between the incomes of men and women, which continues into old age and must be an important issue in the discussion on pensions. growth alone is not the solution to social deprivation and it never has been. distribution and equality of opportunity are also important, hence the need to include social criteria alongside the economic goals and the use of appropriate indicators to look at the combined effect. as we have heard, however, stockholm will not just deal with the lisbon follow-up. it will be a first step towards explaining how the european union is going to deliver on sustainable development. it is obvious to us that unless we factor the environment into our economic thinking there will no chance of having a sustainable economy. we have to find an economic path that does not strip the world of its natural resources and produce toxic or greenhouse emissions. that means we have to look at the quality of the economic growth we seek and not just the amount. if 3% growth depends on depleting fish stocks, increasing car travel or cleaning up after crime, it is not the sort of growth that improves the quality of life or quality of the environment for anyone. it is not sustainable and that is why we have urged the use of appropriate environmental indicators alongside the social and economic ones. we can then adopt a coherent approach to sustainable development and see if we really are achieving the results we want.
- as you clearly stated in your speech, the services of this house were in no way in contact with the media. if there has been a leak, it is at the commission level, and it is certainly something we will be discussing with them. it is unacceptable that the media should receive an answer before the member who put the question has even been asked. (applause) i would like to thank
it's always nice to hear about someone who does a good job.
commission - mr president, on this important report, i would like to say that the commission is able to accept amendments nos 3, 4, 7, 8 in part, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 in part two, 14, 16, 17 in part, 18 in part, 19 in part, 21, 28 and 29 in part. we can accept amendments nos 39 and 40. amendments nos 1, 2, 5 and 23 are acceptable in principle. however, the commission is not in a position to accept amendments nos 6, 13 first part, 15, 20, 22, 24, 25, 26, 27, 30, 31, 32, 33, 35, 36, 37, 38, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50 and 51.
commission - mr president, the commission can accept amendments nos 2, 11 and 12 to this report. we can accept in principle, in part, amendments nos 3, 7, 8 and 9. however, we cannot accept amendments nos 1, 4, 5, 6, 10 and 13.
- actually, i disagree with you, but there's no point in arguing about it. given the vote, the result is the same.
commission - mr president, as my colleague mr liikanen said yesterday, the commission can accept both amendments nos 1 and 2.
- i'm glad to see the scots are getting 100 percent. (the president declared the common position as amended approved)
in writing. -(en) i wholeheartedly support measures to ensure public access to environmental information. the citizens of europe must see that the european union is transparent, democratic and open. the directive aims to adapt existing legislation to reflect developments in it, such as the internet. rapid and widespread access via the internet is essential to give europeans information on air and water quality. in an age where consumers no longer know exactly what they are eating, it is important that they have as much information as possible about the air they breathe and the water they drink. the internet is a revolution that has changed the face of the world. microcomputers are now found in many homes, schools, high schools, and offices. it is high time that as much information as possible is made available to our citizens, and environmental information must be a priority. many meps, including myself, have set up a website to inform their constituents about their work and how the eu's actions affect them. the world of dot com is too important to ignore. information and communication technologies are developing at a rapid pace, and we need to keep abreast of the changes that are taking place and ensure that information continues to be disseminated effectively. access to information is the last thing for our citizens and we, as the european parliament, must act to promote this access and not deny it.
in writing. - i fully support the creation of a european crime prevention network by the last french and the current swedish presidencies. this demonstrates the eu's commitment to fighting crime and protecting our citizens. we must be uncompromising with crime and its causes. no member state can do enough to combat crime on its own. we must work together with our european neighbours to tackle this issue head-on. we need to establish crime prevention contact points and strategies, and support crime prevention activities at local and national level throughout the european union. it is important that we pay particular attention to juvenile, urban and drug-related crime. these measures must be implemented from blackburn to barcelona. only by working together throughout europe can we combat the social scourges that result from crime. so our children will be protected, whether in the north west of england or in the south of france. the british labour government has made crime one of its top priorities and is working to reduce violent crime and public disorder. the conservatives, for their part, offer nothing but rising crime and falling investment. crime is a major concern for our citizens, and we must ensure that it remains our first priority in europe.
in writing. - the eldr group voted against some of the amendments proposed by mrs angelilli and decided to abstain in the final vote because it believes that giving the eu the power to act to fight all forms of crime is a breach of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. it is essential that we act together to combat crossborder crime. indeed, organised crime at international level is one of the major challenges we face. but small-scale local crime and vandalism have no crossborder implications and require no eu action.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the bösch report but not without some reservations because, like many of my colleagues, i have some reservations about a european public prosecutor's office and its powers. however, as its role is limited to criminal acts committed by members and employees of the eu institutions against the interests of the european communities, i considered it useful to support the idea. its location in luxembourg seems appropriate given the proximity of the european court of justice. the extension of the competences of the european public prosecutor's office will have to be closely monitored so that they do not encroach on the competence of the member states.
in writing. - although the conservative party is fighting hard against fraud in the european union, we cannot support this report which, by referring to a european public prosecutor, does not respect, in our view, national sovereignty in criminal justice. we therefore abstained in the final vote to reflect our support for the fight against fraud within the eu while maintaining our position on the european public prosecutor's office.
in writing. - i congratulate my socialist colleague mr bösch on his report, which calls for stronger measures to promote the fight against fraud and which makes the principle of zero tolerance a reality. we have already made a great deal of progress since the report which exposed the commission's mismanagement and fraud and which led to its resignation in 1999, but there is still much to be done. one of the most notorious problems is the trafficking of butter adulterated with animal or vegetable fats, or even chemicals, which represents an estimated loss of €45 million for the eu budget. but there are also the striking irregularities in the field of flax cultivation and the european subsidies granted for flax cultivation in certain member states. i am pleased that many member states have joined the commission in bringing the case before the european court of justice against major american tobacco companies. today, the uk's no tobacco day, it seems appropriate to support this case, which aims to combat large-scale fraud in tobacco products, which deprives the eu and member states' budgets of billions of euros each year. madam president, we must tackle the root causes of fraud and mismanagement. commissioner kinnock, who is leading these reforms at the commission, is leading the way. i am convinced that neil kinnock is the right person to restore public confidence in the eu institutions and their actions. we in the european parliament should support him in his action. whether anyone could be involved in, or allow, any kind of fraud is beyond me. we all, european institutions and member states, have an important role to play in restoring the trust of our citizens in the european union.
- that concludes the explanations of vote. (the sitting was suspended at 1.12 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
- the agenda calls for the continuation of the debate on the council and commission statements on the preparatory work for the stockholm european council of 23 and 24 march. communication by the council of common positions: see minutes.
mr president, president-in-office of the council, president of the commission, in my short remarks i want to address one of the priorities that president prodi outlined this morning. this concerns the right regulatory environment; colleagues will have copies of the text. now it is not surprising that, in the ten pages here, the section on the right regulatory environment is by far the shortest. the commission has not even been able to find one page of good things to say about it! and why, colleagues, is that? because despite all the fine words about having a deregulatory model, about creating jobs, about freeing up business, about – i quote – making the european union the cheapest and the easiest place to do business, in the year since lisbon we have seen a catalogue of failure on almost every front. take my own country, which claims to be in the lead of the new economy. every business organisation and every survey confirms that more and more regulation and red tape has been piled on british business over the last twelve months. when i go and see companies in my constituency they say to me: "mr harbour, we have reached the stage now where politicians are spending more time sending us new regulations about protecting and looking after our existing employees than actually encouraging us to create new jobs". i took notes throughout the speech by the president of the council this morning and the question of deregulation was not mentioned once! but what did she mention? on top of everything that was agreed at lisbon we are going to have a new ecological dimension to this programme and, far from the virtuous circle that mr goebbels was talking about this morning, we have a vicious circle. once we actually created new jobs; we are now looking for new burdens to place on business in the new ecological dimension! i would just like to mention one point to president prodi concerning an important conference on the economy two weeks ago, to which he kindly invited me along with other members. (he might have invited me in december, by the way, when he invited everybody else but i did get my invitation about two weeks beforehand). i was able to go to a short part of it and, across the european economy, businesses from every country were saying if we are going to achieve the e-economy, do not over-regulate it.
mr president, because i only have a minute and a half i will make only one point and that too has to do with social dialogue and the social partners. next week in stockholm, on the eve of the summit, there will also be a summit of the social partners. it will be taking place in the midst of something of a crisis for social dialogue, because the employers seem set to walk away from attempts to negotiate improved employment rights for workers placed by temporary employment agencies. that is a very serious issue. in the framework of stockholm we need to look very seriously at the importance of the social partners in improving flexibility for our enterprises, whilst at the same time safeguarding workers in or moving between those enterprises. that is what we are promised in the adaptability pillar of the employment strategy and what should be delivered by the lisbon process. but unfortunately the reality in my region and elsewhere in the union is that workers placed by temporary employment agencies are placed at a severe disadvantage. they are paying the price of improved flexibility for enterprises. employers have to be made to recognise their responsibilities. if they are determined to walk away from these negotiations, the commission must make it absolutely clear that it will take immediate legislative action and the stockholm summit should make it clear that the council will do everything it can to expedite the legislative instrument to cover workers placed by temporary employment agencies.
mr president, when the uk prime minister went to lisbon he quite arrogantly lectured other european leaders about how they should be running their economies. not content with trying to control us at home, he is trying to do that in europe as well. he came back to the uk saying that europe is going our way and that he had changed the agenda. however, as far as i can see, the only way in which europe is following mr blair's agenda is by piling yet more red tape on business and more regulation, and making europe an ever more expensive place in which to do business. mr blair's government introduced about 3500 regulations last year alone – a record increase. the lessons of lisbon have not been learned in london or brussels, because we still see every day in this house more regulation and more red tape being produced. i challenge both commissioner prodi and mrs lindh to come up with one example of where a burden on business has been removed or repealed since lisbon, one example of an eu measure which makes it easier and not more difficult and more expensive to employ people and one example of a proposal for a regulation which has been dropped as being too expensive or disproportionate to the aims sought. i hope that i will be proved wrong in my assessment of the success rate from lisbon being very low indeed. we still have directives on how to climb ladders. we still have directives on lawnmowers, fluorescent ballast and one on electrical waste which is quite simply going to be a tax on computers. how is that going to promote the e-economy in europe? regulation may feel like cost-free political points to politicians, but someone has to pay the bill. the people who pay the bills are the customers of these companies, who pay them in higher prices and, above all, the people of europe, who are priced out of jobs. i call on the commission and the council to live up to the fine words of lisbon with action: remove red tape and, above all, make it easier, not more difficult or expensive to employ people in europe.
mr president, if we genuinely want a knowledge-based economy there are preconditions: you need a critical mass of numerate and scientifically trained citizenry in the workplace, expenditure of at least 3% of gdp on research and development, research infrastructure and networks of expertise and a rapid system of dissemination and exploitation. these preconditions are generally not met in the eu, despite the lisbon declaration. first, we are very short of engineers and scientists: retraining in science is an essential part of lifelong learning. secondly, only two member states – sweden, luckily, and finland – spend more than 3% of gdp on research and they have the industrial competitiveness which accompanies that expenditure. foresight and dissemination will, of course, be helped by the forthcoming sixth framework programme and even more by the creation of the european research area, with its networking of centres of excellence. without member state commitment at stockholm, the knowledge-based economy simply will not happen. so i say to member states: "over to you at stockholm. if you want it to happen, put your money where your mouth is".
the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking you for a good debate with many important contributions in the run-up to the stockholm summit. let me comment on some of the questions. first of all, i would like to say to suominen that i agree that it is important that we not only speak but also take action. that is why i believe that an annual evaluation and follow-up of the objectives is a new and unique process which will hopefully mean that we really get better at turning words into action. i would like to thank goebbels for the positive image of europe. i agree that it is also important to spread the idea and the image that europe is doing well. i agree that it is important that we combine economic and social measures. that is what this whole debate has been about. some speakers have spoken of the economic, others of the social. what makes it possible for us to actually modernise, and not just liberalise, europe is that we are able to combine economic reforms with social reforms. herman schmid raised the problems of 'right-wing politics' when we talk about economic objectives and economic reforms. i can't understand that! of course, a strong economy is important for well-being. in addition, we have clearly prioritised the fight against unemployment and emphasised the importance of raising employment targets, which i consider to be important issues for the future of europe. i would like to agree with what mr andersson, mr van lancker and mr o'toole said. they stressed that if we are to be competitive, we must also ensure that we invest in education and social issues. lifelong learning is an important issue for europe. our citizens should receive adequate education and thus achieve good skills. we have already discussed the participation of the elderly in the labour market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. andersson highlighted the environmental technology. all this is essential if we are to achieve our competitiveness objectives. harbour complained that i didn't bring up the issue of deregulation. in my speech, however, i said that we must open up the markets for electricity, gas, mail, rail and air transport and that we will have a common market for financial services by 2005 and a common market for venture capital by 2003. if mr harbour does not think that this is important for the economic development of europe, then i do not know what he thinks is important. thomas mann raised the importance of evaluating our goals as well, as i commented in the introduction. i agree with that. then we may not be in complete agreement on the swedish social model, but we will continue to discuss that. hughes raised the important issue of workplaces lacking the basic requirements of labour law, safety and the like. this is the case, for example, for temporary work in connection with recruitment agencies. it is an important issue which we are discussing above all at national level, but which obviously also needs to be discussed for the future. i think that when we talk about the quality of work and the importance of setting social objectives, we may have an opportunity to raise the issue of temporary work at the stockholm summit. i would like to end by thanking you for a good debate. i hope we have a good meeting in stockholm. i am also convinced that you, on behalf of parliament, will continue to ensure that there are also actions and not just words.
president of the commission. - madam president-in-office of the council, a few telegraphic words because it seems to me that the debate has shown a very clear line: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but there was also a general warning, which was from all sides, that is, agreement on the absolute need to speed up the pace. we are going slowly, we have missed opportunities, so what i am asking for, madam president, is that we proceed together in stockholm, with a fast pace and also with a minimum of anger, of tension, because we agree, yes, but too often the commitments made are not put into practice. with this commitment and with the hope of a successful summit, i welcome you and thank you for your speech.
- i have received six motions for resolutions tabled on the basis of rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. see minutes of the sitting. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
- oral questions to the council and the commission (b5-0012/2001 and b5-0013/2001) by mr brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on strengthening the union's capacity in conflict prevention and the civilian aspects of crisis management, including statements on the situation at the border between the federal republic of yugoslavia/kosovo and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
mr president, as has been mentioned, this important debate is taking place against the background of further crises on the border of kosovo and macedonia. first of all, therefore, i have to stress the on-going need for cooperation between nato and the european union. the rapid reaction force, the rapid reaction mechanism, and the civil peace corps must be complementary to nato. indeed that is stressed in paragraph 8 of the general affairs council's comments on international cooperation. as has been mentioned by minister lindh, soldiers today carry out peace-making community activities. the crossover between peace and war activities is now difficult to see. the european union must be complementary to nato. i urge the council of ministers and the commission to comment on that point. tackling the root causes is another problem. society is seriously destabilised by organised crime. can the commission and ministers stress that they will tackle this across borders through interpol and with mechanisms such as scotland yard's paedophile unit? capacity building is another critical point. when we look at pristina we see that the hospital is under great stress. is it not a necessity for the new aidco organisation that the commission has created, which we welcome, to build up the capacity of the medical and educational professions? local professionals maintain civilian society but under stress, however excellent ngos may be, surely local professionals, particularly in education and medicine, are vital. i urge the commission to support those functions. finally, of course, accountability. i truly believe, and i am sure everyone here does too, that the best of all conflict prevention mechanisms is a fully functioning parliament. i urge those present to ensure that this parliament plays its full part, not just in conflict prevention and crisis management, but in ensuring that the rapid reaction force has an ultimate responsibility to this parliament as well as to national parliaments, the council of ministers and the commission.
mr president, my major concern is that the focus of eu action on crisis management is too often – i could say invariably – of a military nature, rather than on the longer-term conflict prevention which my colleagues have spoken about. i am pleased that the president-in-office and commissioner patten understand the need to put in place measures to anticipate violent conflict and to promote what i would call a culture of prevention. troop deployment, as we know, is expensive and very prone to failure. of course, we need to be able to react rapidly, but the eu must improve its ability to use all the economic and political levers at its disposal and use them more effectively to tackle the root causes of tension, which the commissioner mentioned earlier. twenty-four of the world's forty poorest countries are either engaged in some kind of armed conflict or have recently emerged from it. in africa, 20% of the population live in countries affected by armed conflict. therefore i have to ask the commissioner, how it is that the commission's policy planning and early-warning units, provided for in the amsterdam treaty, have 20 members of staff, 11 of whom are engaged in working in balkans whereas only one is assigned to the world's most conflict-prone region, africa. i would be very happy if the commissioner could look into that. are there plans to have a more balanced approach in the early-warning unit? secondly, would the council and commission not agree that we need urgently to develop common strategies for west africa, the horn of africa, the great lakes region and for southern africa? finally, does the commission agree that country strategy papers which have been drawn up under the cotonou agreement must urgently include an impact study of policies on conflict so that we can be assured that we know what might happen in the 77 countries which are part of the cotonou agreement.
the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i shall try very briefly to answer some of the specific questions put to the council. the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. one of the main points when president putin and foreign minister ivanov of russia come to stockholm next week to meet the heads of state or government and foreign ministers in connection with the european council meeting will be the resumption of the discussion on how we can continue to fight, together with the russian government, the organized crime which unfortunately occurs in many places on russian territory and which is the cause of many of the conflicts we see in the border regions of russia. i can therefore assure mr nicholson of winterbourne that we are actively trying to work against organised crime on the council's part. mr lalumière is addressing the question which is very central to all conflict prevention work, namely how we can achieve greater consensus on the union's side on foreign policy issues. such a consensus is essential if we are to be effective in our work on conflict prevention. the council hopes that the common strategies we have drawn up for a number of conflict areas in particular will help to develop such a consensus. the common strategies have not always worked the way the council and others wanted. at its meeting in january this year, the general affairs council adopted conclusions, based on a report by the high representative, mr solana, in which it undertook to try to refine this instrument, to improve it and to make it more concrete. i hope that it will be an effective means of achieving what mr lalumére is striving for - an aspiration which i fully share. i would also like to refer to kinnock's question in this context as to whether more common strategies should be developed for other areas, several of which were mentioned. the general view in the council is that we must start by making the common strategies instrument more effective before we take the step of examining whether it can be extended to further areas of conflict. we are, however, taking note of the proposals and will of course take them into account in our further consideration. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i would like to leave it to commissioner patten to answer the question in more detail. however, let me point out that one of the main reasons why the presidency has given priority to the preparation of a programme of conflict prevention measures is precisely because we see the need to pool our resources within the union in order to become more effective in the field of conflict prevention. in this work we shall review the decisions already taken and the embryo in various fields as regards the organisational structure. i hope that we will be able to draw up a coherent and effective programme which will make the union even better equipped to prevent the conflicts that exist around the world.
commission. – i would like to respond to four questions which were put during the course of the debate. i see that two of those who asked me direct questions have not unfortunately been able to stay in order to hear the response, but i am sure that does not mean that they do not think the questions were important. in any event, i thought the questions were important so i will respond to them and perhaps they will be able to read the answers in the official record. the first question was about the tetovo university and i want to make it clear to the honourable member who raised that question in absentia that i think the university is extremely important. i am very pleased with the commitment of the government of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to the establishment of that university. i am sure that parliament will be pleased, but not surprised, that the commission intends to put eur 5 million of support into that university which has an extremely important role to play in ensuring the development of a successful multi-ethnic community. in relation to the question of extremism, i agree with the honourable member who said that we should not support albanian extremism. we should all denounce it vigorously. in that context, i do not myself believe that it is remotely helpful, indeed exactly the reverse, to talk about constitutional change in the fyrom. we know perfectly well that there is a government in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia which has done an extraordinary job, a very brave job, a very committed job, in moving along the road of economic and political reform. i commend the efforts that the government has made so far. that is why we have agreed to start negotiating a stabilisation and association agreement with that government and that is why we completed those negotiations for an agreement before completing them with anybody else. we should continue to support the government of the fyrom in all its efforts to build a successful pluralist open society in the fyrom. they have done an excellent job so far and we will continue to support them against the extremist threats with which they have to contend. two other questions, first of all the question of country strategy papers and the importance of including ideas of conflict prevention in the country strategy papers. i thought, and certainly meant to make it clear in my earlier remarks, that this was a question that we intended to address in our communication in april on conflict prevention. i can assure the honourable member that we will do that. it is extremely important. it represents the sort of development in the preparation of country strategy papers that we have seen with other aid donors and development partners so i hope we can pursue that. the honourable member suggested, perhaps in view of our past experience a tad ambitiously, that we should launch ourselves on four new common strategies. i think we have some lessons to learn on common strategies as both the high representative and this commissioner have made clear in public and in private. but the honourable member is entirely right to say that we need to look at more coherence in our policies in africa. we have to take account of the fact that there is an unholy and unhealthy relationship between developmental problems in africa and conflict. finally, i would like to address the question raised by mr rocard, who is, in many respects, the godfather of the conflict prevention network. that has been and remains a very valuable contribution to our policy armoury, although i think that we have to do rather more in making use of it. i hope we can in future. we had an extremely good meeting on the cpn last week with a group of parliamentarians. two of his colleagues from the socialist group were able to attend that meeting at which there was a good exchange between my officials and the group of parliamentarians. we have an excellent relationship with the parliamentary advisory group on conflict prevention and will certainly take account of their advice and of the informed advice and wisdom of, as it were, the godfather – i mean that in an entirely benign sense – in our future development of the network and of our policies in this area. i hope that we can return to this subject in april when the commission produces its communication on conflict prevention as a whole.
- i have received eight motions for resolutions tabled on the basis of rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. see minutes of the sitting. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
- i call the oral questions to the commission (b5-0016/2001 and b5-0082/2001) by mrs randzio-plath, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the final report of the committee of wise men on the regulation of european securities markets.
mr president, those of us from the united kingdom extend all our sympathy to the constituents and fellow citizens of georges garot after the so far mercifully isolated outbreak in france. we also acknowledge the worries and concerns about which mr hyland and others have spoken of our neighbours in the republic of ireland. would commissioner byrne confirm that the uk did its utmost to provide advance warning to its neighbours when this outbreak was first identified? could he give any scientific opinion, as yet available to him, about the origins of the outbreak at heddon on the wall? could he tell us if the movement restrictions throughout the european union are now being widely obeyed and what penalties or sanctions are available in the case of rogue traders who are disobeying them? would he agree that the spread of the disease has been predominantly through sheep, and therefore by animal contact, rather than wind-blown, and which offers us some hope that although the disease has not yet peaked, it can be contained? finally, would he say that he agrees that the uk's policy of containment, slaughter and quarantine is still the best way of eliminating this disease, not just in britain but wherever else it may spread in europe?
mr president, the clearest lessons from this foot-and-mouth epidemic are that we need greater vigilance and a new emphasis on animal health, stricter controls on imports from countries where the disease is endemic on swill-feed plants and livestock farms, on animal transport and contingency plans for disasters such as this. our continent's livestock must never again be put in jeopardy by failures in one country's ministry of agriculture. today, however, the task is not to apportion blame but to plan ahead. when the dust has settled we will find a devastated economic landscape in some of the more remote and vulnerable regions of the european union, such as my constituency in south-west england. this is not simply a crisis in farming but a wasteland of failed businesses and job losses in tourism, transport and in other sectors. the union can play an important role in helping to rebuild those economies. i seek the commissioner's assurance that the commission will talk now to the governments of the countries and regions affected about how structural fund and other programmes can be adapted to provide early and effective help.
mr president, a thorough investigation is certainly required into the implications of the foot-and-mouth outbreak. many considerations arise. why were infected animals not quarantined at the outset and emergency vaccinations administered instead of adopting a policy of mass slaughter as we have done? i would like to ask the commission where it stands on the policy of mass slaughter and whether we should differentiate between slaughtering for the welfare of the animal and gratuitous mass slaughter to satisfy the market and media interests. i also call into question once again the transportation of live animals for slaughter over long distances, which increases the risk of the disease spreading. the closure of small abattoirs again needs to be reviewed. transportation of live animals is currently being investigated by the commission and i eagerly await the commission's report on this very important issue and urge the commission once again to change its policy on the transportation of live animals and to introduce stricter controls. consequential loss is not covered when discussing the issue of compensation. does the commission not agree that it is imperative that we look at the whole picture and evaluate the loss to farmers directly and indirectly affected by the foot-and-mouth outbreak as well as the connected industries and tourism? how many more disasters do we have to witness in the agricultural industry before member state governments agree that the reform of the common agricultural policy is urgently needed?
mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for making sure that eu funding is available to the british government to help them in this tragedy. could the commissioner tell me whether the british government has applied for all the eaggf funding available to them? in the past it has not bothered to take this. has it taken advantage of this for this current national tragedy? mrs doyle said that it was a crisis. indeed it is a crisis: 225 cases at present, a quarter of a million animals to be slaughtered! our minister said on television three days ago that it is under control. could the commission tell me whether it is under control? could i also ask what the eu is doing? has the british government approached the eu for some sort of consensus on how we stop this spreading across europe? i noticed when i travelled into europe the other day there were no disinfectant mats, there were no bloodhounds checking whether i had a ham sandwich in my pocket, no questions. i know that when you travel to other countries you are questioned about what you are carrying. has the veterinary advice been coordinated? we seem, as mrs doyle said, to have a huge variation between member states across the european union. is it safe to transport infected carcasses across the united kingdom as we are doing at the moment? finally, has the british government been particularly lax about stopping imports from countries where the disease is endemic? (applause)
in other words – no, but it was a very nicely wrapped-up reply. mr president-in-office, you and i agree on the goals of trying to inform the european public, not just in brussels but everywhere, of what we are doing. i suggest that you should try – or get your staff to try – to sell the idea to television companies. although your prime minister will make a wonderful speech here in the plenary in july, reporting on the presidency, a speech in this chamber is not the same as a comfortable talk to the peoples of europe. if you think of the way that president clinton did it, it is not the same thing. i really do urge you – the publications, the seminars, the debates that you organise in brussels are not the way to reach 300 million people the length and breadth of europe. a nice tv chat by the swedish prime minister would be a very good beginning and it is not good enough just to do it in this chamber.
mr president, the president-in-office mentioned a forthcoming decision about putting some documents of the council in the public domain on the internet. does the council intend to respect fully the decision of the ombudsman whereby, if i understand it correctly, all council documents have to be made available to the public and not just some?
mr president, putting the principles of sustainability into practice is a difficult task and i think the words of the president-in-office of the council are encouraging, but can i ask him to come back to the question i asked? will the documents that will be produced in time for the gothenburg council have clear and specific indicators within them by which the future performance of the presidency and indeed of the european union can be judged, together with a clear and specific timetable for the delivery of certain goals, or are we going to see another set of waffle words which meet the goals of good intentions but cannot actually be measured against practical delivery? we have a swedish environment commissioner: we now have a swedish presidency which has a firm commitment to the environment. we expect great things of you which is why we ask a lot.
mr president, i very much welcome the lamfalussy report and the opportunity to comment on it, but i would like to start by putting on record my personal thanks to mr bolkestein for coming along at this late hour despite the interruption. i know it is appreciated by all my colleagues. we are all aware of the benefits of the single market in financial services but i will re-state them because they are so important: cheaper products for consumers, better returns for savers and easier and cheaper finance for business. sadly, this remains an aspiration rather than a reality. one of the main reasons we are failing to achieve such a single market is poor implementation and inconsistent interpretation. both of these will be helped by mr lamfalussy's proposals, which are sensible and pragmatic. we need further assurances and guarantees on transparency and market consultation and on democratic oversight, but i hope we and the other two european union institutions can find a way to make these proposals work. this is an important political opportunity which should not be wasted and i am glad to hear that the commission is taking a pragmatic view on its right of initiative. as mr bolkestein stated in his introduction, he does not have concerns about the role of the regulators’ committee. we need to see that kind of flexibility from the council as well and if it is true that the council is trying to roll back the european parliament's limited role in the comitology process under present rules, that is unhelpful and regrettable. all three institutions will need to show goodwill and make sacrifices and compromises if this arrangement is to work, but it is a prize well worth fighting for because the single market in securities will yield many benefits for the people we are elected to represent.
mr president, i will begin by endorsing what my colleague mr fava has said. throughout our negotiations on this issue we have had very good cooperation. he has always understood the importance of a strong development perspective since half of all the eu observer missions have been in developing countries. and the european union, as a multinational organisation of fifteen developed democracies, clearly has a duty as well as a significant role to play in all the global efforts to promote democratisation, sustainable development and peaceful progress. i would like to welcome this communication from the commission which provides the necessary clarity on these issues and a real focus on how the european union should proceed and probably do these things better in the future. the main point, as mr fava has said, is that simply holding periodic elections is not enough to guarantee democracy in any circumstances. elections are not just about a snapshot on a day; what is at stake is how we cover the whole electoral process. this is the strong emphasis in the report that we are looking at this evening. it is essential that any verdict given by the european union does not inadvertently legitimise, endorse or give any kind of support to any kind of dubious electoral process. the phrase "free and fair" should be avoided: it is loaded vocabulary which is always ruthlessly targeted by the media in any post-election circumstances. as the european union's representative in cambodia i was very well aware of how difficult that phraseology was. it is also very important for us to emphasise the need to support domestic observer teams. these are the key people in developing countries who understand social, political and cultural issues which we, when we parachute in to observe elections, might not be aware of. on the parliament: we recommend that parliament sets up an election coordinating group able to provide much faster and more efficient responses. i also would like to ask the commission what resources, particularly staffing, will be dedicated to the important task of delivering the aims of this very important communication. finally, the european parliament is a central player in the union's efforts to cover elections. our credibility is at stake here and i welcome the opportunity offered to us by the commission to define a very clear and shared vision of europe's role in the democratic process in countries all over the world.
commission. – as mr fava said in his excellent introductory speech, democratic elections are the essential foundations for sustainable development, as well as of course for sustainable democracy and pluralism. the union supports and intends to continue supporting election processes in countries in transition towards established democracy as a key element in our external relations policy. the commission communication on electoral assistance and observation was a response to a request from parliament and the speeches this evening have indicated that we responded in the right sort of way with the right observations and arguments. the communication was designed to boost our performance in this whole area. the case-by-case approach previously followed was, it is generally agreed, no longer acceptable. wheels were too often reinvented and roles too often confused. in the commission we want to see all three institutions fully engaged in the union's support for democratisation, so i very much welcome this report. it is a useful complement to the communication which highlights the european parliament's unique added value as the european union's own democratically elected body. i would like in particular to comment on a few issues raised by the report. first, a few remarks on coordination and information among the european union institutions, which i consider to be absolutely essential. i would certainly welcome the adoption of appropriate arrangements among the european institutions to reinforce our coordination and to better define our roles and responsibilities, including the establishment of a parliament election coordination group. our coordination should begin with a definition of european union priorities, based on an exchange of views on an election calendar which the commission now produces. we cannot and should not observe or support every election. human and financial resources are limited and many countries have no need for outside support. so prioritisation is essential and parliament should contribute to this. a regular discussion, perhaps every six months as suggested by the report, would be very welcome. before we decide on how and whether to observe a particular election, exploratory needs assessment missions are now the rule. we will share their findings with other institutions in order to involve parliament at an early stage, as the report suggests that we should. such missions will determine the nature of our observation. as stressed in the report and the communication, elections are not one-day events. observation of the different stages of the electoral process – registration, nomination, polling, counting and appeals – are crucial. the commission is not interested in election tourism. normally the advanced part of the european union election mission will start at least five or six weeks before the polling day. the core mission must be experienced and have appropriate technical expertise. the involvement of members of this house in electoral observation missions plainly makes considerable sense. as the commission notes, meps, as elected representatives, have a profound knowledge of all aspects of electoral issues. the commission wants to cooperate fully with the parliament in this respect and to integrate any parliamentary delegation, if it so wishes, into the european union election observation mission. it would also be involved in the training, briefing, de-briefing and deployment of observers. when participating in missions observers are, of course, bound by the european union code of conduct for electoral observation and the general principle that the european union must speak with one voice. so the chief observer must be the only spokesman for the eu election observation mission. mrs kinnock asked how we intended to pursue this work in the commission. we are currently finalising a restructuring of tasks between the europe aid cooperation office, the directorate-general for development and my own external relations dg. the idea is to establish, for each election in which we are involved, an election team comprising all the services concerned. once the restructuring is finalised we intend to inform parliament of the exact sharing of tasks and, of course, we are prepared to provide a list of staff as mrs kinnock has asked. i believe that the recent experiences where members of this parliament, for example mr schori and mr cushnahan, have been appointed chief observer have been extremely successful and should be repeated. the visibility of european union action is important. the best visibility is obtained by running an effective and professional operation. however, the chief observer should, i would hope, be reasonably media-savvy and politically experienced. sustainability is important too. support for democracy, as parliament rightly points out, is a long-term process. the commission believes that the recommendations of our missions must be built into development strategies and also into our political dialogue with the country concerned. for example, the president of sri lanka will be visiting president prodi and myself later this week. we will urge her to implement the recommendations made by successive observation missions, including the one led by mr cushnahan, above all for the establishment of a truly independent elections commissioner. the aim should be to promote changes and build capacity so that international observation becomes unnecessary. on coordination with other organisations and the building up of domestic capacities, i would like to stress that the european union has worked with many international organisations and ngos on election assistance and observation and we intend to use the same approach in the future. parliament's report deals with a hugely important subject. the european union stands above all for democracy and the values enshrined in the rule of law, pluralism and civil liberties. we all know that democracy and democratisation, on which our development policy is largely based, are about more than just elections. but properly held and freely conducted elections are a necessary if not sufficient condition for democracy. so it must be right for this european union, increasingly and rightly seen as one of the bastions of democracy in the world, to devote much greater effort to promoting free and fair elections in countries where the rights which we are too often inclined to take for granted are still fragile or under threat. i would like to congratulate mr fava once again on his report which offers sensible and valuable advice as to how we can raise our game in this whole area. we look forward to working very closely with parliament in carrying this work forward and once again i want to commend those members of the parliament who have already played such a distinguished role in trying to ensure that democratisation is a reality in countries all over the world.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. – mr president, i very much welcome this balanced and thoughtful report. it is a report which is very well worth reading. my first visit to ukraine was back in 1991, soon after independence, to attend a health conference. more recently my visits have largely centred on nuclear issues. last week i met a group of ten members of the rada who were in brussels to learn of our institutional relationships. in all the contacts that i have made over the years i have been struck by the desire for closer links with the european union. ukraine has not found the transition to a market economy an easy process. they have yet to bring their regulatory and financial structures closer to our own. privatisation goes ahead slowly. but we should look upon these efforts in positive terms and with understanding. it is almost impossible to talk about ukraine without reference to nuclear power. i believe i am the only member of this parliament who has visited chernobyl, khmelnitsky and rivne, the three stations which have featured frequently in our debates. the latter are the two sites where reactors are now being completed to western safety standards. but we should recognise that ukraine also has a coal industry and is pushing ahead to promote energy efficiency and renewable sources. our financial support should encompass the whole sector. concerning the report of the european investment bank, i would include support for tourism and agriculture. the latter has plummeted in recent years and both can do much to drive the economy forward. i hope that this report will be strongly supported tomorrow and that the members of the rada will see in its adoption an emphatic endorsement of their wish for ever-closer relations with the european union.
mr president, in parliament earlier today there was some discussion about the future shape and direction of the european union post-nice. there is much about these plans and ambitions to which some of us might object, but one of the strengths of the european union at its simplest is its role as a pole of attraction for countries that have not had the benefits of democracy, the rule of law and economic prosperity. the prospect of european union affiliation or membership is a great incentive for countries that have lived under communism for many generations to put their political and economic house in order and to resolve long-standing problems with neighbouring states. in the course of this present decade poland, hungary, slovakia and romania will become european union member states. they border ukraine, a country of enormous geopolitical significance, whose very existence is a major factor in the security and stability of europe, but where recent developments are cause for concern. it is in all our interests that ukraine should be helped in its consolidation as an independent, democratic country anchored in the west but with an open, vibrant and friendly relationship with russia to its east. in this regard we should not forget that, in addition to its association with the european union, ukraine also has a strong partnership with nato, which has contributed to the sense of security of ukraine, as well as much-needed military reform. mr väyrynen should be congratulated on an excellent report, even if it is somewhat longer than he had originally intended. it is so important now for the european union to improve the focus and implementation of its strategy. let me touch very briefly on one very specific aspect: the issue of anti-personnel landmines. ukraine signed the ottawa convention on the prohibition of the use and stockpiling of anti-personnel mines in 1999. it has yet to ratify its accession. meanwhile, it has the fifth largest stockpile of apl in the world, with an estimated 10 million weapons. the ottawa convention places an obligation to destroy stocks of apl. we should expect ukraine to take action. i hope the commission and council will place emphasis on this aspect in their dealings with ukraine.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. – mr president, i would like to congratulate and indeed thank massimo carraro very much for an excellent report. it gets to the heart of the matter. it is very well analysed and i would also like to thank him on behalf of colleagues on my committee for being very open to us. we worked very closely together and i hope he feels that our committee added value to his own efforts. i wanted to focus on a number of key issues from the point of view of the legal affairs committee. this whole issue of governance of what is becoming a crucial international resource is something that is of particular importance. we are at a very important transitional stage where the european union needs to play a crucial balancing role in moving the system of internet governance from one that has been traditionally dominated by interests in the united states to becoming a truly global organisation. the united states government has played an important and benign role because the initial internet developers and technologists came from a united states background. this report quite rightly draws attention to the very crucial role that the european union has to play in achieving this transition. the other important issue is the role of public authorities. clearly there is an important role for public authorities but it must not become overbearing. international governance of the internet owes its success so far to the fact that it is not based on complex international treaties. it has been the responsibility of a series of groups of experts. it is very much governed by the individuals and users who are operating the system. we should leave it that way but of course monitor it and make sure it works for the benefit of all the citizens that use it. alongside that, the other crucial issue for the legal affairs committee is the question of domain name registrations. this whole area is evolving very rapidly and with the development of the internet, simple commodities like names, text, strings and characters have become very valuable. there needs to be a body of governance which is based on competition law, to make sure that allocation is carried out in a free way and ensure that world international copyright laws protect the legitimate rights of citizens who own those names to overcome the problem which has been picturesquely described as cyber-squatting. in conclusion, i would say that this is a very important report in an area which will become increasingly important to all of us. those of us that use the internet everyday take the basic plumbing behind it for granted. but we should not do that. we have to take a real interest in a commodity – a utility – that is going to be increasingly vital to all of us.
mr president, in congratulating mr martínez martínez on his report i reiterate that our major achievement in the last twelve months has been to support the signing of the cotonou agreement, a huge restatement of europe's commitment to development against a backcloth of globalisation and liberalisation elsewhere in international relations. our task now is to act as the watchdog to ensure that those mutual commitments on trade and aid are fully realised. on trade, it remains a concern that the european commission failed to get common agreement with our acp partners in the run-up to the seattle wto meeting. the commission failed to consult, through the joint eu-acp trade committee laid down in cotonou, in recent discussions on "everything but arms", whilst the long-running problems over the banana regime remain unresolved. trade access is the key to development for our acp partners, just as it is the acid test for europe's genuine commitment to put development first. on aid, it appears that the good principles for civil society participation have not yet been realised during the first programming exercise under cotonou. the lack of mechanisms for civil society negotiations in some acp countries poses real problems. the commission, through its quality support group, we in the joint assembly, and not least the beneficiary governments should all uphold our responsibilities in this respect. this is not just an issue of support for non-governmental organisations; it is also about our support for the whole principle of good governance. on this question, there is much in the resolution to commend in relation to promoting the role of directly-elected parliamentarians within the joint assembly. but just as we often debate in this chamber problems of abuse of human rights and of conflict, let us also give positive recognition to continuing moves towards peace and democracy in many african countries. this includes, for example, recent welcome moves to national dialogue by joseph kabila in the congo, the democratic alternation of power in cape verde, the tentative maintenance of the peace agreement between ethiopia and eritrea and, as we saw for ourselves in the joint assembly last year, the entrenchment of democracy in post-abacha nigeria. finally, on a lighter note, much of this may seem to be remote to europe's citizens whose support is essential to our partnership with africa. so it is with great pleasure that i tell you that in my own country – the uk – this friday, a biannual awareness and fund-raising extravaganza for africa, called comic relief, will see otherwise serious citizens don red plastic noses to raise cash and a laugh in solidarity with africa. i, myself, will be serving quaint british cherry bakewell tarts to users at the suffolk learning and resource centre in bungay and will then go on to sell handshakes at 10p each to schoolchildren at the highwood infant school in king's lynn, norfolk. and yes, i will be donning a red plastic nose in common with everyone else. not only should the european parliament congratulate everyone involved, we should underline that through such creative public exercises our electors show us that they back the political commitment to development, embraced in our partnership with africa, the caribbean and the pacific and marked by tonight's debate.
mr president, i hope the lack of attendance at this debate tonight is due to the late hour and not to the way in which i have chaired the two assemblies we are talking about over the last year. i sincerely thank the rapporteur, not just for his report and the way he has presented it tonight, but for the very hard work he does both in the acp and in the development committee. i have prepared this report twice. i know how hard it is to find fresh ideas and yet he has come forward not only with fresh ideas but with extremely good points that we have now tried to incorporate in our rules for the future. the past year has been a watershed for the acp/eu partnership. there was a lot of resistance about going to abuja, in nigeria last year. but i felt that it was vitally important that we were seen to support this fledgling democracy. that turned out to be one of the best assemblies we have ever had. as mr howitt has just said, it was very much a look back at the past and a debate about future partnership agreements. but the real benefit of visiting these developing countries is not just the assembly, it is speaking to people involved in development work there and speaking to those who are helped because we in europe give that development aid. at the assembly in brussels we took the first steps towards realigning the assembly to fit the cotonou agreement. as co-president i am determined we will have a workshop and not a talking-shop from now on. we have built many of mr martínez martínez's ideas into the new rules. we are now a parliamentary assembly. we can involve civil society – this is desperately important. i want to see standing committees that do real work rather than the workshops that we have. i want to see a real north-south partnership leading to poverty eradication and i want to see the assembly take a leading role in conflict prevention and conflict resolution.
commission. – mr president, let me take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for his excellent and innovative report and to congratulate the joint parliamentary assembly for its hard work in the year 2000. i am pleased to confirm that i will be attending the meeting of the assembly in gabon next week. this evening i will be driving back to brussels and flying out tomorrow morning to learn about our host country and do some political work there. i look forward to a frank and open exchange of views with the joint parliamentary assembly and i agree with the rapporteur that this exchange of views should be more than just rhetoric. i also think that the efforts of the joint parliamentary assembly in these last few years have been aimed at that. 2000 was a significant year in many ways, not least because with the signing of the cotonou agreement in june we entered an exciting new phase of partnership with the acp states, one that will last for the next twenty years. it is therefore fitting that the joint parliamentary assembly should begin to reflect on how it will adapt to the changes introduced by the next agreement, particularly in promoting increased dialogue with our development partners on such topics as peace-keeping and good governance. we are raising the level of ambition in the new cotonou agreement and everybody is looking at this with great excitement. the rapporteur suggests that in this new context the joint parliamentary assembly is now ready to take its place as a true parliamentary authority and welcomes the changes introduced by the cotonou agreement to strengthen the assembly. the commission clearly supports the assembly's wish to take on a more politically ambitious role. this is very much in line with what we would like the cotonou agreement to contribute generally in north-south relations and giving that a parliamentary accent is also very desirable. i fully agree with the rapporteur on the role that political dialogue can play in the acp regions and countries, which can often be characterised by a climate of instability. it is therefore important to take advantage of the possibilities for peaceful and constructive exchanges of views as part of a process of dialogue within acp regions and countries involving government and civil society. the report also contains many other useful suggestions that can only make the assembly's work more interesting and efficient and the commission awaits with anticipation the implementation of these changes. this is a meaningful and necessary meeting-place between north and south in the world. as europeans we can be proud that we are able to play this role. i am looking forward to the cooperation within this framework.
- the next item is the report (a5-0072/2001) by lord inglewood, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on direct life assurance (com (2000) 398 - c5-0351/2000 - 2000/0162 (cod)).
deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, on behalf of lord inglewood i should like to say that he is extremely sorry not to be here, but he is unavoidably detained in the uk for family and business reasons. this report, which i am pleased to present on his behalf and on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market is an important part of the legal affairs committee's remit on behalf of parliament to encourage simplification and good-quality drafting of community legislative instruments. in this particular case, quite a lot of important work has been done by the commission in incorporating and simplifying three texts related to life insurance. the source text dates as far back as 1979 and, apart from the codification process of incorporating amendments that have been made over that period into the legislative text, the reason for this more substantive report is that the commission has found it necessary to propose a number of amendments to reflect changes that have taken place in the market since that time and to improve the overall quality and integrity of the text. i do not need to detain the house with a lot of the technical details relating to those texts. those of you that are experts on the subject will clearly want to refer to the commission's own text and the commission has provided an extremely helpful and clear explanatory statement for those of us who are not, unlike lord inglewood, distinguished lawyers – which is why he has been able to make such a good job of scrutinising this text on behalf of parliament. in view of the work that has been done, our job here is just to ensure that there are no political issues arising out of what is largely a set of technical amendments. lord inglewood has taken soundings of the industry. he has looked particularly at the texts of the six amendments, to make sure that they do not introduce any principles outside the directives' original political remit and he is satisfied in this case. therefore, so far as his report is concerned, he is pleased to recommend adoption of the commission proposal to the house without any further amendments. by way of general conclusion, we in the legal affairs committee regard the quality of drafting and simplification of legislation as an important remit. it is worthwhile reminding colleagues throughout the house who are working on legal texts that this is a principle that we all need to bear in mind when we are amending legislative texts of any kind. when we see and look at work in other committees it is not entirely clear that colleagues bear simplification in mind. in many cases we see far too many complicated texts coming out of work done by this house. it is an important principle – maybe this is an uncontroversial issue but the principle of the quality and clarity of legislative instruments is important. i commend this report as a good example of that process.
- on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to welcome to the official gallery the nordic council's committee on european affairs, chaired by its vice-chairman, mr øysten djupedal. we are very pleased to welcome among us these members representing the five nordic countries: denmark, finland, iceland, norway and sweden. we hope that your visit to the european parliament will be both pleasant and fruitful and we hope to see you again soon. (applause from the left)
commission. – the proposal for a directive recasting the three generations of life insurance directives is a response to pressure from parliament, council, industry and consumers, in fact anyone who has to deal day-to-day with the complexities of the community insurance legislation. your objective is to facilitate the comprehension and application of the insurance directives by setting them out in a legal text that is clear, coherent and complete. mr karas has just asked for texts to be as clear and transparent as possible and that was the commission's aim in the text which is in front of you. in addition to the codification of the provisions, some minor amendments which do not affect the substance of the texts were considered to be necessary. the exercise has gone beyond a pure codification and that is why this is a ‘recast’ version. a purely recodified text would have included a considerable number of repetitions, inconsistencies and obsolete provisions. i intend shortly to present to the commission and, if the commission agrees, to parliament, a parallel proposal for a recast – again recast – version of the non-life insurance directives. clearly the community's insurance legislation is not going to be stopped because of the codification exercise. new proposals are being discussed which, once they have been adopted, will require new amendments to the recast directives. we cannot stop the legislation tree growing but we can prune and train it so that it does not become an overgrown tangle as it has been in the past. i am extremely grateful to parliament's committee on legal affairs and the internal market and particularly to the rapporteur, lord inglewood, here represented by mr harbour, for their efficient handling of this matter. mr harbour also just said that this is a good model for other legislation and i entirely agree with him. it is an example of efficiency which parliament may well want to adopt in other instances as well. they have appreciated the fact that, although the proposal exceeds the limits of pure codification, it does not really contain any legislative change. it therefore calls for more expeditious consideration than a normal legislative proposal and that is what has happened. they have recommended to members of parliament that you should approve this proposal without any amendment and i invite parliament to follow the recommendation of the rapporteur and approve the proposal without amendments. the commission hopes a directive will soon be adopted, if possible with only one reading by this parliament. that would be a very good example of a fast-track procedure.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 12 noon today.
- the next item is the oral questions to the commission: - b5-0015/2001 by mr de roo and others, on behalf of the green group; - b5-0020/2001 by mrs grossetête and mr moreira da silvara, on behalf of the group of the european people's party; - b5-0153/2001 by mr olsson, on behalf of the eldr group; - b5-0154/2001 by mrs gonzález álvarez, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on water management in europe.
commission. – mr president, i just wish to clarify a couple of points. the spanish national water plan is a general policy document to be followed by a large number of detailed projects. the national water plan is not comparable with a river basin plan under the water framework directive. such river basin plans require as their basis a thorough analysis of the environmental impact and economic aspects – a task to be completed under the water framework directive by the end of 2004. at the same time, a strict deterioration clause applies; impacts and measures that cause deterioration of a water body are prohibited, unless the member state invokes one of the limited derogation clauses, which in turn are subject to meeting a range of conditions, including the environmental impact and economic analysis mentioned. only on the basis of those facts will the commission be able to fully assess whether the operational measures under the spanish national water plan comply with the water framework directive and other directives, such as the bird protection or habitats directives.
- this debate is over.
- the next item is the report (a5-0080/2001) by mr purvis, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the future of the biotechnology sector (2000/2100 (ini)).
rapporteur. – mr president, we live in exciting times. in our own lifetimes there have been massive and amazing advances in science and technology. new industries have appeared, become commonplace, and have provided a better quality of life, higher standards of living, new and better jobs and better working conditions. for europe to keep its position in the economic forefront globally and to provide the standards we have come to expect, it has been essential for us to grasp these new technologies. biotechnology is yet another of these industries. we ignore or side-step it at our peril. like all new technologies, there are bound to be concerns: environmental, ethical and safety concerns. they must be fully and very openly discussed and studied with the public; they must be monitored and safeguarded by effective regulation. issues such as privacy and confidentiality in an era of genetic predictions require further study and perhaps specific legislation. we signal this need in the report and take no predetermined position. this is for later, after proper debate. i would suggest that amendments nos 9 and 27 are premature in that they seek to close off such consideration and decision. it is incumbent on us to encourage our scientists, entrepreneurs and business managers to take full advantage of the potential of biotechnology and bring this potential to the people of europe and to the world, especially the less well-provided developing world. biotechnology – the life and plant sciences which it encompasses – offers major advances in medicines and health care, to prevent and cure diseases and disabilities which for so long have blighted the lives of so many men, women and children in our constituencies and world-wide. biotechnology offers major advances in the production of food in europe to the advantage of farmers and consumers alike and benefits those parts of the world which struggle against drought and saline soils and fast-increasing populations. it offers crops that eliminate vitamin a deficiency and blindness for millions. it will use fewer pesticides and herbicides and therefore improve the environment and natural habitats. with valuable opinions from the committee on agriculture and rural and development and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, for which i sincerely thank their draftsmen, the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy has considered all the implications and decisively calls for us in parliament, the commission, the council and the member state governments to give this industry the support and commitment which it deserves and so badly needs. following several years of reticence and indecision, we are well behind our main competitors in the usa. american r&d expenditure on biotechnology is three-and-a-half times that of europe, employment is over three times and biotech revenues four times. it is not only the usa: brazil, canada, china, india, israel, japan, thailand, singapore are all embracing biotechnology and actively promoting their indigenous industries. there is no time to lose if europe is to take its proper place. we have the scientists, the research establishments and the scientific capability. we have the basis of a successful industry, with entrepreneurs, investors and business managers. but, for too long, these have been discouraged by negative and sceptical attitudes in government and political circles, public opinion and the media, by unsympathetic fiscal regimes, by a risk-averse culture and cumbersome legal structures. the lisbon council promised to make europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. now we look to the stockholm council to fulfil that promise on biotechnology, which is precisely one of the most important means for reaching that much-quoted target. we look to the commission to rouse itself, to shed its reticence and give a resolute lead with a bio-europe action plan. we look to the member states to get on with the job of implementing the outstanding directives and providing the positive environment for their biotech industries to develop and prosper. our scientists and entrepreneurs are watching intently. what happens here today, in stockholm this month, in brussels and the member states in the next few months, will decide whether they emigrate elsewhere or seek their futures here in europe. i ask my colleagues in parliament to give this report their full support. i ask the commission to respond to it with vigour, determination and singleness of purpose.
mr president, this report should be welcomed for its well-rounded approach. it highlights in a factual and non-alarmist manner the enormous potential of the european biotechnology industry for assisting economic growth, for encouraging job creation and improving the competitiveness of our industries. but it is not all about growth. as we live longer we also need to ensure that we live better and the infirmities of older people have to be addressed. diseases like alzheimer's, parkinson's, diabetes, heart disease and even cancer have yet to be fully challenged by the biotechnologists. it is not only a question of living better, we have to be fitter so that older people can continue by their work to contribute to the wealth of society. long life and a healthy life have to be earned. i am convinced that in plant, animal and human biology lie the biggest challenges of the 21st century. i very strongly support that section of the report which calls for more concrete proposals for action from the commission and council. we need the commission to report on the present state of the industry and the comparisons between member states and to give us better data for future action. the development of a plan for a bio-europe – paralleling the e-europe – for activities of the commission and member states to make the union a competitor for the biotechnology industry is a worthy aim. the council should also commit to biotechnology as a key new technology and the stockholm summit would be a useful time for them to do this. the region that i represent has the lowest gdp per head of any region in the united kingdom. it is not a comfortable position and one of the key developments in the regional economic planning is to support a company to stimulate growth in biotechnology industries. we call it bio-science-north. the aim is to draw on research in university departments, to establish incubator companies and stimulate growth in those that are already established. we believe that this is one of the most important instruments that we have been able to put in place in the last two or three years, with of course support from the european regional development fund. i know that our region is not alone in that but i believe that this is something that all regions in the community should be examining. the final point i would like to make is that we must reinforce the environmental possibilities of biotechnology. it should be recognised that it gives us tremendous opportunities for tackling pollution and reducing resource depletion and gives us opportunities in the food sector to improve the output from our agricultural industries. i hope that the biotechnology industry will get a tremendous boost from the adoption of this report.
mr president, may i congratulate mr purvis on his report on the future of the biotechnology industry. as mr purvis makes clear, it is a vital industry for the future of the european union. it will provide jobs and opportunities for innovation with new products and new processes in such fields as agriculture, medicine and pharmaceuticals. in the fifth framework programme we are already putting eur 2 billion into the biotechnology industry and i hope that in the sixth framework programme that will increase. but despite all that we are behind the united states, which dominates the biotechnology market in terms of revenue, r and d expenditure and even number of employees. it is between three and four times bigger than the industry in the european union. if we are going to benefit from the biotechnology industry, we need to nurture the industry. we need to invest through the sixth framework programme and other r and d funds. balanced regulation is important. it is clear there has been a public loss of confidence in science and technology, scientists and engineers. the bse and foot-and-mouth crises indicate a lack of confidence. it is also clear that there is an ethical dimension. we need public accountability and clear guidelines that command public support. in terms of research and genetic manipulation, many of us would support somatic cell repair but might have doubts about somatic cell enhancement or germ cell repair and certainly there will be grave concerns about germ-cell enhancement. it is not acceptable for insurance companies to refuse cover on the basis of genetic profiling or for manufacturing companies to recruit those with a low propensity to cancer for dirty jobs. we need to strike a balance between introducing regulations that will allow the biotechnology industry to thrive in the future and maintaining public confidence. otherwise public concerns may well drive economic activity across the atlantic.
in writing. - i very much welcome the statements by the council and the commission on the plans to be discussed at the stockholm summit on 23 and 24 march. stockholm will build on the foundations laid down at last year's lisbon summit, where plans were drawn up for a dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy. i have said it before and i will say it again: the issue here is to create jobs, more jobs and more jobs. lisbon has set long-term goals for the next decade: to create the world's first knowledge-based economy by 2010, to create 20 million new jobs across europe by 2010, to promote economic and social reform combining competitiveness and social cohesion, to invest in human resources and to raise skill levels. this means, more simply, increasing the skills and mobility of the european workforce, encouraging enterprise, helping small companies and improving community regulation. this also means stimulating the research and development effort in the community and ensuring lifelong learning. this summit is incredibly important for our citizens, and we need to explain what stockholm means to them. first and foremost, employment is our top priority. we intend to set up a high-level economically-driven task force to study skills issues and an employment database to address the skills gap. we need to make full use of europe's older workers, strengthen gender equality in the labour market and encourage women to become entrepreneurs. supporting smes is essential if the eu is to achieve its employment targets, as small and medium-sized enterprises provide two thirds of all private sector jobs in europe and account for 98% of all businesses in the uk. it is vital for small companies and job creation to have the right regulatory framework, which also means reducing paperwork. we also need to speed up economic reforms, and in this agenda, full liberalisation of the energy sector by 2003 is a priority. it will not only lower prices in europe but also encourage energy suppliers to be more efficient. madam president, this is just a small sample of what we want to achieve in stockholm. i very much hope that we can achieve these objectives so that our citizens can enjoy a dynamic and competitive economy.
in writing. - the uk conservatives are in favour of the eu using certain civilian instruments to prevent or calm crises in third countries. these instruments include humanitarian and development assistance, mine action, election observation, financial and practical assistance to strengthen the judiciary, the rule of law and the administration, and targeted economic sanctions where necessary. the eu institutions should focus on improving their effectiveness in deploying these instruments. however, we are strongly opposed to any idea of developing a 'european police force' as we believe that the european contribution to military rapid reaction forces should be through nato and that the 'operational capability' related to both aspects is a matter for nations only and not the eu.
mr president, combating aids is not just a matter of the price of the drugs. you need funding for infrastructure, to test the patient, to diagnose and to monitor his progress. then you have the access to medication. of course price is important. the pharmaceutical companies have brought their prices down. but what is important, even if it is usd 10 for medication, do we have the will to fund the procurement? we are getting too emotional about this. let us be sure that we have a strategy for funding the purchase. governments in these poor countries do not have the funds, even if it is only usd 10 for treating a patient. the good news is that the prices have come down and they can come down even further if we get the pharmaceutical companies on our side. the bad news is that we need the funding to be organised. i hope, as rapporteur, to devise a package that is deliverable and will benefit the poorest who are suffering, without being emotive, without recommending a solution that requires billions in funds, which i know will not be forthcoming. (applause)
mr president, commissioner, the sad point that i have to make at the outset is that the statues have now been destroyed and so we have been overtaken by events. nevertheless, as a funereal action and as a warning to the world, our resolution holds considerable resonance. certainly the suppression of women's rights in afghanistan continues apace. i come from a different cultural and religious tradition to those who created the bamiyan buddha statues in the 2nd century, but i feel that all of us share a common ownership of our heritage and the right to free movement, education and employment regardless of gender. coming particularly to the statues, this destruction was much more than just a mindless act of violence by a regime that apparently intends to catapult us back into the middle ages. all of us, whatever our creed, nationality, or political viewpoint, lost an irreplaceable piece of the common heritage that binds us together on this earth. a founding principle of the european union is that religious and cultural tolerance is integral to a democratic and civilised society. this debate therefore not only registers our disgust with the taliban, it is also a reminder that there are forces we need to guard against. the taliban may see the destruction of the buddhas simply as the shattering of stones. but we in europe know better. we know that the burning of books meant much more than the burning of books. it signified something else entirely. in commending my resolution to the house, i hope therefore that we in the union will continue to work with all the governments and other agencies which sought to prevent this action and that together we can prevent any further catastrophes of this kind.
mr president, as initiator of this resolution, this morning i met members of the zimbabwean opposition – the movement for democratic change. they told me that zimbabwe is going through hell. europe's efforts at quiet diplomacy just have negative results. mugabe presides over a state that day in and day out subjects innocent zimbabweans to untold misery, murder, brutality and intimidation. they pleaded for the same standards of democracy, the rule of law and human rights to be applied in africa, as would be expected in europe. they told me that they do not want some second-class status in these matters. they would like to see mugabe arrested as soon as he sets foot in a european state. instead, it seems there is one standard in europe for handling right-wing dictators and another for socialist tyrants and terrorists, such as mugabe. instead of handcuffs he gets champagne in brussels and paris. in our strong resolution, thoroughly approved by the mdc representatives we have seen today, we condemn mugabe and his regime and call for suspension of eu assistance directed through zimbabwe government channels, identification of mugabe's extensive overseas assets, invocation of the cotonou article 96 procedures and insistence that the zimbabwean government respect its own laws. our message is clear. i commend the resolution unamended to the house. (applause)
mr president, two zimbabwean politicians are listening to our debate today. they have been tortured in the past and their colleagues have been killed. at lunch they told me very calmly: ‘we are here but when we go back we are going to be arrested and killed. we have passed our sell-by date: we were supposed to have been killed two weeks ago.’ we are sitting here, wringing our hands, writing resolutions, talking about human rights but, at the same time, we seem to have double standards. if black people kill other black people, we avert our eyes and let them get on with it. it is all right for a right-wing dictator like pinochet to be arrested for human rights violations in chile. why do we treat people with a different skin colour in a different way? we are supposed to have one standard for all. we are supposed to be not only a global economy but a one-world family. but is that the way we react? no! we need to do something about it. (applause)
mr president, this is one of the few times i have actually spoken on a topical or urgent matter in this house. i am motivated to do so because the shock waves and repercussions of what is happening in zimbabwe have reached even my constituency in the in yorkshire in the north of england in a number of ways in the last couple of weeks. it started with a visit from a young zimbabwean with our local asylum seekers' organisation. he was an active member of the mdc. he and his fiancée had fled in fear of their lives, first to south africa and, finding that not safe, they had come to the uk, but unfortunately his fiancée is likely to be returned. we do not know to what, but we can suspect. then last week in ripon in yorkshire, i was asked to share a platform with a member of the zimbabwean parliament, a shadow minister. quietly spoken, he told of his aspirations for his country, a country of great potential but where, as we have heard, democracy and human rights are now denied and the rule of the law flouted. he told how he had been beaten, how he feared daily for his wife and his family and, just as we have also heard, he feared what would happen to him when he returns on 17 march. when people are fleeing for their lives across the world and when democratically elected politicians are in fear of their lives, europe needs to make a response that this is not acceptable. i believe our resolution is clear and i hope it gets the support it deserves. (applause)
mr president, 240 million people live in an archipelago that would stretch from london to baghdad. indonesia is massive in geography and population. it is the world's largest muslim country. it is a mega-player in its region and has enormous potential. were it to disintegrate, the implications for its neighbours would be catastrophic. i was there two weeks ago. it is a young democracy emerging from the oppressive years of suharto. habibi gave it press freedom, which is surviving, wahid came in as symbol of the drive against fraud and corruption and there are still high hopes of his policy of devolution. he is under pressure from parliament and street demonstrators and those ambitious to replace him. one of the benefits of dictatorship, of course, is often that the lid is kept on social, religious and racial tensions. sadly the end of dictatorship so often opens the box and releases these ills. timor, moluccas, aceh, papua and now borneo-kalimantan all show this. the situation in parts of kalimantan is intolerable and i back this motion totally. but what indonesia most needs is our support for their efforts to find and fund solutions and any criticism from us must be constructive.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, if i may begin on a personal note it is now nearly two years since i was campaigning on an election platform that stressed the need for proper statutes for members and their assistants. it is extremely embarrassing to have to admit to the public at home just how slow progress has been where both statutes are concerned. of the two, i am more embarrassed in respect of the assistants' statute because this is a case where as meps we are directly responsible in matters affecting the lives of others. my group is grateful to the commission for its approach to professor vandersanden and for the proposals that he has made. we have not yet discussed in detail his substantive suggestions as to what should be done within the parliament's own rules of procedure. we may therefore find ourselves disagreeing with these suggestions in various respects. we do however believe that his methodology which distinguishes between what might be achieved under these rules and what actually requires legislation are a promising route forward. we are very glad to hear of the outcome of the trialogue and the commission's statement today promising proposals for the revision of regulation no 1408/71. we would add however that whatever scheme is ultimately adopted, and by whatever means, it must have certain characteristics. first, it must be simple. it must be simple both in terms of clarity and in terms of its administration. second, it must provide the legal certainty. this means that it must be comprehensive in its coverage of the employment relationship. this need not mean rigidity and uniformity. it means only that, for example, all assistants must be properly covered for any accidents occurring to them in the course of their work. third, it must be transparent. in my own personal view we should be trying to move towards a system where there is equal pay for work of equal value. given though that assistants may be employed in a number of different locations and have different tasks to perform, this may be difficult to achieve. we should at least however seek to ensure that no one is allowed to fall below a certain minimum and that the reasons for any differentials are clear. i believe that in the long term there can be no substitute for a proper statute but we do at least now have an initial path to follow. i hope that we move down it as rapidly as we can.
mr president, i am sure that you would agree that one of the functions of any politician is to lead by example. this morning i had occasion to use the tram system in strasbourg for the first time. i was very impressed by the system, which i suppose it is not surprising, since the trams were actually built in the united kingdom. but it does seem somewhat ironic to me that we have been voting in this place all week to save the planet but we still ride around strasbourg in our chauffeur-driven mercedes. could parliament perhaps consider giving members detailed instructions on how to use the tram system and the routes that are available, and maybe even give us a couple of complimentary tickets to get us started. it is an excellent system and, incidentally, we could save the taxpayers some money by using it.
madam president, i welcome and support both the reports we are discussing today. they are excellent and i congratulate both the rapporteurs on the hard work that they have done on them. it is vitally important to get the investment services directive right because the rewards will be an increased return for savers and cheaper products for consumers. but the isd, i am afraid, symbolises much of what is both good and bad about current eu legislation. it is a good idea in theory but it has not yet delivered in practice. it has produced a single market on paper, but not yet a single market in reality. it was supposed to have made it possible for a firm or a company complying with its own home rules to have a passport to trade anywhere across the european union. it has not delivered that in practice because of differences in interpretation between member states, because of differences in enforcement between member states and because of poor implementation. it is really unacceptable that almost eight years after adoption there are still some member states trying to work out how they are going to enforce this directive. the result has undermined both the country-of-origin principle and the principle of the single passport, because operators still face multiple, overlapping and sometimes conflicting sets of rules when they trade across the european union – just the problem which the isd was supposed to tackle. this is really a textbook case of where the single market legislation has not actually delivered. we have an increased administrative and bureaucratic burden, which still leaves different firms facing over 15 different legal systems and rule systems. the conduct-of-business rules have been used by member states to impose their own host-state rules where they are neither necessary nor desirable and i would include the uk in that. these conduct-of-business and advertising rules have been used to protect markets rather than consumers and the commission should clamp down strongly on that. i very much welcome the call in the two reports to move to a country-of-origin principle for conduct-of-business rules, for advertising rules, for retail investors and for wholesale investors. i hope the commission will take note of what parliament has said because where the commission can be criticised in its upgrade is that it is too tentative on these vital issues. we should have a country-of-origin approach underlying this directive. i do not see why we cannot trust consumers to pick a product from other members of the european union and to be protected by the financial services authorities of those other members of the european union. consumers are receiving proper and appropriate protection from different countries which have been in this very close relationship now for almost 50 years. it is vital to ensure that we are consistent with the e-commerce directive, and a country-of-origin approach will be consistent with the e-commerce directive if we adopt it in the isd. any exception to the country-of-origin approach, whether in the isd or in the e-commerce directive, should be strictly interpreted, narrowly interpreted and should be eliminated as soon as possible. minor updates to the isd are, of course, welcome but above all we need a change of culture. the commission has been far too tentative in enforcement. it is unacceptable that for many years many countries simply failed to distinguish properly between professional and consumer investors as is required by the isd. i would like to see the commission make full use of its enforcement powers to make sure the current version of the isd is enforced properly by every single member state and indeed that the next version of the isd is also properly enforced.
mr president, the commission's proposal for a ban on the testing of cosmetics on animals – but only within the european union – is totally inadequate. i agree entirely with the rapporteur. it will allow us to pretend that we are doing something to prevent animal cruelty, but while maintaining the same testing requirements not one fewer animal would suffer. by contrast, the rapporteur and the committee, in calling for a sales and marketing ban, are maintaining the previous signal and the moral guidance about the relationship between humans and animals: that we do not accept that cruelty should be practised on animals for no better purpose than to develop products which are essentially frivolous and designed to flatter our vanity. the committee has addressed some spurious issues put up by the industry, such as that of the possible health benefits from new products, which they said could be reclassified as pharmaceuticals. our emphasis is on saying that the industry should spend a little less on marketing and a lot more on developing alternative testing methods. despite the vociferous objections of the industry, with 8 000 products already on the market, with the shop shelves heaving with deodorants and shampoos, make-up and hair gels etc., it hardly seems likely that a great many people are going to lose out if a marketing ban is introduced. at the heart of this debate lies the problem of the world trade organisation. the truth is we do not know whether possible objections can be sustained. if they can, then change is needed. whether it be this issue or the environment or the application of the precautionary principle, we must have the democratic freedom to be able to insist on some minimum standards acceptable to the majority of our citizens. it is totally unacceptable that those who seek to bring about improvements in animal welfare should be told by the commission to put up the white flag and run away from the battlefield even before we know whether the enemy is armed. that would not indicate wise judgment, but abject cowardice demonstrating a total want of real leadership.
mr president, mrs roth-behrendt put it concisely. the seventh amendment is a backwards step – we all know that. it is not even the status quo. but to look at some of the protestations of the cosmetics industry you would think that this directive is something new. it is not. it has been with us for many years, and for many years we hoped and believed that an effective test ban, conditional on a phased introduction of alternative testing, was on the way. there is a phrase in the bible that colleagues will know: ‘hope long deferred maketh the heart sick’. if we are heartsick today it is because of the nature of that deferral. those who deferred our hopes should listen now. many in the industry not only accept the need to end animal testing, but have also put their own resources to that end. i have certainly benefited from discussions with them. it is true also that, to follow mr nisticò, some of the experiments that can be put in place involve human volunteers, human and animal tissues, and in vitro testing. the development of these over the last few years has been a major step forward. but now the industry has to demonstrate that it has a realistic timetable for developing alternative tests. it is simply not good enough to say, as this glossy publication does, that you cannot set these timetables because that would be the equivalent of announcing the date for a cure for cancer. that is not the case at all. we are looking here at the way in which they might in this decade get to the point we and the public desire, and they will only do it with the looming incentive of a marketing ban. equally, if we detail the allergens present in these fragrances, they are not being driven out of the market. it is a necessary precaution which should not threaten a single valid product. we have done it elsewhere, at great gain to human health. all the more reason to do it for products which, as i fully accept, contribute to human happiness and wellbeing. we shall all be happier still when we can use them with a clear conscience, knowing that unnecessary animal testing has gone for good.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very good report. there was also a very good debate in committee. the issue of animal testing has been of concern to this parliament for a long time and is also reflected in the level of lobbying by constituents who want to keep the ban on marketing cosmetics. it is time for us to ensure that action is taken; that the concerns of our citizens and those who care about animal welfare are properly addressed by a complete ban on sales of cosmetics tested on animals and a testing ban. as other members have said, there have been enough postponements: from 1998 to 2000, and then to 2002. we have to set a date and keep to it. there can be no justification for making animals suffer in tests when there are proven, effective and safe alternative testing methods and 8 000 cosmetic ingredients already in use. and we are talking about cosmetics, not medical products; we are talking about shampoos and anti-wrinkle creams, and as mr davies said earlier, there is certainly no shortage of those in the shops already. consumers must have the right to choose whether the products they buy have been animal-tested and to be warned if those products contain allergens, so the issue of labelling is essential. we would have liked, as a group, to have seen the report further strengthened by the adoption of a ban on the use of allergenic fragrances, particularly in baby products. so i would urge members to support the report, which is in line with the demands of the majority of the people we represent throughout europe. it would not endanger consumer safety and it would certainly force the cosmetics industry to speed up development of the alternatives which we know are available and which can be developed by alternative testing methods in future.
mr president, i speak in support of the roth-behrendt report and congratulate the rapporteur on the quality and thoroughness of her report. i note with approval too that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy have adopted all but one of the amendments of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. colleagues, without doubt, there is major and well-grounded public abhorrence about the use of animals for testing ingredients in cosmetics, and all concerned want better protection for animals worldwide. this has been reflected in the consistent line this parliament has taken in the past. the cosmetics industry is about marketing glamour, dreams and illusions and i am not as critical as some previous speakers about this. without doubt much of the responsible sector of the cosmetics industry has taken considerable strides in moving towards fewer tests on animals, but public opinion is well-grounded and it is good that it has been reflected, not just in the past, but strongly reiterated and strengthened in the roth-behrendt report. we cannot know about the wto. there has been no challenge yet and the arguments in my view ring a bit hollow from the united states of america about the possible neglect of our international obligations in the same week as president bush has so publicly repudiated the kyoto agreement on climate change. nevertheless, it may well be that the international cosmetics industry draws back from a wto challenge if they know that the full glare of public scrutiny is focused on testing ingredients on animals. it is right that we hold the line. this report is well worked out in its detail. if it does lead to a challenge under the wto rules then we from the european union will have to argue our corner vigorously. if we listen to those arguments, we would do almost nothing in this parliament. it is not that we are insensitive to those arguments, but that we place them in a context of what is the stronger and the greater good. i commend the roth-behrendt report to you.
mr president, the key and emotive issue regarding this debate and this directive is how to protect the health of children and adults while ensuring the phasing out of animal testing within a reasonable timescale. as we know, cosmetics, like chemicals, pesticides and medicines, have to go through rigorous tests before they can be placed on the market for human use. a cosmetic manufacturer is legally obliged to ensure that its products are safe, both for normal use and for foreseeable misuse. the scientific committee on cosmetics sets guidelines on the sort of tests that should be carried out and these include animal tests. the key is to get the test and any alternatives to existing tests into annex 5 of the dangerous substances directive. when we seek, as we do, an end to animal tests, we have to take account of human interests too. it would be horrendous if a child were to suffer or even die because an inadequately tested product was allowed on the market; and we have to remember that items such as toothpaste and medicated shampoos are classified as cosmetics. the industry, to be fair, has made giant strides in reducing both the number of animal tests and the number of animals used in such tests. in some cases they have replaced the test; in some they have refined it to reduce suffering; and in some they have reduced the number of animals used. to achieve an alternative takes up to ten years. agreeing a research project, funding it, undertaking it and then having it validated by ecvam, endorsed by the scientific committee and incorporated into annex 5 requires that sort of timescale. looking at the commission's proposal, we have to ask: is it effective, and is it realistic? i fear the answer to both questions is no. the commission's proposal would ban animal testing within the eu, but that would simply send such testing to non-eu countries where standards of animal welfare may be much lower. the rapporteur has wrestled, as only dagmar roth-behrendt can, to find an alternative; and if her alternative is to ban the marketing of any products that have been tested on animals, then that is fine; but on its own that could bring an end to research and improvements, including improvements to the health of children and adults, if no alternative is available. doing nothing is not an alternative either because that would bring no pressure to bear on anyone to seek alternatives. we have to keep the pressure on. of the twelve tests required for cosmetics, three have alternatives now, a fourth is in the pipeline, four more have been refined or reduced, four have no alternatives even on the horizon. we must set realistic marketing and test end dates for each. we must require alternatives to be used as soon as they are validated. we must distinguish between makeup and cosmetics that have a medicinal purpose. we must stop manufacturers and retailers claiming their products are not tested on animals when one or more of the ingredients have been so tested. and i fear we must ask the commission to take its proposal away and start again.
mr president, we are surrounded by chemicals in our everyday lives. even natural products like the leather of these desks or wood are treated with chemicals; and of course we put chemicals in our bodies, both as food additives and as residues from pesticides; and we use cosmetics, some of us more than others, which come into intimate contact with our bodies. pvc has received a lot of attention and despite the fact that it has been around for over 40 years with no apparent health risks, the spectre of the risk of pvc has been raised. i wonder if it is maybe being unnecessarily demonised, to provide an enemy that the greens can use in their campaigns. parliament has already discussed the problems of phthalates, the substance used to soften plastics, in the context of children's toys. the problem we faced there was determining how much of the chemical gets into people's bodies. no migration testing is available to test how much of these chemicals enters people's bodies. of course that will also be relevant in the application of pvc to medical goods. although i am sure i would not like a blood bag used for a transfusion i am getting, or a piece of pipe that has been put in my body, to contain poisons, similarly, i would not want a product which did not perform as well to be used in that application. other pvcs are treated with stabilisers to prevent them being broken down by heat and light. in particular, window frames have been mentioned. cadmium, which is being phased out, and lead have also been mentioned in this context. lead is toxic when ingested as a compound, but no one would suggest that it is risky to be in a room which has pvc windows, this is an inert substance. it is when we get to the end of the life of the pvc that we have a problem, as ms mckenna said. we must certainly try to recycle more pvc. pvc windows have a long life – in fact, none have been recycled yet because they have reached the end of their useful life, but only because buildings have been demolished or because fashion has changed. we are looking at a 60-year life cycle. if we ban the use of lead in new windows, we will not be able to recycle the old windows when they come into the waste stream. technology is available to ensure that windows made of old lead-containing pvc are overlaid with new pvc so people do not come into contact with it. before we ban something we should look at the whole picture. what are the real risks, in particular the risk of absorption when we use these products; and what are the risks of alternative products? my house has wooden windows and we have to paint those every three years, so there are risks even with wood, and of course some companies marketing alternative products will play up the risks. lastly, we should be very careful how we use the precautionary principle because that can be dangerous: used correctly, it is a good thing but if it is used to justify actions for which there is no scientific basis, in politically motivated campaigns, it is a very dangerous principle.
mr president, i welcome this report as a very important first step in what is going to be a very important debate. the rapporteur has worked very hard to bring us together on this issue and i would commend the work he has done to the house. he really has tried very hard to get us to the situation where this house will give a great deal of support to his ideas tomorrow. we all know that there is widespread concern about pvc within our society. we have, however, to bear in mind that it is a cheap plastic made from salt and natural gas. where there have been problems they have been where it has been pressed into service for uses for where it is not best suited, e.g. packaging or children's toys. where it is best used, where its natural properties are best used and need not be modified, e.g. in construction products and in specialist products like blood bags, it is an extremely useful, very important plastic and very difficult to replace. we do, however, have a problem in terms of its disposal where harm to the environment can be caused by inappropriate disposal and we need to take sensible action with regard to that. much of the sacconi report i entirely endorse. i support the phase out of dangerous and unnecessary additives. i believe the voluntary recycling commitments must be reinforced and turned into legally binding agreements. but i believe that the proper route for disposal is incineration in a high temperature incinerator. suggestions that it should go into a landfill are a serious mistake and a very bad error and i am very glad that ms mckenna, speaking on behalf of the green group earlier tonight, agreed with me about that. this is the beginning of a very long debate before we reach the stage of legislation. it must be a wide-ranging and broad-based debate. it must reach conclusions that are satisfactory to the public, because of the concerns they have expressed, but also to the industrial needs of society. i welcome mr sacconi's report as the first step in the right direction.
the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection for its report and in particular the rapporteur, mr saccon, for his excellent and balanced contribution to this matter. the main objective of the green paper was to launch a broad public debate at european level in a comprehensive and multidisciplinary way. the aim of the consultation was to involve all stakeholders in the decision-making process at an early stage to ensure transparency in the preparation of the case. in october 2000, my colleague margot wahlström and i organised a public consultation with representatives of all stakeholders. the green paper also called for written submissions on the questions raised. and the response was overwhelming. we have received over thirty thousand e-mails, faxes and letters. the majority of the responses came from workers in the pvc industry and from companies in the sector, but many responses also came from ngos and their supporters. in addition, the commission has received official comments from most member states. the draft opinion to be submitted to the european parliament covers all the relevant issues and is an important guide for the commission in preparing the communication setting out the commission's strategy on pvc. the commission will focus its assessment mainly on the use of certain pvc additives, lead, cadmium and phthalates, and on the treatment of pvc waste, in line with the commitment it made in its proposal for a directive on end-of-life vehicles. these are two environmental issues that require action and the committee's report is clear on them. the commission notes the view in the report that the use of pvc should be considered in a holistic manner, with an equal assessment of the life cycle of products made of both pvc and alternative materials. the commission welcomes the committee's proposal that the future strategy should use a combination of both legislative and voluntary means. the proposal to draw up pvc legislation that would only come into force if operators were unable to achieve the objectives set by means of voluntary agreements is also of interest. the commission is currently preparing a communication on voluntary agreements which will provide more details on this safeguard mechanism and other methods. i would also like to emphasize that the commission's work is based on sustainable development in all three dimensions: social, economic and environmental. the european parliament is closely kept informed of developments and the commission will present in the coming months a green paper and a communication, based on the opinions received during the consultation procedure, setting out a community strategy on environmental issues related to pvc. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market.
- oral question (b5-0165/2001) by mrs randzio-plath, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, to the commission, pursuant to rule 42 of the rules of procedure, on community initiatives on the future of pension schemes, including pension funds in europe.
commission. – mr president, mrs randzio-plath has, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, raised questions on a particularly important issue, namely the community initiatives on the future of pension systems. i agree with mrs randzio-plath on her first question. the proposal for a pension fund directive is a first important step in the direction of cross-border membership of pension funds. it must be supplemented by further initiatives. as the explanatory memorandum to the proposed directive sets out, for cross-border membership it should be possible for companies and employees to obtain tax relief on contributions paid to funds in other member states. this aspect will be the subject of a separate initiative by the commission. the second question is what the commission will do to make cross-border membership of pension funds a reality. first of all, it is a priority for the pension fund directive to be adopted by council and parliament. however as a corollary to the pension fund directive, the commission will adopt a communication on the elimination of tax obstacles to the cross-border provision of occupational pensions. the adoption of the communication is now scheduled for two weeks' time. it is necessary to secure the elimination of discriminatory treatment against pension institutions established in other member states. many member states give better treatment, in terms of tax deduction for contributions and taxation of benefits, to schemes operated by institutions established within their own territory. that poses a major obstacle to the cross-border movement of workers, and european businesses as well. it effectively closes off the pension markets of many member states. furthermore, mrs randzio-plath asks whether the commission thinks that it should be tabling legally binding initiatives and, if not, how the commission could still ensure that cross-border membership would become a reality. as i said, the commission is in the process of adopting a communication. this communication will make clear that the most urgent obstacles to labour mobility and cross-border pension provisions can be overcome without secondary legislation, by enforcing the treaty rules which are already in place. i hope that you will appreciate that until the communication has been adopted by the commission i hesitate to go into detail of its content. i shall be very happy to discuss those with you and how the communication should and could be implemented after its adoption by the commission. i can, however, assure you that i see the elimination of tax obstacles to labour mobility and cross-border pension provisions as an absolute priority.
mr president, my group's attitude towards the commission's attempts in this area is rather different from that of the previous speaker. indeed, if we were to criticise the commission, we would criticise it rather from the other side; we would hope that the commission would take a rather more robustly liberal attitude, for example in the proposals which it has made for a directive on occupational pension funds, to remove the possibility of certain member states deciding to continue to implement quantitative restrictions for which there is absolutely no evidence whatsoever of any superior performance. the commission should generally adopt the guiding principle that it should at least be capable of putting forward some evidence in favour of its proposals, rather than merely going for something which appears to be no better than the average practice in those member states where the prudent person principle is adopted. we also take a different view in urging the commission and our colleagues in parliament to try to make progress in taxation coordination. while that is a very desirable aim, we should not allow the best to become the enemy of the good. if we can make progress in improving the returns for pensioners in private schemes across the european union, we should do so. there is, as i have already said, absolutely no evidence that there is any reduction in safety or security as a result, and to establish an entirely spurious linkage, whereby we wait until we have a perfect scheme for taxation before we attempt to make some progress in the area of opening up and liberalising asset management seems to me to be very unfortunate. we also welcome the commission's new stress on coordination rather than on legislation. we know that it is perfectly possible for the commission to make many proposals, as it has done in the past, without making very much progress. this is a new approach and i hope that it will be more successful than the approach of some of the commissioner's predecessors in this area.
commission. – mr president, may i begin by extending a heartfelt thanks to all speakers and to mrs randzio-plath and the committee on economic and monetary affairs for the fact that this debate is taking place this evening. it certainly indicates the importance which parliament attaches to the matter of pension funds and also to the issue of problems in the area of taxation. may i further note that we have almost unanimous agreement – i say “almost unanimous agreement” – on the fact that it is of utmost importance to deal with the tax problems in the area of cross-border pension provision. a fully functioning single market in this area is crucial for the free movement of workers, and it will increase the union's competitiveness. for this we need of course swift adoption of the proposed pension fund directive, but that will not be enough. we should also be dealing with the tax problems, as i said just now. that is an absolute priority for the commission and it is precisely why i have proposed to the commission the adoption of a pension communication. today has not been the best time to engage in detailed discussions for the reasons which have been mentioned. the pension communication has not yet been adopted by the commission. mr kuckelkorn criticised the commission for being so tardy; he mentioned the delays. may i say that the commission is running into important manpower problems. the financial services action plan is a considerable task consisting of 42 measures. the lamfalussy report deals with ways in which that can be speeded up, but we are now running into manpower problems. it is not the first time that i say this here tonight, but it is one of the reasons why we have not been as quick as we had wanted to. tonight is perhaps too early for a detailed discussion of that communication. i am looking forward to presenting it to you and hearing your detailed comments once that communication has been adopted. mr karas said that the directive or the communication could have included more aspects. he mentioned social aspects and so on. as mr huhne said – i know the saying better in french than in english – le mieux est l'ennemi du bien. he gave the english translation of that saying. let me say to mr karas: if we had to deal with all those aspects then mr kuckelkorn would be even angrier with the commission because the delay would have been that much longer. mr karas says that this is ein schritt, it is just one step in the right direction and of course he is right, as i said in my opening remarks. it is one step in what the commission thinks is the right direction; other steps will follow and must follow in view of the demographic time bomb which is due to go off in ten years or so. that is why it is a good thing that the stockholm european council conclusions made mention of the fact that member states now have the right to look into each others' affairs as far as pension funds are concerned because, thanks to the mechanisms of economic and monetary union, what happens with pension obligations is of importance to member states, since all must avoid having deficits which are larger than 3%, or deficits which do not obey the dublin rules that they should tend towards zero or even be in surplus. that is a very good part of the european council conclusions to which i should like to draw the attention of this parliament. mr kuckelkorn said, "would you please stand up to the council of ministers?" the commission does little else but stand up to the council of ministers but only, of course where this is necessary. we do not stand up to anyone for the sake of it but only when we think that the commission is right and the council of ministers, or the majority thereof, is wrong. certainly the commission would not be hesitant in such cases. mrs randzio-plath drew attention to the matter of whether there should be a directive or communication, as did other members of parliament. tabling a directive on the matter of taxation would not solve anything since member states would not be able to agree to it unanimously. we are here in the area – i am talking about the fiscal aspects of pension funds – we are here in the area of unanimity. does this parliament really think, does mrs randzio-plath really think, that we can get unanimity in the council on important fiscal aspects of pension funds? the chances of getting a unanimous vote in council on an ambitious directive on the fiscal aspects are similar to the prospects of a snowball in hell. the council may give unanimous approval to a much smaller and insignificant directive but that is not what parliament or the commission wants. the commission is ambitious, wants to have a proposal with meat in it and that means that it is driven to issuing a communication and not a directive. the area of unanimity is such that we must find appropriate instruments for a proposal that contains any meat at all. if we merely wanted a qualified majority vote in council then a directive would have very limited scope and would only cover posted workers. lastly, i have not yet addressed mr huhne. may i express the gratitude of the commission for his support. he would have liked the commission to be somewhat more robust. the commission seeks a maximum of robustness but it must take into account what opinions are prevalent in the council. the directive that the commission has put forward deals with the security for the contributors, prudential requirements, as mr huhne knows; it deals with the freedom of pension funds to invest where they would like and in which currency; it deals with the european passport for the pension fund industry. these are significant issues and as mr huhne knows full well, the sums involved are considerable. in conclusion, the commission now finds itself caught in a crossfire between mr kuckelkorn and mr huhne and therefore perhaps the golden mean is the right place for the commission to be.
- i don't think it would be helpful to reopen the debate at this late hour. i will ask the commissioner if he will answer the first part, without going into the second. the discussion has already taken place. the subject will be put back on the agenda for a subsequent plenary session.
commission. – mr president, if you allow me then to reply to the first part of the question, the answer is ‘within a few weeks’.
- this debate is over. composition of parliament - agenda for the next sitting: see minutes (the sitting was closed at 8.38 p.m.)
deputising for the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. – mr president, i am delighted to follow mr colom i naval's excellent speech. i am speaking also on behalf of my colleague, mr wijkman, who is not here. the committee on development and cooperation is very concerned that the edf is still not budgeted. there is now something called the joint parliamentary assembly of the acp and eu, the only parliamentary assembly in the world which does not look at a budget. it is quite ridiculous that this state of affairs should be allowed to continue. if we are going to implement sectoral targets in the development budget then we need to move towards a budget which can have result-oriented strategy included in the budget itself so that the country strategies that the development commission is trying to put into place can decentralise and give greater control to our delegations. otherwise we have an old-fashioned budget looking at a new model of economic management. another thing i would like to mention is information technology and sustainable energy in the development budget. transport and communication has been old-fashioned stuff that has been put in the budget year after year, but there are new technologies that we also need to take into account. finally, a global fund for the combating of aids needs to be considered in our budget. just asking the chemical companies and pharmaceutical companies to cut prices is not enough. (applause from the right)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. – mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on establishing a clear set of priorities. i particularly welcome the emphasis on food safety and consumer confidence and improving the implementation of the eu budget. however, speaking on behalf of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, i have to express my concern at the absence of any major areas of this committee's priorities in these guidelines. the committee's opinion has been appended but i would urge the rapporteur and the commissioner to accord the following areas greater emphasis during this year's budgetary process. first, the funding for the information society does not really correspond to the importance attached to it by the heads of state or government when it was launched with much fanfare at lisbon. the information society is an area that has caught the imagination of european citizens and they want to see results. but within the eu budget it is nothing more than an afterthought. if we are to really connect the eu to its citizens, we must put our money where our mouth is. we need to recognise that this is where the future of new european jobs lies. however, the eu, and more importantly the eu budget, has never taken this on board. we also have to address the issue of the possibility of the emergence of a digital divide in europe. we must do all we can to prevent the emergence of an information underclass. that would drive a thick wedge between those who have access to information and those who do not. i therefore urge the commissioner to seize the initiative to ensure that the resources are enhanced to allow the information society to conform to the principle of equality, in terms of both accessibility and opportunity. my second point relates to energy. it is clear that we are too dependent on external resources. what we must do is enhance europe's renewable energy capacity. we must avoid a situation similar to last year where industry across europe was brought to a standstill by a small group of people. therefore, we need corporate approach looking at alternative sources of energy. finally, what i am trying to obtain is not a shopping list of priorities for these guidelines; i am, however, trying to ensure that adequate support and resources are targeted to areas that underpin europe's future economic success.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on petitions. – mr president, i am speaking on behalf of the committee on petitions, which, although it cannot be described as a large spending committee, has an important role: to protect the rights of citizens who appeal to this parliament to look after their rights. we have two very modest requests of the budget which are contained within the buitenweg report. one is that there should be a proper database so that citizens can follow their petitions through the internet. we expect that to be up and running by the end of next year and we want there to be money for that. secondly, in preparation for enlargement, whatever language regime we choose, preparations must be made to enable citizens of the applicant countries to petition this parliament in their own language. finally, i should like to make the point that the committee on petitions does not require money, but that it does require the support of parliament, the commission and the council so that it can have access to documents. that is free. it does not cost anything. but i can tell you that at present there are a number of petitions – for instance the lloyd's petition – concerning which the commission and council are refusing parliament access to information.
mr president, i should like, as others have done, to congratulate our two rapporteurs for introducing our budgets for 2002 and, in particular, referring first to that of mr costa neves, perhaps as the bulk of my speech this morning, i would like to say to mr wurtz that he has indeed struck the right balance in terms of priorities, in terms of responsibilities which the european union has to manage – agriculture is central to that – and social issues, as we noticed in the lisbon run-up and the follow-on in stockholm last week. these are essentially national responsibilities, national budgets. we can do very little at european level to have large social programmes of the kind to which i think you were referring. what strikes me most in these two budgets is the emergence of interinstitutional cooperation, which ten years ago was perhaps more of a wish than a practice. i have in front of me the council priorities, although for the first time in history no one is here to represent the council. it is somewhat ironic that it says in the first paragraph of their document: "the council welcomes the spirit of cooperation that governed work on preparation and emphasises the importance of continuing the good collaboration between the two arms of the budgetary authority and the commission." nevertheless one has to take at face value the statement that the council wishes to examine closely the report which the commission is to submit before 30 june 2001 on progress in reducing outstanding commitments to bring them down to a normal level. those who were present in december last year will remember that when parliament put forward this joint declaration, no one in the council actually welcomed it. on the contrary, they seemed somewhat hostile to it. so i certainly welcome the fact that they wish to cooperate with us in trying to reduce the backlog of commitments, in trying to make sure that there is a better parallel between the legislative and budgetary procedures and that performance targets are set, particularly in category 4 in external policy. another area which reflects interinstitutional cooperation, which is important in mr costa neves' report, is information policy, where for years we have been trying to get good value for money, and for years we have met with little success, to say the least. no wonder we find 50% of the information funds still in reserve, still waiting for the commission's proposals. i urge the commission to come forward with these as soon as possible, hopefully having discussed things with parliament's own administration before doing so. lastly, on external policy, our rapporteur has indicated the need to set priorities. we know that scarce resources in the budget will be with us for the foreseeable future. in the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy there is a very good idea, although not one taken up in mr costa neves' report at the present time, that we should be seeking external advice on how to set priorities in foreign policy, so that we can begin to have some direction in the longer term as to how our money should be spent. we should investigate that more. turning to the buitenweg report, i should also like to emphasise the very clear emergence of interinstitutional cooperation in environmental and transport matters and as regards an interinstitutional recruitment office – which i very much hope will soon be up and running, to ensure that european citizens get the best value for money. there are one or two areas where perhaps there will be difficulties regarding interinstitutional cooperation, not least as regards early retirement. while we certainly support that, we would prefer to have a compulsory system, were that to be possible under the statute. we have had our discussions on the 2001 budget on that particular matter, and will certainly be looking to have these proposals applied within parliament if possible. but most important – and here i address the secretary-general of parliament – is the letter which the president of my group sent to the president of parliament yesterday about the absolute need to have a multi-annual plan for enlargement before the first reading of parliament's budget so that we can get a grip on what is likely to come in terms of expenditure in linguistic services and a whole range of other matters. please do not expect us to approve what you might propose later in the summer without having had a full debate with our political groups. that is highly unlikely to happen unless we are given the time to examine them effectively. to conclude, i welcome the fact that this interinstitutional spirit is emerging. we would like to promote that, respecting the fact that each institution has the right to take its own decisions. i hope that we will come to the right decisions concerning value-for-money for the citizens of europe. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, mrs buitenweg and mr costa neves, for the remarkable job they have done in getting these guidelines together in such a short space of time. they are relative newcomers to our committee and they have shown their grasp of what our committee is about. with this type of guideline we will not go far wrong as we go through this year. i wish to comment on several items. first, mr costa neves' report and the commission's budget. the big problem that we have had in the last two years has been with category 4, especially the balkans, trying to get the correct amount of money, having arguments with the council, using the flexibility instrument and all in all not having a satisfactory procedure. hopefully those problems will be solved and we should not be in that situation for next year. having said that, we still await the world bank report on the needs of serbia. but when the ad hoc delegation went to serbia earlier this year, and we were discussing this with the world bank, they made the point that they would be looking at the supply side to see what the needs of serbia were. to my understanding this meant that we will see what the donors can give before we decide what the needs are. even with that type of statement, we will not be in the same situation on trying to find the funds for category 4 for next year. we will see problems arising in the future with category 5. the present sab 2 for 2001, as markus ferber mentioned earlier, is causing some people concern, not just about the needs of the council in that sab but also about what it is going to do to the margin of category 5. when we had the trialogue last thursday, the swedish presidency took on board, and were very amenable to, what we were saying. we stressed that there is a need for the three institutions to get together as soon as possible to start talking about the margins – especially in category 5, but we have to start looking at categories 3 and 4 as well. on category 1, the bse crisis and now foot-and-mouth are raging, if that is the right word. foot-and-mouth is certainly raging in the member state i come from and in the region that i represent. the council and commission have made it quite clear that there will be no new money next year in category 1. whatever the consequences of these two diseases, the money will have to be found from within category 1. members need to be made aware of that before they start expecting new monies to be made available by the council. the fourth point on the costa neves report is the commission reforms referred to in paragraphs 7, 8 and 9. these are essential. i would ask the council to give some indication as to what they will be proposing for a legal base for the early retirement scheme. until we know that we cannot really make our mind up as to what we should be supporting for next year. on the buitenweg report, can i comment on the fact that enlargement is a problem. the interinstitutional agreement states that any needs for enlargement will be met through a revision of the financial perspective. what then do we do when we want to plan for language training, new recruitment or adaptation of buildings? this is what mr elles was touching on and i am trying to be more subtle by saying that what we need to be doing is looking now at what the needs of enlargement are, and once again talking with the other institutions to look at a revision for enlargement. we need to resolve this between the three institutions. it is something that will not go away and as each week passes it approaches quicker and quicker. the colom i naval report seems to have caused a lot of problems recently but hopefully we will have a solution in the very near future and those in the member states who have been ringing around and those in the commission who have been – dare i say – panicking can put their minds at rest. finally there is the haug report which no one else has mentioned but i need to mention it. if i were not the chairman of the budgets committee but just a simple member, i would say that i have doubts with mrs haug's report and i would not vote for amendment 3. but, of course, i am the chairman and i cannot say those things, so i won't.
mr president, i too want to start by congratulating mrs buitenweg both on the report itself and on the way in which she has sought to accommodate and integrate different viewpoints. i welcome the emphasis she has put in the adoption of abb because i believe it is critical to the future transparency of all the eu institutions and will affect how they will work. my group particularly welcomes the reference to the assistance statute and the funding for political parties. i also wholeheartedly support the emphasis in these guidelines on enlargement and the implications of decisions taken at nice. however, what concerns me is the piecemeal approach taken to date by all the institutions when looking at the budgetary implications of this topic. what is needed is the joint comprehensive strategy that this report calls for, encompassing all aspects of enlargement both in the short term and in the longer term. it is crucial that we fully anticipate and evaluate the budgetary consequence that enlargement will have on all the institutions, because if we do not we will have difficulty maintaining budgetary discipline and efficiency. we have therefore asked for each institution to present a strategy setting out how it sees the impact of enlargement on its services. the strategy needs to be radical, especially in relation to interpretation and translation services, because this is likely to be the biggest area of growth: we could end up with a public service of something like 60 000 employees and that will hardly be value for money for the european taxpayer. that is why my group is very concerned about paragraph 12 which asks for figures to be included in the pdb before we have actually debated a strategy. that really is putting the cart before the horse. secondly, i have further concerns about the wisdom of including paragraph 19 in these guidelines because it asks for a full review of all the standing committees at the halfway mark in this parliament. all this will achieve is greater disruption and confusion, and it goes against the level of planning we are asking from all the institutions elsewhere in the report. therefore, i would urge our colleagues in the ppe-de to withdraw these amendments.
mr president, can i first congratulate the two rapporteurs, mr costa neves and mrs buitenweg on their excellent presentation of the expectations for next year. i am sure that parliament is properly under control for that period. this morning i want to concentrate on just one issue: structural funding. why it has not yet been fully used and what should its future be? i want to be both controversial and constructive. either through poor administration or delayed planning of what should happen and what should be approved by the european authorities, and perhaps in conjunction with the national authorities, we are behind on spending on structural funding both for inner-cities and rural areas. now, i want to be controversial and i am spelling out that word, because i do not agree that all we should do is push back the spending and get an enormous lump in four or five years time. we should be looking ahead. when enlargement takes place, the countries coming into the european union will be expecting structural funding; the very funding which our existing countries will be deprived of because they will not be able to benefit if we have to satisfy one budget on structural funding. in other words, the new countries will expect and should obtain funding for their requirements. my way around this is to say that the funds that have not been used so far should be lost to the system. as we have heard, this is the intention. but why not take advantage of that straight away? why not send back the funding that has not been used to the countries who pay the contributions? they are mainly the ones hit by foot-and-mouth. they need to use that money to compensate for the crisis in rural areas.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. – mr president, on behalf of the environment committee, i would like to add a few final words before the commissioner sums up. we have watched with interest the development of the budgetary process so far and we thank the two rapporteurs who have produced a good report along the right lines. but i want to emphasise some issues and i hope mrs schreyer will take them up and endeavour to ensure that they are pushed through the commission. first, we have long called upon the commission to do more with regard to greening the budget. the area of agriculture remains largely untouched and much more work needs to be done on greening the structural funds and other areas of the commission's activity. we would look for a fresh initiative from the commission on this. make sure the money is properly spent in a sustainable way. with regard to the spending of money external to the union, particularly in eastern and central europe, we would hope that the commission will focus its efforts, particularly through the phare programme and other projects guaranteeing the implementation and enforcement of european union legislation. these countries have signed up to the acquis communautaire and we expect them to satisfy its requirements before they enter the union. we cannot compromise on environmental standards in those areas. i hope that monies will be directed towards ensuring that. as regards public health, an area of competence that was enlarged during the amsterdam treaty and is currently undergoing reform, we would hope that the outcome of that reform will be an enlarged programme on public health issues and that the commission will accept that and find the necessary funding – which inevitably will mean more than they are spending now. whilst the legal justification for action in the area of public health is clear, it seems to me that there is still a lack of clarity with regard to the legal basis for action by the commission in some other areas. i would ask the commission to renew its efforts to clarify the legal basis for some areas of action in the field of the environment. there are two other important issues which i want to bring to the attention of the commission. first, there is an ongoing confusion about the funding of certain ngos and the monies provided by the commission for their funding. please get this sorted out. finally, we have long argued in this parliament about the problem of the subsidy on tobacco production in southern europe and the other issues related to tobacco production. we need a new initiative from the commission on this. it is time to break the deadlock. the continued spending of money in that way is unacceptable. i hope the commission has heard what we say.
madam president, i should just like to briefly explain why i supported amendment no 35, which could be described as a "wrecking amendment". it was not the intention of this amendment to wreck the directive. but because the changes parliament wants to make to this directive are so fundamental, we would like to send it back to the commission to allow them to rewrite it to take into account the marketing ban and take a more realistic view of the alternative testing methods that may be available, not using animals. therefore i would not like my vote and those of the others in my group who supported that amendment to be misconstrued. the united kingdom has already banned animal testing. we would like to see that taken forward in a realistic and practical way.
in writing. -{en) we would like to elaborate on the explanation of our support for the key principles of the roth-berendt report voted on today. we believe that it does a valuable service in demonstrating to the commission and the member states how much public anger there is over the delays in phasing out animal testing for cosmetics. we are confident that the member states will have taken note of the clear majority expressed here. this is a vote to ban products tested on animals where alternative tests exist, to abolish animal testing for a period of 4 years and then to gradually introduce a marketing ban for an agreed period. we hope that the whole sector will take these proposals into account. some of the leading actors have already done it. to our knowledge, about one third of the main tests can now be carried out by alternative methods, one third are modified and one third are awaiting an effective solution. we believe that our proposal, if taken seriously, will accelerate the necessary research. the industry has every reason to use its considerable resources to advance alternative testing rather than to fund costly procrastination campaigns. similarly, products will benefit rather than be harmed if they are accurately labelled so that the public is warned of the presence of possible allergens. we are convinced that today's vote will, in the long term, be beneficial to the health and profitability of the european cosmetics industry and the public it serves.
- the agenda calls for the continuation of the joint debate on the six reports of the committee on budgetary control on discharge.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. – mr president, i speak on behalf of our rapporteur, mrs matikainen-kallström, who is unable to be here today. the committee took a common approach in its opinion on the need to improve the quality of action and performance as a way of achieving better value for taxpayers' money. for example, we wish to remind the commission of the need to achieve higher standards in auditing the research programmes, particularly in the context of the european research area proposals. we also look to the commission to improve the management of contracts by the joint research centre. this is a theme continued from the past. we are looking for improvement in the management of tacis and other programmes in the field of nuclear safety in central and eastern europe. we put forward the suggestion of creating a separate budget line for strengthening cooperation on nuclear safety in northern parts of europe. we observe that the synergy programme seems to have lost some of its priority in the commission and we wish to see this programme continued successfully. we want more spending on synergy. i turn now to the other report on the coal and steel part of the budget. the committee is very keen on seeing maximum transparency in the disclosure of data concerning the value of the ecsc's assets. we note the commission's undertaking on the provision of information about these assets and expect this information to be delivered. (applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport. – mr president, culture is certainly not a high priority for parliament or the commission. we are very fortunate to get something like half of 1% of the budget and i only get one minute to present our concerns. it is tremendously important that the very little amount of money we have should be spent efficiently and effectively. fortunately we tend not to suffer from the allegations of fraud and mismanagement that one sees elsewhere but we do have a problem about the very worthy organisations that want support from parliament actually receiving the money. just to give three examples for the 1999 financial year we are looking at: the european youth orchestra, the european youth parliament, the yehudi menuhin foundation only received their grant from the european commission in the last days of the year. this causes real problems for those organisations. we accepted it for 1999, but i hope it will not recur in the year 2000. i would say to the commissioner: please ensure that if we are going to give money, we do it efficiently and effectively so that it does good rather than damage to the european cause.
, draftsman of the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. – mr president, the committee on development and cooperation has focussed its work on the discharge on the single most important point of whether the commission is achieving its stated aim of using the development assistance budget to combat poverty by shifting significant additional resources to the provision of basic health and education in developing countries. i am sad to report that the figures for 1999 show that this was the first year ever when the least developed countries received under 50% of overseas development aid administered by the commission. this is a trend we desperately need to reverse. as mr blak's resolution states in paragraph 8, point 19 – and i thank him for this – when 880 million people world-wide lack any access to health services, just 1% of the commission's external assistance budget went to health in 1999 and we do not have any figures at all for education. is this a discharge issue? yes, quite clearly, when the community action plan in response to our parliamentary resolution on the 1998 discharge said: "since health and education will receive more emphasis, the implication is that a greater amount of financing than in the past would be dedicated to these sectors." it goes on to say, "adopting oecd standards on reporting should be feasible by 2001." mrs schreyer, we insist that the commission must fulfil these promises. your so-called reservation against the output targets properly voted by parliament precisely to increase spending on basic health and education is contrary to the agreed budget. whatever happens this year, you cannot expect discharge for 2001 unless they are fulfilled. on the essential reporting needed, using the oecd development assistance committee methodology to enable us to achieve this poverty focus, we have more concern over whether this is achieved for asia and latin america as against our aid for the acp countries. that is why the committee on development and cooperation did not vote to postpone discharge for the european development fund. we did not want to send the wrong signal against the strong support we wish to demonstrate for the reform process. but if discharge is postponed, i thank mrs rühle for her insistence that the latest figures using the dac methodology are brought forward by may. this will ensure that the poorest people actually receive the aid. i defy anyone to disagree with that.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. – mr president, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy effectively does not have much supervision over large parts of the budget. however, over those lines that we do have supervision we express our concerns and have done so in the past. i am pleased that as a result of our concerns about the life programme the monies that are dispensed through the life programme, both within the union and externally, are going to be examined by the court of auditors. i understand the court of auditors is looking at this budget line for this year and on that basis we would be happy, despite our reservations, to grant discharge or to recommend the granting of discharge. regarding the other lines, we do not have many concerns about the consumer lines where we see that the work is going on quite effectively, but i would draw the attention of the house and the commission to the health programme and the health budget lines. although that programme is currently under review and is due to be reorganised, we felt when we examined it last year that there were a great number of small projects without a great deal of clarity or order to them. whilst we expressed some concerns about this, we are prepared to support the idea of discharge on the basis that the new head of the dg for health will investigate these issues and bring forward a report to the house.
mr president, i welcome the various reports, the blak, stauner, folias, seppänen, van der laan and rühle reports, because i know so much work went into them. i want to restrict my comments to freddy blak's excellent report on the commission discharge for 1999. 1999 – what a year that was. not only was it the first year that i was elected – and hold back your cheers now – but in budgetary control terms it was fascinating. it was the year of three types of commission: two months of the old commission that had a number of problems that we all know about; six months of no commission whatsoever because they were not taking any management decisions; and then the rest of the year was with the new commission who had no time to implement any of the reforms. 1999 – another year with an error rate of about 5% or roughly eur 4.5 billion. 1999 – the sixth year running that the court of auditors refused to write off the accounts. 1999 – the year in which freddy blak found huge errors, fraud and problems in the accounts, scandals all of them including, for example, the wonderful washington delegation that warranted a whole two paragraphs in the report. i believe the commissioner will be able to confirm that the building was bought for usd 0.5 million, refurbished to the tune of usd 2.2 million – that is four times what it was bought for – whilst renting somewhere else for about usd 18 000 per month which was cheaper than where the commission's residence was beforehand because i believe it was in the four seasons hotel. there were other problems with irela, flax and fléchard, too, and all we have to do in this house is look at our previous reports. we have consistently said that if the error rate does not improve in the 1999 year, then we could not and should not pass these accounts. the error rate quite simply did not improve. i checked with the court of auditors and they confirmed that the error rate was the same or marginally worse. what conclusions should we draw from this? it is fairly obvious: the error rate did not improve; eur 4.5 billion lost, unaccounted for, mismanaged; we do not give discharge. i hear that the socialists and other groups are actually thinking of granting discharge and i cannot think why. how on earth are we going to explain that back home? please do not be scared that by not granting discharge you will cause this commission to fall. you simply will not. there is nothing in the treaties that says that must happen. 1999 is not the year for which this commission is responsible. what you will be doing, however, is sending a message to this commission and the public who elected us here – you remember them, some of them actually bother to visit us occasionally – that we are steadfastly against waste, fraud and mismanagement; that we are drawing a line in the sand, that what went before 1999 was completely unacceptable and what happens now and in the future must be better. commissioner, i would appreciate your answer on the washington delegation because it is very odd that we do not get to see a number of these facts until we actually ask for them. i also ask you to promise us that the error rate will improve.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. in conclusion, in view of the passage of time, i would like to make a few brief remarks after this debate. firstly, how will the commission deal with fraud detected or suspected? fortunately, we have had olaf since 1999, and this is of course a different approach to a similar case, such as the fléchard case in 1991. i would like to emphasize once again that in a comparable case the same course of action and the same decisions would not be taken. of course, the details are also important. we were just talking about the blacklist. the situation is that, so far, companies can only be placed on this blacklist if they have been convicted, and also if the member states put them on it. this is of course a weak point, and here we are working on the proposal that the commission should also have the right to put companies on this list. but at the same time i must say that it is a council regulation. we shall of course see how the debate on this goes. the question is: if fraud is discovered and prosecuted, how do the courts of the member states deal with it? yes, we know. the procedure differs in both speed and thoroughness. i do not want to make any suggestions to any particular member state, it is just observation. in this respect, the prosecutor is of course still on the agenda. i say it again: we believe that we have no legal basis to use a prosecutor if the contract is not changed. we will present the green paper, we will also try to put more pressure with a directive in line with the regulation on the protection of financial interests, so we will keep the matter under control in this sense. i am not yet pessimistic that at least by the next intergovernmental conference - hopefully it will be different then, perhaps by the next convention - we will have achieved a different treatment and decision on this subject. the commission has also submitted a communication on the amendment of the disciplinary procedure, and i would also point out that the commission, in the discharge procedure, submits to parliament a list of disciplinary procedures, including the results, which have been opened or closed in a given year. i am not aware of any other member state which is so well informed about its own problems and deals with them in relation to parliament, not even those which sometimes boast of great transparency. another point raised was the question of budgetary execution. it has been said on several occasions that there are still many problems in budget implementation, i.e. the transposition of the decisions of the budgetary authority into concrete policies, particularly in the field of foreign policy. last year, for example, implementation in the structural funds was poor. i have to say this because the new programme has not been approved and implemented everywhere. in the field of foreign policy, much has improved, partly because, for example, the kosovo reconstruction agency has followed a different administrative approach, in accordance with the decisions of parliament, which has so far proved very successful. so this is something that we must of course take into account in the whole reform process. i would like to say again on the implementation of the budget: we will now be submitting to parliament weekly data on the implementation of the budget, and again in this area i am not aware of any member state which has provided parliament with such up-to-date information as will be the case then. on the subject of positive das: as the budgetary commissioner, who is also responsible for the discharge process, i would naturally prefer a positive das today rather than tomorrow. it's obvious. but i also know, of course, that a declaration of reliability by the court of auditors - first of all, it is its decision and it has not set itself a date for issuing it - cannot be achieved by a single action or a few actions and improvements, but that a wide field must be covered here, because the difficulties in reducing fraud and errors in the various areas, whether it be the structural funds, agricultural policy or research policy, require very different measures. the report by mr blak makes this very clear. it is indeed a vast field, and improving budgetary management, reducing errors, preventing fraud is sometimes a minefield to keep it in this language. the commission's action plan and the administrative reform are also a programme of mine clearance, so that the budgetary authority's budgetary decisions in the future will be taken on fertile and unmined ground. i can assure parliament once again on behalf of the commission that after the discharge decision we will not sit back and put our hands down, but will continue to work with our sleeves up and do more. (applause from the centre)
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the commission statement on foot-and-mouth disease.
commission. – mr president, members of parliament, i am pleased to update you further on the current outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease. to date, the outbreak remains largely confined to the uk, where almost 99% of cases recorded so far have occurred. the outbreak started with two cases detected on 20 february. over the following weeks, however, the number of cases rose exponentially with daily totals sometimes 50 or more in number. as we speak, the total number of cases in the uk stands at over 900. the situation in the other affected member states is fortunately not as serious. there have been two cases in france, twelve in the netherlands and one case in ireland; however, we need to maintain a very high level of vigilance. all member states are putting huge resources into combating the current outbreak. this is especially the case in the member states which have recorded cases, and in the uk in particular. there has been a very high level of solidarity and cooperation between member states in the current difficult circumstances. the commission's strategy towards the crisis has been to act decisively and quickly. our aim is to assist the member states to eradicate foot-and-mouth disease. there is a consensus on this objective. other considerations – very important considerations – arising from the crisis will have to wait until this objective has been achieved. we are maintaining a very high level of coordination and cooperation with the member states: for example, there have been eight meetings of the standing veterinary committee since the crisis broke; a ninth meeting is taking place in brussels as we speak; and two further specialist meetings of laboratory experts on foot-and-mouth disease and on zoo animals have also taken place. there are also innumerable daily contacts and information exchanges with and between the member states. we are acting urgently on all new information. for example, the commission has acted to impose restrictions on exports and animal movements from affected member states and regions within 24 hours of confirmed outbreaks. there have been no fewer than 18 decisions adopted by the commission since the outbreak of this crisis. we are acting with as much transparency as possible. in addition to the meetings of the svc, the crisis has been discussed twice in the agriculture council and five times in the committee on agriculture and rural development, in the european council, in copa or with professional organisations, and in countless press conferences and technical briefings. this is my third appearance in parliament to update you on developments. i have also asked my officials to be available at all times to keep you informed on the progress of the outbreak. where possible, we are adopting a regionalised approach to any new outbreaks. this is designed to allow trade to continue, with however very severe safeguards to prevent further spread of the disease. the commission has worked hard to convince third countries that exports from the community are safe and are not a risk. i met the new us secretary for agriculture, ann veneman, last week in washington, and she has undertaken to regularly review the situation. our efforts are continuing to secure recognition for this regionalised approach by major export markets like japan. i remain satisfied that the protective measures in place are sufficient to safeguard against the export of the virus to third countries. i repeat my call on them to lift unnecessary and unjustified restrictions. i will now turn to the full range of community measures in place. as i noted earlier, there are no fewer than 18 decisions adopted by the commission to date and there will, no doubt, be more. they fall into two broad categories: first, measures with community-wide effect; and second, measures which are specific to individual member states. on to the first category, community-wide measures excluding the uk, there are still very important restrictions on movements of live and susceptible animals. essentially, with a few exceptions, movements are only possible from a holding to an abattoir, or to another holding with permission. in both cases, movements have to be authorised by the competent authorities of the place of departure and of destination. this has proven essential to avoid the possible further spread of the disease on the continent. another essential measure was the obligation to slaughter all sheep imported from the uk between 1 february and 21 february. this has been proven by the epidemiology of the french outbreak two weeks later, as of 13 march, as the most crucial decision to avoid further spread on the continent of europe. there are also important safeguards to ensure that any such transports do not allow animals to come into contact with animals from other holdings except for direct slaughter. vehicles are cleaned and disinfected, adequate notice of movements of animals is given; movements of susceptible animals into the holding of dispatch within the previous 30 days have not taken place. finally, there is now a suspension in place on staging posts, while the maximum transport time is maintained. these points are designed to provide facilities for the resting, watering and feeding of live animals in transport; however, they are also an opportunity for animals to be cross-contaminated by other animals. i will now turn to community measures in relation to individual member states. in relation to the uk, there is a total ban on exports of susceptible live animals, untreated meat and meat products. however, northern ireland will be excluded from this measure with effect from today with two important exceptions. there will be no exports of live susceptible animals, and there will be no change in the current restrictions in the area of newry and mourne where northern ireland's only case of foot-and-mouth disease was detected almost five weeks ago. in relation to france, the netherlands and ireland, there is a ban on the export of live susceptible animals. there is also a ban on the export of untreated meat and meat products, milk and milk products from the affected regions in ireland (one county), in the netherlands (four provinces), and in france (three départements). these restrictions are adapted as circumstances change. hence in france for example, the ban on exports of live susceptible animals will remain in force until 12 april. however, the restrictions on exports of untreated meat and meat products will only apply to the three départements where the second case was detected on 23 march, as of today and following detailed investigations of the epidemiological situation. the existing restrictions in relation to ireland remain in place until 19 april. in the netherlands, where there have been a total of 12 cases since the first case was detected on 21 march, the situation will be reviewed in the svc today and tomorrow. in both of these member states, the restrictions on products are confined to the regions where the cases have been detected. that summarises the situation insofar as restrictions on exports and movements of animals are concerned. i would now like to turn to two other important measures adopted in recent days. these concern the commission decision to approve vaccination in clearly defined circumstances in the netherlands and in the united kingdom. the decision in relation to the netherlands provides for suppressive vaccination. this involves the vaccination of animals pending their pre-emptive killing and destruction to prevent the further spread of the virus. it has a role to play where there is insufficient capacity to carry out this killing and slaughter with the speed necessary to prevent the further spread of the disease. the netherlands is in this unfortunate position and the commission and the member states in the svc are sympathetic to the situation. accordingly, it is entirely appropriate to allow vaccination to take place in these circumstances. the decision in relation to the united kingdom is more complex. it is confined to cattle only in the counties of cumbria and devon. other species would not be vaccinated but pre-emptively killed in a certain radius around infected premises. in contrast with the present policy in the netherlands, the vaccinated bovines would not necessarily be killed and destroyed. however, there would be very strict restrictions on the movements of these bovine animals, by and large dairy cows, which would effectively confine them to the regions concerned. there would also be important restrictions on the movement of their milk and milk products and, when eventually slaughtered, of meat and meat products from these animals. it is a measure of the consequences of vaccination that the uk has not yet decided if it will avail itself of the commission decision in the circumstances in which it has been requested. the netherlands for its part is considering a request for a revised scheme similar to that approved in the uk. as we speak, the standing veterinary committee is discussing that particular request. i fully appreciate that vaccination is a very emotive subject. it certainly appears as an attractive alternative to killing and destroying animals. but the reality is far different. this reality is that there are important limitations to vaccination and there is still no widespread support for such a policy. generalised vaccination has not been asked for by the member states, including the netherlands and the uk. it has not been asked for by the european council which discussed the crisis in stockholm recently. and it has not been asked for by the farming community at large, nor have i heard any demands for its introduction in this, my third appearance, in this parliament. the reality is that it is a complex issue with formidable challenges. i have spoken to you before of some of these challenges. let me now repeat them. there is no approved test to distinguish individually vaccinated animals from infected animals. this allows the disease to continue to persist in the animal population. there are seven serotypes of fmd, each with several sub-strains. vaccination is only effective against the targeted strain and for a limited period only. as the disease is not endemic in the eu, the selection of the appropriate vaccine strain would be a pure lottery. there are over 300 million susceptible livestock – cattle, sheep and pigs – in the eu which would need to be vaccinated to give full coverage and it would jeopardise our trade between the member states and with certain countries which insist on imports only from fmd-free countries which do not vaccinate. in the light of these circumstances, there is still a consensus that eradication of the present outbreak without the use of generalised vaccination is the best course of action. before concluding i intend that, when this outbreak has been eradicated, we will carry out a very thorough examination of all the contributory factors to the current outbreak and the consequences. these will include issues such as the following which fall within my own area of responsibility: weaknesses in traceability of animals, especially of sheep and pigs; animal transport and especially measures which allow live animals from different member states to cross-contaminate one another; vaccination and whether there needs to be a departure from the current policy of 'no' to generalised vaccination and, if so, in what circumstances and in what conditions; sanitary controls on imports, bearing in mind that the existing eu provisions are adequate if respected, not only to keep out the virus but also to ensure public health requirements are fully and properly respected. but there are other wider issues which will also need to be considered. costs: the present outbreak already has a full potential cost to the community budget of up to eur 170 million on disease eradication measures alone. research into new marker vaccines and discriminatory tests which will allow vaccinated animals to be easily distinguished from infected animals thus giving much greater scope for protective vaccination. there has already been good progress in this area and it needs to be intensified. further discussions in the relevant international bodies, especially in the oie on the current approach towards the virus and perhaps, most importantly of all the issues raised, our current systems of animal production and their interaction with the non-farming rural community which has suffered hugely in recent weeks. however, these issues can only be addressed when the current crisis has been brought under control. i hope that this will take place sooner rather than later. thank you for your attention and i now look forward to hearing your views.
mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for his very detailed statement which, without wishing in any way to put aside the devastation of the impact of this outbreak, will have counteracted some of the hysteria that we have encountered. there was complete agreement that slaughter and containment was the most effective policy when this disease broke out. but for the rapid action of the united kingdom government to ban exports and impose movement restrictions and alert other member states, the impact on the continent and in britain would have been far greater. sound-bite television has not been helpful to public understanding of this complicated disease – as you may have experienced a few moments ago, commissioner. vaccination is not as simple as some suggest. i congratulate the commissioner for making that clear and destroying some of the myths that have been bandied about. the standing committee has only agreed to vaccination with the proviso that quarantine, slaughter and disposal remain the most effective means of eradicating the disease. that clear message should go out from this parliament. there is no threat to human health. the vast majority of britain's countryside is disease-free and open for business, subject to sensible precautions about staying away from farm land and farm animals. this outbreak will continue for some time and must, as the commissioner said, be followed by a full inquiry. there is little doubt that the virulence of the virus and the extensive sheep movements just before the outbreak have been important factors in the spread of the disease. but we need to know more about the incubation period, the epidemiology of the virus and how farming practices have been contributing factors. i welcome the commitment of the commissioner to look at all these and other factors. pontificating on instant solutions in advance of an inquiry will not be helpful.
mr president, in the wake of the implications of fmd for communities directly and indirectly affected by the outbreak, it is vital that we learn the lessons of the mishandling of the outbreak which has caused such devastating knock-on effects for many sectors of society. the consequential loss to those directly and indirectly affected by the disease has so far been enormous: hauliers, abattoirs, tourism, cultural events, schools and the small business sector are all bearing the brunt. farmers whose stock is not affected directly by fmd, but who are unable to move their stock to markets, are also facing massive losses, further exacerbated by the ban on the sale of cattle over 30 months following the bse crisis. commissioner, i learnt from one of my colleagues last week that if the uk were to offer state aid to those affected by the crisis, this would not contravene european union competition policy. i would appreciate clarification by the commission on this point. we must also call again for the re-establishment of local abattoirs and a reduction in animal transport over long distances, which undoubtedly acted as a catalyst for the rapid spread.
mr president, mr byrne has given us a very clear statement this afternoon in an area that was requiring more clarity. in cumbria, where the outbreak was spreading out of control, we told the farmers that they would have to slaughter even healthy animals in a preventative cull. they reluctantly agreed to comply with that request and the slaughter of healthy animals has begun. now we appear to be changing direction and saying at a time when we have not enough veterinary resources to deal with the backlog of animals requiring slaughter, with the huge backlog of animals requiring disposal burial, we are saying now that we wish to diversify and use these vets for a mass vaccination policy. this sort of dithering has been an element which has been obvious throughout this whole disease. to say that the uk government has been decisive is a nonsense: it dithered over whether to bring in the army. it dithered whether to use incineration instead of burial. now it is dithering over vaccination. let me say this afternoon that vaccination is not the right way forward. after what mr byrne has told us, if we use the vaccination policy we effectively bring down the curtain on our agricultural economy. we would close off the export trade for all these products from animals in the areas where vaccination had been used. vaccination is not a sensible way forward just now during the epidemic. we know that in saudi arabia they have used the vaccination policy for the last two years. they have nevertheless had six outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease. we know that when you vaccinate cattle it can take up to 14 days before they develop immunity. in the case of pigs it can take 7 days. during that time they can spread the virus. i would pose one question to mr byrne before i finish. he was talking about whole areas of holland, france and ireland where restrictions will be lifted. will similar restrictions be lifted in areas of the united kingdom not affected by the disease?
mr president, the commissioner has told us that vaccination has not been asked for. it is being asked for today in this house. a decision on vaccination is not easy. i understand that many farmers are reluctant to go down the route of vaccination but the effect of this outbreak is being felt not only by the farming community, but by hauliers, hoteliers and a whole host of tourist businesses who are suffering without compensation. the commissioner told us the disease has cost eur 170 million in eradication measures. it is costing far more in lost business. if science allows us to distinguish between animals which have been vaccinated and those carrying the disease, then vaccination should be allowed whenever requested. the lessons from the uk are of inadequate contingency planning, an inadequate number of vets due to cuts in government services and inadequate supplies of labour and materials. i would ask the commissioner three questions. are you satisfied with the uk's response to this disease? are you satisfied that other countries have adequate contingency plans? would you confirm that the first you heard of this disease in the uk was indeed on 20 february or were your services in fact tipped off about a possible outbreak some weeks earlier?
mr president, today at 12 noon in london there was a strong protest outside the ministry of agriculture, fisheries and food against the senseless culling of millions of healthy animals. the message to the uk government was clear: to help prevent the slaughter of millions of healthy animals and to save farmers and the tourist industry from economic ruin, the government must urgently start a vaccinate-now firebreak campaign. in the longer term, europe's farming must become less dependent on international trade and more self-reliant. it is a nonsense that we simultaneously export and import precisely the same product to and from the same country and it is clear that it is not small farmers' livelihoods, animal welfare or the tourist industry that the uk government has as its priority for protection, but simply our meat exports. commissioner byrne, you also talked of not vaccinating in order to safeguard trade; yet even this dismal economic justification for culling on such a scale does not stand up. according to the national farmers' union, the uk earns just gbp 633 million per year from meat and dairy exports. compare this with the estimated gbp 9 billion cost of the foot-and-mouth epidemic. we therefore urge the commissioner to revise the eu strategy of defending, by all means, its fmd-free status, and to recognise that the culling and destruction of healthy animals is both inhumane and ineffective.
mr president, commissioner byrne, some of us appreciate your dilemma and your unwillingness to rush to judgement. if there were simple solutions to this tragedy, we would have found them by now. in the uk we gave our neighbours in france, ireland and in the netherlands an early warning and they acted promptly. we applaud them for what they did. but in a minefield the early warning is given by the first person to step on the mine and that was the uk. we have suffered greatly from that. would the commissioner confirm that this is essentially a crisis of movement? would he accept, as the chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development does not, that vaccinated animals can carry the virus? otherwise the belated decision which the commission took on 14 march to exclude argentine produce would make no sense. will he undertake with the svc to examine the problem of long-range, unrecorded animal movements in which animals are largely treated as commodities, which has been the major factor in the spread of fmd? would a carcass trade not be better for europe to be considering? finally, what is the svc's opinion of the various methods of disposal used in the uk where a million animals have now been culled? can he reject the false stories which have been put around by some in the uk that these methods were originally vetoed by the commission, if that was not the case?
mr de veyrac (s). - (fr) mr president, i should like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the commission's research and development strategy for the aeronautical industry. so let me explain how we did it. so we think that the aeronautics sector is one of the best examples of the establishment of the european research area in an industrial field. in the face of global competition and the impact of air transport on the lives of european citizens, the commission considers it necessary to improve the efficiency of the aeronautical research effort by better coordinating and integrating, around a common vision, the activities undertaken at the different levels, national, european and private. in the second half of 2000, i put together a group of leading figures from all sectors of the air transport system: industrialists and builders, airport managers, airlines, regulators, air traffic controllers, researchers, with the mission of developing this vision. the group's vision 2020 report sets out the key technological objectives for the sector over a 20-year horizon and the means to achieve them. it stresses in particular the need for better integration of research efforts currently being carried out at different levels. the report recommends the creation of an advisory council for aeronautic research in europe: acar. the acar will include representatives from national programmes, industry, the scientific community and the commission. the aim will be to establish a strategic research agenda, accepted by all the actors in the sector, which will have to influence the research priorities of the national and community programmes. the commission will make every effort to ensure that this council is set up by the middle of this year. the members of acar are expected to be appointed by the end of may, with the first meeting planned for june. a first draft strategic agenda is expected early next year. consultation of the various actors in the sector and of the member states on the competences and mandate of this acar council has begun. it has already aroused the interest of the member states, all of whom wish to participate in this initiative. the new framework programme provides for a budget of €1 billion for aeronautics and space. it proposes four priorities: competitiveness, environment, safety and capacity of the air transport system. these four priorities already correspond to the main objectives of vision 2020. to achieve these objectives, the commission proposes to use three main instruments: networks of excellence; the existing coordination at the level of research centres in the aeronautics sector should facilitate the establishment of these networks; integrated projects: this is in particular a matter of continuing and deepening the federative action of the pioneering model of technological platforms; finally, the union's participation in programmes implemented jointly by several member states and of community interest, for example under article 169 of the treaty, as we shall have the opportunity to discuss in the discussion of the new framework programme. the commission's action, which aims to stimulate coordination of research efforts at different levels in a lasting way by using the unifying effect of the instruments provided for in the framework programme, is fully compatible with the world trade organisation agreements, the research actions being highly competitive in nature.
the commissioner did not actually respond to my question as to what exactly the response has been from member state governments. also, in relation to the wto, i notice the report lays great stress on the fact that the united states makes a major contribution to domestic aeronautical research. that point is precisely at the centre of the dispute over the 1992 agreement on large aircraft construction. does not the commissioner see this programme as being yet another opportunity for us to have a dispute with the united states of america? finally, given that much of defence expenditure is now in the aeronautical area, is there a likelihood of a spill-over of this research programme into the field of defence?
commission. – i would like to go further than that, if i may. first of all, it has to be the way forward for southeast europe to turn its back once and for all on violence and the attempt to effect political change through bloodshed, mayhem, bombs and bullets. that is the path to europe. that is what i will be discussing again tomorrow when i am in croatia where they have, in my judgment, turned their faces to democracy and their backs to violence. it is the point i will be making in albania on thursday when we have the high level steering group which will be discussing the stabilisation and association process for albania. i pay tribute now to the unequivocal statements made by the political leaders of the albanian state in the last few days. but i want to go further. those who believe that we can secure peace and prosperity in southeast europe by fiddling with borders here and there are deluding themselves, and deluding themselves seriously. there is not just one presevo valley in the southeast of europe. there are, in political terms, figuratively several. so if you start fiddling with the borders here you end up fiddling with the borders everywhere. every time you do that you encourage those who think they can get their own political way by blowing up houses, buses with innocent women and children in them, or shooting police officers going about their lawful duties. i endorse what the honourable member says, but i would go a stage further. there have been excellent signs in southeast europe over the last 18 months of people coming back towards the democratic family. i took particular satisfaction myself in looking at the b92 radio station website at the weekend, which had the headline "slobo in the slammer". i thought we had come a very long way in the last few years. i know that occasionally there are problems and not everything progresses smoothly, but i very much hope that we will not lose what has been achieved in the last 18 months.
to what extent would the commissioner agree with me that the origins of the current crisis in macedonia actually lie purely and simply with the activities of criminal gangs looking to protect their smuggling rackets and taking advantage of the weak security of the border with fyrom, and that what we need to do is to tighten up on those criminals who have used the issue of minority rights as fuel to keep the fires of discontent going in order to cover up their activities? what is at stake here is that gangsters are seeking to undermine democracy and peace and stability to line their own pockets. primarily we have to take tough action to prevent that illegal activity so that the political situation can be stabilised.
commission. – i once heard somebody in another part of europe, where i was chairing a commission on policing and security, make what seemed to me to be a curious distinction between what they described as 'good honest old-fashioned crime' and political extremism using bombs and bullets. the fact of the matter is there is no good honest old-fashioned crime, but there are plenty of examples where organised criminality, organised criminal behaviour becomes interwoven with political extremism and its manifestation in organised violence. we have seen that in so many parts of europe and we are seeing it once again in parts of south-east europe, including no doubt the kosovo-macedonian and kosovo-serbia borders. while there are doubtless some who espouse political extremism for political reasons, there are others who see the advantage of cloaking criminal action – trafficking in drugs, trafficking in smuggled cigarettes, trafficking in human beings; they see political causes as a way of providing an umbrella for that criminality. whatever it is, it is wrong, it must stop, it is what the past was like in south-east europe. we must do all we can in the european union to make sure that the future is very different indeed.
is the commissioner satisfied that kfor is adequately controlling and successfully preventing movements of fighters and arms across the border between kosovo and fyrom?
mr president, last saturday i took part in a rally called "rights now" by disabled people in trafalgar square in london, where disabled speakers told us how hospital consultants denied them medical treatment because their quality of life was not equal to that of able-bodied patients. the new charging policies for social care services effectively stop them from benefiting from those essential services. whereas sexism and racism are well-known terms, disability discrimination is barely referred to in public discourse. i start my speech with this bleak assessment because in our proper desire to support the commission in their barrier-free europe communication, and mrs hermange, in her excellent response, we risk forgetting the very real exclusion from every aspect of public life which is the daily reality for disabled people in our societies. in the strong consensus we have achieved in supporting the bulk of the proposals let us remember we will encounter real conflict in delivering on the aims agreed. we welcome the european commission's proposal to make 2003 the year of disabled citizens but its impact will be diminished if the commission does not, during that same year, publish a general disability discrimination directive which offers comprehensive civil rights to disabled people in europe, similar to the american disabilities act, on the other side of the atlantic. we are pleased that the socrates programme offers additional support for disabled participants, but point out that there is a long way to go before the extra costs of disability, the provision of specialist transport, personal assistance and sign language interpreters are provided for in all mainstream european programmes to make equal participation a reality. i welcome the sign language interpretation taking place in both the chamber and the public gallery. i only wish we could see it regularly in the european parliament. we emphasise that the specialist and mainstream provision can go hand-in-hand and can complement each other, that the loss of the tied aspects of the research and development programme were not fully replaced with mainstreaming and that a specialist disability section should be allocated in the sixth framework programme now being discussed. we point out that fine words about free movement can never be fully realised until difficult issues for member states, including the protection for social security benefits for disabled workers crossing our borders, can be tackled. we watch carefully when talk about interdepartmental cooperation in the commission, on public procurement for example, shows steadfast opposition by dg internal market against awarding public contracts with full reference to companies' equal employment record. we ask the commissioner for employment to identify a clear timetable for binding disability access standards to the built environment to be established, and, equally, to ensure seamless access by disabled persons to all modes of public transport.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs hermange on an excellent report. i would also like to congratulate her for making it available in braille and through sign language interpreters. this is such a good report because of the cross-party cooperation, similar to the cross-party cooperation there was on the article concerning anti-discrimination, and because of the input from the disabled people's organisations themselves. we had 97 amendments in committee, and we have only five for this plenary session. that demonstrates how we have all worked together and particularly that mrs hermange has listened to the points that have been put to her and incorporated them into this report. i hope also that this report will act as a springboard for the year 2003, the year of disabled citizens, but hopefully we can bring forward the disability directive that mr howitt has just referred to within that year, so as to actually make a commitment to a positive disability directive. this report is about breaking down barriers for disabled people, to get rid of the prejudices that disabled people face in their daily lives across the european union. that is what we are aiming to achieve. it is disgraceful that we need this report, that disabled people are not treated like other people. we must make sure that disabled people are mainstreamed, that they are not sidelined, that they are taken into account in all sectors – in the information society, in public procurement, in employment. as mr mantovani said, the level of unemployment is three times higher for disabled people. let us hope that this report, together with the employment directive, will address that issue. we must look at all the issues. i would like to conclude by saying again to mrs hermange that she has produced an excellent report but one that we must make sure that we put into practice. fine words are one thing, making sure that in practice disabled people are treated exactly the same as everyone else is another.
mr president, tomorrow we are going to be discussing the stockholm summit which concentrated in part on social inclusion. this communication and report are very important in this context, and i too would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work she has done and the breadth of the consultation she has undertaken. these documents provide a welcome addition, as many have said, to the article 13 directive relating to equal treatment at work, which, of course, presupposes the ability to get work or rather to be offered it, and a more inclusive attitude in society. therefore, i welcome the recognition of inclusive education within this report and the wider understanding and the breaking down of barriers that we hope will come with it. i feel that many of us adults could also do with such education. inclusion, of course, should start with access to information here, access to all parts of our buildings and, as others have said but i also want to repeat, we need to extend inclusion to the freedom of movement. i would particularly recommend paragraphs 22 and 23, on this concerning the mutual recognition of national cards carried by people with disabilities. that is a frequent subject of petitions and correspondence to many of us in this house. i would also mention, as you might expect from parliament's rapporteur on the relevant regulation, the need for the exportability of disability benefits for people, not least so that they have the opportunity to meet the financial requirements for residents in some member states. the reasons for the current practice are not well understood and practice is extremely unjust in that it removes the freedom of choice which other citizens have had. i echo the calls for a further directive which really brings this into a whole rights-based approach.
mr president, it is appropriate, i suppose, that this measure has reached this plenary in world health week, with its particular emphasis on mental health. the week before last, in parliament, we were launching the epilepsy white paper. some 15 million of our fellow europeans will be afflicted by that illness during their lifetime at a cost of some eur 20 billion per year, plus the cost to the individual and families of lost income and the cost to member states of lost tax revenues. multiply that by all the diseases and disorders, physical and mental, add the impact of ending the communist system in eastern europe and the two-way cross-border movement of health problems, from environmental pollution to sexual and drug-related diseases, and the economic impact of health problems is colossal. the european union has no competence for health services, but it has always had competence for health and safety at work, and then for public health and infectious diseases which have no respect for national borders. more recently it has been given competence for health promotion and illness prevention and health impact assessments. now we have to take this forward with the reforms of our health action programme that this report suggests. i commend this report, the work of the rapporteur and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy's additions to his work. we shall raise standards of health in the european union, not by directives, but by research, education and the identification and dissemination of good practice. it will not cost the tax-payers an arm and a leg: just eur 83 million per year, if our committee position is accepted – a tiny sum for a massive challenge. we are told that the council will not accept eur 83 million per year for six years, but eur 63 million per year is what was being spent under the old programme. if you just add some 5% per year for six years, that would mean eur 83 million. if you take the commission proposal of eur 50 million and reduce it by the same amount then you would be cutting health budgets to eur 37 million in real terms when we are taking on these new responsibilities. if they do, let it be on their consciences that they voted against eur 20 million per year for health, while endorsing an annual budget of over eur 1 000 million for subsidising the growing of tobacco.
mr president, this proposal for an action programme in public health is greatly welcomed by this parliament. health is an issue which opinion poll after opinion poll shows is the number one priority for our citizens across the european union. this issue matters to ordinary people: people understand when you talk about health. as we discuss this report this evening we should never forget this. we often talk about getting closer to citizens and, with an appalling turnout across the union at the last european elections, we should never forget what is important to our citizens. as we all know, article 152 gives public health greater importance than ever before, so that health has to be taken into consideration in all european union policy areas. with this programme we can directly add value to the lives of european union citizens. by taking a horizontal approach to public health, we can make the best use of limited resources. with a rapid reaction unit to tackle communicable disease we can act much more effectively. with health impact assessments we can detect what works and what does not. with more health information for our citizens, quality of life will surely improve. although i support much of what the rapporteur proposes, i still have concern over the issue of the centre. i fear that this issue could delay the whole programme because of the legal questions surrounding the proposal. in addition, i also fear that such a centre would take away much of the budget, leaving very little for the work which actually connects effectively with our citizens. in conclusion, health connects with the citizen. we must guarantee that this proposal, which will last for the next five years, is effective. we must deliver on health and well-being. after all, colleagues, the european elections are not far away.
mr president, i welcome the statement that future spring summits are going to be sustainability summits, and thank the swedish presidency for their real leadership on this. but if we were looking at the world properly, all our summits would be about sustainability. the environmental and social effects of the liberalisation of the energy sector, for example, are sustainable issues. liberalisation alone will not help us reach our pretty meagre kyoto targets. how will liberalisation ensure that all people can afford warm homes if they do not have an adequate basic income? will the development of our trade with russia simply strip that country of its natural resources for the lowest possible price? how will this ensure its sustainable development in future? sustainability is not just a domestic issue. it is an international and inter-generational concept. if we are to take it seriously it will radically reform the european union agenda, which will make it a far more relevant and exciting one than people find at present.
president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. let me briefly comment on what has been said. first of all, i would like to thank you for the support you have given to the swedish presidency and for the work we are doing with you and with the commission, which, of course, provided us with a very good basis for the stockholm summit. so the conditions were good. i would like to comment on your remarks from two perspectives. i would like to speak first of all about external relations and then about the lisbon process, since my opening speech was essentially structured in this way. as regards external relations, i am glad that so many people here have seen that there is an ambition on the part of the presidency to get the member states of the union to really act together when they can act together. this is based on consensus, unanimity. it is known that we do not agree on all issues within the union, but on this we agree. when we can assert common principles, we must of course also act together. of course, we'll get a lot of media attention when we receive president putin. i would not be surprised if the media attention is even greater when we welcome president bush, but anyone who thinks that we are receiving these visitors in the pursuit of media attention is obviously mistaken about the basic tasks of the union. we have a duty, we have a right, to take the initiative in our relations with both the united states and russia. relations must be deepened and developed and dialogue must be open. it must be honest and it must be critical, but we must of course, in view of our size and strength, conduct this dialogue with very, very great confidence. that's what this is about. i am glad that you can see that under the swedish presidency we are striving to promote foreign policy more coherently during our term of office, also within the framework of the european union and within the framework of the council. it's not unimportant. so a few words about the lisbon process. let me comment on the debate on deregulation and liberalisation. i am the prime minister of a country that has opened up many markets, that has liberalized, deregulated. i see the positive effects of this in general, but i would be a very bad politician if i did not also see the difficulties involved in implementing such a process. it's a very big, very fundamental change. it's not easy. i have great respect for the colleagues who in their respective countries are going to start this process in a number of key areas and deal with the political debate that many of us have already had in our countries. this is not an easy debate. i think it would be a very big mistake to start forcing decisions and thus create a situation where these fundamental changes in many countries would immediately lead to national reactions of very, very great force. i therefore believe that the approach we are using in the lisbon process is superior to this kind of fundamental change in economic and political conditions. i say this as a response to poettering from the conservative group, because i can see how the process develops over time. the process is moving in the right direction, and we are driving it in a way that will ensure that we have the support of national political opinion in each country. we can never ignore that. i would also like to stress that i do not want deregulation and liberalisation but that the benefits that are created and the increased growth that occurs are used to give ordinary people the opportunity to live a better and richer life. you have to maintain this balance at all times. i am addressing those who have said that we have not taken any action against unemployment, because the approach is based on the idea that the best way to combat unemployment is through economic growth and development. without a growing production capacity, we have no chance of successfully combating unemployment. we can create different programs, shorten working hours, do a wide range of different interventions but these will always be defensive programs for the people who are most crowded. if we are to tackle unemployment in an offensive way, it must be by increasing the size of the cake as the economy develops. we have indeed drawn up the guidelines in stockholm for this purpose. several speakers have mentioned the enlargement of the union. we are currently negotiating intensively with the very active participation of the commission. as far as i can tell, the negotiations are successful, but they are not easy. my task as president-in-office of the council is to ensure that the union acquis is enshrined in the negotiations and that we are conducting the negotiations so that we can achieve a change in the legislation, markets and political systems of the countries now applying for membership. this change should make their entry as painless and successful as possible. these are difficult negotiations, and we're in the middle of them. i am hopeful that in the negotiations this spring under the swedish presidency we will achieve successes which we will be able to describe as a breakthrough. on transparency, we have an alliance between the presidency and parliament. i hope we make it. i could agree with bertel haarder's criticism of the situation. this is not a reasonable basis for political work, and we must create greater openness so that our citizens also have greater access to the information on which political decisions are based. i would also like to discuss the conditions for what the small country of sweden can do on the emu issue and other issues, but i do not intend to take up parliament's time for this. i shall be happy to return to this question in a bilateral context. the most important thing for us now is to ensure that the union's economy is in the best possible condition by the time the single currency is introduced in less than a year. we all have an interest in this, whether we participate in the exchange rate cooperation from the start or whether we join later. success, which is what we are striving for, is to the benefit of the whole of europe's economy. mr president, thank you again for the many constructive contributions and comments. i would also like to thank the commission for the good cooperation it has shown in preparation for the stockholm summit. i look forward to meeting parliament again after the gothenburg summit and i hope that we can say that we have made a step forward on enlargement, although there is still some work to be done on that point.
president of the commission. mr president, i will make a very brief reply because it is, in general terms, in agreement with the reply made by prime minister persson. the opinion of moderate optimism about this summit, but of awareness that not easy objectives have been achieved, was common to almost all the speeches, as was common to all the speeches the commitment to the need for future progress and the need, even stronger, to have an attention to the facts, to the decisions taken. i would like to add my voice to the objections and comments made by many members on the debate on decisionmaking processes, on the need to change these decisionmaking processes. the speeches by mr brok, mr poettering and mr segni in the various fields made it clear that the decision-making processes, both at the summits and in all our activities, must be subject to a very careful reform in this long review process which we have begun and which will be completed between the end of 2003 and the beginning of 2004. this is a specific commitment on the part of parliament and on the part of all of us. another general theme was also the subject of many speakers: on the one hand, the conviction that globalisation is an absolute necessity, not just a necessity but a great positive for europe; but on the other hand, there is also a justified, serious fear of certain consequences of globalisation itself. i cannot but express my deep concern to parliament that in recent years in europe the excellent economic progress and the increase in employment have been accompanied by an increase in the inequality in the distribution of income in what could be called an index of social injustice and which is not necessarily accompanied by globalisation. in fact, we can fix this and make globalization and social justice coexist and coincide. this is a very important subject because we too often confuse the two elements: we believe, that is, that from globalisation, from the opening up of our economies, there is necessarily a more unfair and more highly differentiated distribution of income. this is by no means a necessary consequence. another common feature - and this is linked to the forthcoming gothenburg summit - is a unanimous position on the kyoto protocol. this is not at all a polemic against the united states, but simply an awareness that we must act with a sense of responsibility. and we must have - as europeans - a global sense of responsibility towards all the citizens of the world. i would like to conclude with a final remark, which may seem more technical but which i think is extremely important. it is a point which concerns one of the strongest issues decided at the stockholm summit, namely the consequences of the enlargement of financial market relations and the consequent relations between parliament, the commission and the council. mr randzio-plath has rightly raised this issue, and i should like to answer it briefly in front of parliament, because it is extremely important. i would like to make it clear that the agreement reached in stockholm refers to a comitology decision, exactly reproducing the 1999 decision - in the jargon, the so-called aerosol case - including the statements contained therein and the commission's statement. the commission did not declare in stockholm that the entire securities sector should be considered as a sensitive sector, as some states have requested; the commission has, however, undertaken to avoid going against the prevailing views of the member states in the case - and only in the case - of particularly sensitive implementing measures: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the transfer of powers to the member states. parliament will be able to express its opinion on the distinction between the essential elements, the technical provisions of the measures proposed by the commission. of course, this distinction will have to be made in accordance with the normal co-decision procedure of parliament and the council. parliament will also be and should be regularly informed by the commission of the activities of the securities committee and, if it considers that the draft implementing measure proposed by the commission exceeds the powers delegated, the commission has undertaken to examine the draft implementing measures without delay taking utmost account of parliament's position. the context in which we have to decide is the codecision procedure, based on concrete legislative proposals. i wanted to mention this because i do not want this very important chapter, which was decided in stockholm - and this is the most important decision in stockholm - to be slowed down by our procedural problems or our difficulties in adopting a common position. this must not happen: we must proceed with clarity, precisely because the european citizens expect the decisions taken by the highest body, the council, to be implemented quickly, otherwise the credibility will be even less. and this will be extremely important in the gothenburg council. i hope that it will be prepared with the same diligence and openness with which the stockholm summit was prepared, because göteborg is, after all, a second act of the stockholm council itself: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but if we do not learn to do this too, all our decisions tomorrow will have to be reviewed. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, it was not only courteous of the swedish prime minister to come here, but also rather courageous. as so many speakers have said, on the economic front, stockholm was a great disappointment. once again heads of government could only agree to set theoretical deadlines for ministers to liberalise markets in the future, rather than actually set the seal on agreements that should already have been made or reach those agreements themselves. to coin a phrase, the liberalising talk is 'all spin and no delivery'. we are witnessing serious under-performance by standards which europe's socialist leaders have set themselves. it is all a far cry from the spirit of the single market when the centre right ran europe. one of the major failures of the stockholm summit was in the foreign affairs field. with the great events taking place in the world, it was as if the stockholm summit was ignoring them. for example, the general affairs council on 19 march decided once again not to table a critical motion in the united nations sub-committee in geneva, dealing with human rights abuses in china. until 1997, every year the european union did so. now the socialists are failing, it is business as usual. even more important – as mr poettering told the house earlier on, and other speakers have referred to this – last night the ppe-de group heard yelena bonner describe the situation in russia today: mr putin came to stockholm, mr persson gave him a cheque for eur 100 million, the very next week mr putin begins yet another crack-down on the media. there is now no single independent media channel in russia. this is a scandal. i am very disappointed indeed that mr persson did not take the opportunity this morning to criticise president putin for the way in which he is repressing the media in russia, the way in which democracy is being rolled back. this is our great neighbour to the east. we must deal with it on a practical and political basis, but with frankness and determination. god help us if the socialists had run europe during the cold war. (loud applause from the right)
mr president, god help us if the conservatives ever run europe again. i wish to concentrate on two issues which i know parliament considers to be of the utmost importance, namely the galileo project and the future of postal services. having the opportunity to speak in this debate gives me the chance to welcome not only the council's conclusions on the creation of a single european sky, but its determination to submit proposals on slot allocation at community airports to parliament by june. with regard to galileo it is worth remembering that this programme was actually instigated by the council in march 1998. this commitment was emphasised by the cologne council and feira when it was stated that strategic decisions had to be taken by december 2000. but then, to be blunt, the council, no doubt under pressure from finance ministers, got cold feet. i accept that the cost of galileo is around eur 3 billion, which means the involvement of the private sector is essential, but the benefits to europe in both economic and social terms will be immense. we have a commitment from the main european companies in this sector. what we need now is a political commitment from the member states not only to push ahead with galileo, but to push ahead in a positive and determined way, working alongside the private sector. earlier in the day mr poettering criticised the council for not giving a timetable for the liberalisation of postal services. i actually agree with the council on this and would remind not only mr poettering, but also commissioner bolkestein, of the position parliament took at its first reading on postal services a couple of months ago. by an overwhelming majority it voted for a controlled, gradual liberalisation down to 150 000 with no end-date for liberalisation. so when i read in the stockholm conclusions that the council wishes to work with parliament, i welcome this. but i would remind the council that parliament's position is clear, unambiguous and has been arrived at with a clear political consensus across political divides. on post parliament does not have a problem. the council does. this solution is clear: accept parliament's position, abandon the extreme policies put forward by commissioner bolkestein and i am sure we can have an agreement on the future of postal services within days.
mr president, as the uk labour delegation spokesperson on health, i would like to give an explanation of vote on the trakatellis report. although there are many good features in this report which deserve support – and we support them – given the voting list method of voting en bloc we have followed the pse position throughout. however, i would like to make it clear that the proposal for the centre mentioned in the trakatellis report gives us great concern. we feel that this proposal is ill-thought through, the cost implications ill-considered and the legal implications could possibly delay all that is good in this report. as i said last night, and i will say again, health is an issue which connects with the citizen. therefore, it is important that we get this proposal through as quickly as possible. i look forward to the second reading.
in writing. -en) i congratulate my french conservative colleague, mrs hermange, on her imaginative and constructive report. the british conservatives voted in favour of it. member states need to be much more proactive in recognising the special needs of disabled people: we hope they will fully accept the dynamic and some of the specific ideas in this report. however, we insist that this report should not be used as a lever to try to harmonise social security benefits in the eu: this must remain a matter for the member states. we particularly welcome two of the first ones today: the publication of the report in braille in three languages and the use of sign language in the debate. the epp/ed group is not just talking about the needs of disabled people, we are really doing something positive about it.
in writing. -en) i warmly welcome the report by mrs hermange on a barrier-free europe for disabled people. it is crucial that we in the european parliament support such important measures to improve equal opportunities for people with disabilities. this report calls for an equal opportunities directive covering a range of areas such as employment, education and training, transport, the information society and consumer policy. it also stresses the need to mainstream disability issues into all policies. eu heads of state and government at the lisbon and stockholm summits aspired to create the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of delivering sustainable economic growth accompanied by a quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment and greater social cohesion. however, we have a severe shortage of skilled workers in the it sector across the european union. it is certainly common sense to train and employ all our citizens to have a more skilled workforce to enable us to meet this ambition. i really believe that disabled people will be indispensable in this sector. the labour force is available, it is simply a matter of putting in place effective training and ensuring that there is no discrimination in employment. the need is there, the manpower is there - we must seize the opportunity and rise to the challenge of a new economy. i fully support measures to improve accessibility for people with disabilities in all areas, from employment to it. this will not only transform the lives of many people with disabilities, who will then be encouraged to play a full role in society, but it will also transform the eu's economy and make it truly the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, based on increased social cohesion.
the agenda calls for the continuation of the debate on the outcome of the european council meeting in stockholm on 23 and 24 march 2001, including the situation in the middle east.
mr president, on the galileo project i would like to seek some clarification from the commission and the council on important issues which need to be addressed before the definitive phase of the project can be approved. the memorandum of understanding signalling the provisional funding from private bodies of eur 200 million needs further explanation. could the commission therefore give specific examples of some of the businesses which have agreed to the funding? could the commission also confirm reports that unless a firm political decision is taken on the definitive phase by june 2001, then such engagement of funding by private industry will become obsolete? could the commission also comment in this regard on the lack of a political commitment to come out of the stockholm summit? surely vague rhetoric will not suffice when billions of euro are at stake and the deadline, according to the commission's timetable, is less than three months away? in the interests of transparency, may i call on the commission to make absolutely clear its intentions with regard to the funding of this project and whether, in the absence of substantial private-sector interest, it will fund the project solely from the eu budget, including the eur 220 million it will cost to maintain the project per annum? could the commission also provide an up-to-date breakdown of the contributions foreseen from individual member states? on development, is the commission aware that whilst the eu has been spending millions on galileo the us has been updating its existing technology? could the commission justify why galileo will only be used for civilian purposes, as it seems absurd that the eu decides to build its own satellite navigation system, yet denies its military capacity? in conclusion, launching satellites is a very expensive business. we need firm assurances that investments in the galileo project will produce an adequate return. fundamental questions and less than three months to go. unless the commission comes forward immediately with some answers on this project, we in the eu run the risk of appearing amateurish and irresponsible. i therefore urge the commission and council to consider these points. at a cost of billions to the taxpayer, to whom we are directly responsible, we are entitled to some answers.
i have received 17 motions for resolutions on the basis of rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the agenda calls for joint debate on: - two oral questions to the council and the commission (b5-0157/2001 and b5-0158/2001) by mr posselt, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the 2000 annual debate on the area of freedom, security and justice and - the statements by the council and the commission on illegal immigration and the sinking of the east sea ship off the french coast with approximately one thousand immigrants of kurdish origin on board.
mr president, our efforts to create an area of freedom, security and justice are dispersed and rather incoherent. firstly, they are spread over half a dozen sections of the treaties, from the third-pillar articles on intergovernmental police and judicial cooperation, to the provisions on asylum and immigration, to other scattered articles on fundamental rights, non-discrimination, eu citizenship and free movement. in this crucial area of creating a citizens' europe, we start with a pretty incoherent framework. our procedures are also inadequate; add to that the way in which member states have showered upon us a host of uncoordinated initiatives, and it is not surprising that two years after the treaty of amsterdam came into force, we have a lot of frenetic activity but not enough real progress. we have big issues to deal with, from a policy on immigration, to combating racism and xenophobia, to ending the huge injustice of 20 million european residents having no right of movement, because they are third-country nationals. on asylum policy, it is crucial that we absolutely respect humanitarian obligations and practise coherent thinking. how can we speak derogatorily of the 1 000 iraqi kurds in the “east sea” as illegal economic migrants, when nato members, including my own member state, are sufficiently conscious of their vulnerability to saddam hussein's persecution, as demonstrated in the past, to enforce a no-fly zone in northern iraq? we really do not have much joined-up thinking on that subject. we must change the way we work, so as to make the area of freedom, security and justice as visible to the citizen as it is politically significant. perhaps then we could have a debate which might attract a fuller chamber and convey something of the passion and vision that we heard from the president of the federal republic of germany this morning. (applause)
mr president, as the member who has the honour of chairing the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs, i would like to thank commissioner vitorino and ministers bodström and klingvall for the spirit of loyal cooperation in which they have approached the construction of the area of freedom, security and justice. progress has been made in finding ways to work together in a policy field in which the treaties are anything but satisfactory. but to say this throws some light on the difficulties we have encountered in the 18 months since the tampere summit: difficulties such as the need for separate legal arrangements in the first pillar and the third pillar; the need to cater for member states which are members of schengen and those which are not; the depressing predisposition of some member states to pile headlong into individual initiatives before institutions have fully debated an overall approach. the house that we are building for our citizens should be able to withstand an earthquake. let us lay the most solid foundations – those of the community framework in which architects, builders and surveyors work together in concert. parliament has called for an annual report on the implementation of the area of freedom, security and justice. in welcoming the report that i have just received from the presidency, i note that it is essentially a list of actions. what we will need is an assessment of the impact of measures taken. minister klingvall said it is hard to comment on the case of the “east sea” because it is a matter for individual member states. arguably that may be true for 24 hours; thereafter it is a matter for all of us. surely, minister, that is the whole point of the area of freedom, security and justice. member states must understand that this is an area in which citizens want more europe. we must rise to that challenge, not become bidders in a depressing downward auction of rights for our citizens or those arriving from elsewhere. the charter of fundamental rights is arguably the most important development that we have seen. we must incorporate it into the law of the union for there is no area of freedom, security and justice without rights and there are no rights without judges. (applause)
the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in the guidelines for participation in the third un conference on the least developed countries, adopted by the council on 22 december 2000, the union reaffirms its firm intention to make every effort to ensure that the un action plan for the sustainable development of the least developed countries and their progressive integration into the world economy contains concrete and operational policy guidelines and measures based on three factors. firstly, the active and responsible participation of national authorities, civil society, the private sector and local actors in the least developed countries. secondly, a global partnership for the least developed countries, which involves, among other things, mobilising the entire international community and increasing coordination between all those working on development issues at international, regional and national levels. thirdly, an effective evaluation of the results of the action plan adopted in 1990 and an analysis of the needs and expectations of the least developed countries, as identified in the preparations for the conference. the union's aid policy is devoted to the least developed countries in particular, through the acp/ec conventions. it should be recalled that 40 of the 49 least developed countries are also included in the acp group. the union considers that the eradication of poverty in these countries should be the central objective of the conference. the union supports the enhanced hipc initiative and its implementation, i.e. in accordance with the conditions strengthened in cologne in 1999, which imply that more countries can receive debt relief more quickly and that the focus is on poverty reduction, i.e. that the resources released by debt cancellations under the hipc are to be used to fight poverty. the union cannot accept commitments and/or obligations in terms of debt write-offs which go beyond the conditions of the hipc initiative. this means that any demand for a moratorium on debt payments before the debtor countries reach the so-called end point, and/or for a 100 per cent debt write-off at this point, cannot be accepted. poor countries that do not qualify for debt relief under the terms of the hipc initiative but are in payment difficulties are instead referred to seek debt renegotiation with the paris club, the london club or other relevant creditors. the resources released under the hipc initiative shall be used to combat poverty in accordance with the poverty reduction strategies developed by the countries. on 28 february 2001, the council adopted a regulation extending the duty-free regime without any quantitative limit to all products originating in the 49 least developed countries of the world, with the exception of arms and ammunition, the so-called 'everything but arms' initiative. the regulation entered into force on 5 march this year. the debate on this issue was initiated by the commission's proposal in october last year. i am pleased to confirm that the main principles of the commission's proposal were explicitly retained in the text finally adopted, namely that the community should take meaningful action to improve the economic situation of the least developed countries by guaranteeing free access to its markets for all such products, even if this would entail additional costs for the community. in almost all cases, this access was established as from 5 march this year. only for bananas, sugar and rice was the entry into force set at a later date. however, the key point was that a definite deadline and timetable for full market access was agreed for these products. the market will be fully liberalised for bananas from 2006 and for sugar and rice from july 2009 and september 2009 respectively. in the meantime, the duties on these three products will be reduced and duty-free quotas will be established for sugar and rice. the regulation is therefore of major economic importance for the least developed countries. but it also has an even greater political and economic significance in preparing for the next round of wto negotiations. it is of enormous symbolic value that the basis for decisions on trade is now primarily development priorities. the decision shows our partners in the wto negotiations - from both developing and developed countries - that the union is serious about its commitment to mainstreaming development issues in these negotiations. it shows that we will enter into negotiations with the firm intention of serving not only our own interests but also the interests of the most needy members of the world community, especially the least developed countries. it shows that the union is fully assuming a moral and economic responsibility which must be consistent with its position as the world's largest trading bloc.
commission - mr president, as the council presidency has just indicated, this third un conference on ldcs will take place in brussels in may. the conference will first assess the results of the action programme launched in 1990, and take stock of what has been achieved in the meantime in the areas of development aid, debt reduction, investment and trade. it will also be concerned with formulating a new programme of action for the next ten years and we agreed, by common accord with the united nations, that this conference should also consider a number of measures with immediate effect, so that it does not succumb to the temptation of resorting to too many generalizations. preparations for this conference are under way. of course, as the union is a co-host, we have a special interest in the success of this conference: the commission's troops and a number of commissioners are working hand in hand. we will try to ensure that a solid programme of action emerges from this conference, so as to provide a framework for encouraging the development efforts of these 49 or 50 countries, this, again, in the spirit of trying to give all this as concrete a turn as possible. it is for this reason that we have ensured - and we thank the commission and the swedish presidency for this - that decisions on this initiative, with the exception of arms, are taken in good time so that it can be an achievement of the may conference. this is probably the most visible matter and measure that this conference has helped to provoke and accelerate, and that is no small thing. we must now try to use this conference as a lever to encourage other trading partners in the world to improve market access for exports from the least developed countries. we are not so fond of this initiative because we think it is self-sufficient. it is clear that without an appropriate environment and other support efforts, the vast majority of ldcs are unable to make sufficient use of their trade opportunities on their own. we must therefore complement this strong signal, this effort to which we have committed ourselves, with other measures which are aimed at actually increasing the export capacity of the countries in question and helping them to integrate into the multilateral system of world trade. we therefore intend to complement this initiative with other measures, some of which are trade-related, with technical assistance in the area of administrative capacity in these countries, with an increase in what we are doing within the integrated fund which brings us together with the imf, with the world bank and with the wto in a technical assistance effort which is directed at trade issues in geneva. however, there are also other trade instruments which need to be examined to ensure that they do not either slow down or unduly restrict our market opening to the least developed countries. i am thinking in particular of all the things that are sanitary and phytosanitary standards or various barriers to trade, where we must not reduce the standards we have set because our people are asking for them, but ensure that our technical assistance efforts are actually directed in such a way that they enable these countries to cope with them. i am thinking in particular of everything that is sanitary and phytosanitary. we believe that these conditions of market access, when coupled with an effective increase in their export capacity, are likely to improve the volume of foreign investment in these countries and we would like to take this conference a step further in improving the promotion of investment in these countries, in particular through better use of existing multilateral instruments, perhaps making more active use of what is already available in terms of investment guarantees in the least developed countries. but we do not hide behind a speech that is too politically correct. we also need to be clear. it is up to these countries themselves to create a more favourable environment for investment through internal policies which we can support, which we can advise, but which are reflected in the sometimes difficult internal political decisions, and the difficulty of making these decisions is not our responsibility. in this respect, each one's role must be clearly defined. we must bear in mind that these measures, which i have just mentioned and which have immediate effect, are only part of the result. indeed, they must be there to give a certain credibility to the action programmes for the next decade. this action programme will serve as a road map. i think it is very important to have a route in this area and we must be able to control it together. i believe - and my colleagues in the commission share this view - that only by greater collective pressure can we accelerate the eradication of poverty and the promotion of sustainable development in these countries, so that perhaps we will see - to use mr miranda's expression - the end of the tunnel one day.
mr president, i want to welcome mr miranda's initiative in asking this question and i want to take this opportunity to congratulate commissioner lamy on his splendid initiative on 'everything but arms', which we were associated with in parliament, but did not have very much to do with. it must be pointed out that the poorest and the least developed countries must be given special attention and, in the process, elimination of extreme poverty should be the primary goal. according to unctad calculations, while the gross domestic product of 49 ldcs rose by no more than 0.9% per year in real terms between 1990 and 1998, worldwide gdp grew by more than 2.5% per year. good governance is a key issue in the ldcs. i would like to take this opportunity to point out that there are many countries which are nominally democratic, but where, owing to their lack of an effective and fair legal system, there is no freedom for their people. we in this parliament should promote the rule of law as an essential criterion when we look at good governance criteria. it is a matter of record also that the proportion of our aid budgets that goes to the ldcs has fallen while the proportion that goes to middle-ranking countries, such as morocco and algeria, has risen. this is absolutely wrong. the aid budget must concentrate on the poorest. that is what our citizens expect and require. using the aid budget as some sort of underhand immigration policy is wrong. have an anti-immigration policy, by all means, but be honest about it. we must not rob the poorest countries to achieve our own political ends. drastic reductions in the debt burden of heavily indebted poor countries are urgently needed as action taken so far under the hipc initiative will, as a result of falling raw material prices, be completely inadequate for any sustained financial relief. i must also stress the need to guarantee funds to be set up or topped up in order to provide incentives for greater private investment and for the implementation of measures to encourage small loan arrangements, such as those introduced by the gramien bank in bangladesh. finally, we must do everything we can to prevent conflict. conflict prevention is a key to helping the ldcs grow.
mr president, as others have already suggested, the facts speak for themselves. most of the 640 million people who live in the least developed countries, just over one-tenth of the world's entire population, are struggling to survive on less than two dollars a day. their average life expectancy is 50 years. half of them are illiterate and two-thirds of the world's children, most of them little girls, are not in any kind of primary education. ldcs have seen a severe drop in capital flows, down 45% since 1990; and official development assistance continues to go down, having fallen by 30% since 1990. as the president-in-office has said, the hipc initiative is yielding very slow results and coming in too late. too many ldcs have totally unsustainable debt burdens. many ldcs, such as zambia for example, where i was recently, are still spending twice as much on debt servicing as they are on health and education. this un conference therefore has to be about a new deal for ldcs; one that promotes pro-poor economic growth, poverty reduction and sustainable development. there will be, as mr lamy knows, a thematic session on trade, which i know he will expect to be used by the ldcs as a platform in preparation for the qatar ministerial meeting. i am sure they will give ample evidence of the fall in commodity prices – which have fallen by 30% from 1998 to 1999 – and we will need to acknowledge that globalisation and liberalisation have had very mixed results. everything but arms represents significant progress. i wonder whether commissioner lamy would be able to predict that other countries such as the us or japan might be prepared to follow his excellent lead. i think i see him smile, and this might present us with some difficulties. at this point it would be interesting to hear from commissioner lamy which ldc countries in particular are likely to export arms, as the title of this initiative is a bit perplexing. finally, this conference is about analysing what we can do that is deliverable for the least developed countries when millions of people are unable to treat pneumonia, diarrhoea, tb or aids; when you have no medicines to give to your sick child or your dying wife; when your child is at school under a tree trying to learn to write its name with a twig.
the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the members for the important contributions which have been made in this debate. i would also like to thank mr miranda in particular for his question, which gives us the opportunity to discuss in this thorough and penetrating way the important issues to be dealt with at the third conference of the least developed countries to be held in brussels next month. i hope that this conference will provide an opportunity to answer the very relevant and central question raised by maes, namely how sincere we really are in our efforts to assist the least developed countries. this is precisely what we hope the brussels conference will provide very concrete answers to, not just pretty words. i have great respect for sandbæk's description of the everything but arms decision, but i still see this decision as an important step along the way. it is an opportunity to show that the union is honest in its efforts to actually assist the least developed countries. it is an important first step which has been taken and which, as i said at the outset, shows that the union is indeed prepared to let development considerations guide the priorities in trade matters. i agree that it would have been desirable to go further, but let us not discount this first step. in conclusion, i would just like to reply to mr deva that i am glad that he has mentioned the issue of conflict prevention as an important part of our continued efforts to assist the least developed countries. the swedish presidency has made conflict prevention one of its key issues. we have also asked the council to come back to this house later this spring to discuss conflict prevention. conflict prevention will also be a major issue at the european council in gothenburg in june. i hope that this will be a reasonable response to the important point that conflict prevention and efforts to help the least developed countries are intimately linked.
commission. - mr president, i have three comments in response to the debate. the first concerns the question which the council presidency has just raised. i also think, as most of you do, that development is the result of a sometimes very mysterious alchemy, the ingredients of which are fairly easy to name but very difficult to mix. like mr deva and the presidency now, i think that peace is probably the most important of these ingredients, even before elements such as the fight against corruption. there are many more, but i would like to see us not give the impression that the developing countries have a monopoly on these problems and ills. i think we are not always immune ourselves. the 'everything but arms' initiative, mrs sandbæk, is a concrete action for which we had to fight hard under the complicit presidency of our friend leif pagrotsky in order to obtain a qualified majority. and what would you have said if we had failed in that attempt? these concrete decisions have been taken and will now be implemented. mrs kinnock asked which other countries would now follow. the list is not very comprehensive. i think the ldc conference will help to put some pressure on it. chile and new zealand have shown a good disposition. japan - we know very well - will not follow, at least at this stage, for all its imports, particularly because of its rice problems. the commission has already taken steps in the right direction with regard to industrial tariffs. finally, the united states will have to revise its system of generalised preferences this year, and we will, through the various means of lobbying we have in congress, ensure that when they revise their system of generalised preferences, they will have our own initiative in mind. i would also like to dispel any impression that we have somehow bought the agreement of the least developed countries in order to organise a round of trade negotiations which we want but which are of no interest to them. this is an impression without any foundation. firstly, this cycle is of interest to the ldcs, if only because, between the law of the jungle of unregulated international trade and a cycle of trade negotiations which will establish new rules, their choice seems to me already made. secondly, it is a question of giving credibility to our own position and showing that, within the framework of our general policy - and here i am responding to mrs maes - we are capable of taking on board and resolving internal political difficulties without any compensation in order to move in the direction we need to go. my third and final point concerns access to medicines. this point was raised by mr miranda, mrs boudjenah and mr van den berg. on this point - and i answered a question from mrs carlotti yesterday in this house on this - we in the commission have put on the table a comprehensive action plan covering both the problems of development aid funding, the problems of additional incentives for public research, and the problems of the commercial aspects of intellectual property and the availability of medicines. that master plan is now on the table. you know him, he's at your disposal. it will be discussed at the general affairs council on 14 may, in time for the conclusions of the general affairs council to be presented at the ldc conference at the end of may. so you see that from this point of view we have tried, both of us, including the presidency - which, as its representative has just said, has made it a priority - to ensure that a number of commission proposals are translated into action after they have been passed on to the council and parliament, so that we can at least approach this conference with a clear conscience.
- i have received two motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 42 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
- the next item is the continuation of the debate on the report (a5-0163/2001) by mr glinne, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the common organization of the market in bananas (com (2001) 0173 - c5-0173/2001 - syn 02) since their subject-matter is related, i raise the following questions at the same time: question no 1 by mihail papayannakis (h-0248/01) subject: crisis in the balkans as the development of the crisis in the balkans shows, the question of the recognition of the borders of many states in the region arises directly and indirectly. this is particularly the case for the borders between the fyrom and serbia, which the two countries have agreed to establish between themselves, while refusing to admit the presence of albanian forces in the fyrom itself and in kosovo. what does the council think of the current development of the situation? how does he see the acceptance of borders as a means of stabilising the crisis in the balkans? question no 2 by mr alexandros alavanos (h-0259/01) subject: uncontrolled activities of extremist organisations in the south of serbia the terrorist activities of albanian extremists in southern serbia and in the territory of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (including in areas under kfor surveillance) are now out of control. almost every day, there are reports of attacks and clashes, including with heavy weapons. the yugoslav plan for the restoration of peace in the preševo valley has so far received favourable reactions. does the council see the plan in question as an appropriate basis for opening talks? what steps will it take to ensure that the political leaders of the albanian-speaking community in southern serbia and the yugoslav authorities will engage in such talks? question no 3 by efstratios korakas (h-0306/01) subject: situation in macedonia and the risk of a new conflagration in the balkans the deadly attacks launched against macedonia by the illegal army of mercenaries of the kla - which was aided and equipped by nato - have intensified and threaten to increase destabilisation and cause a general conflagration in the balkans. it has been demonstrated that the kfor presence in macedonia is not promoting stability but aggravating instability, as confirmed by media reports that armed mercenaries are crossing german and us sectors without hindrance. all these attacks and, in general, the evolution of the situation are the result of the policy pursued by nato and the eu, which consists of "divide and rule" by stimulating and promoting nationalism and separatist tendencies and groups, with the aim of establishing protectorates in the region in order to be able to exploit its wealth and its peoples more easily. what concrete measures does the council intend to take to enforce un security council resolution 1244/99, to guarantee the territorial integrity of macedonia and to put an end to all foreign intervention in the balkans?
- as their subject-matter is related, i raise the following questions at the same time: question no 4 by brian crowley (h-0290/01) subject: international criminal court could the council state its position on the slow ratification process of the proposed international criminal court, given that the latter cannot be formally established until 60 countries have ratified the rome statute of the icc and that in february this year the dominican republic became the 29th state to ratify the statute? question no 5 by olivier dupuis (h-0299/01) subject: international criminal court in its reply of 24 october to oral question h-0763/00 written reply of 24.10.2000. the council presidency stated that '... it was also possible to envisage significant progress in the near future, as eight other member states have shown themselves relatively confident about ratification before the end of the year'. three months into 2001, only four other member states have ratified the statute. in addition, in its reply, the council stated that three other member states 'reiterated their intention to ratify (sic) but stated that they had procedural or constitutional problems to resolve'. can the council state the type of procedural or constitutional problems facing these member states, the state of progress of the ratification procedures in each of the member states which have not yet ratified (sweden, ireland, greece, portugal, great britain, the netherlands and denmark) and its assessment of the possibility of the ratification process in these seven member states being concluded on 18 july this year, the third (sic) anniversary of the conclusion of the rome conference?
- question no 6 by andrew nicholas duff (h-0251/01) is hereby referred to the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities as follows: subject: charter of fundamental rights of the european communities on 13 february, swedish minister lars danielsson told the committee on constitutional affairs that, although the charter of fundamental rights of the european union was 'solemnly proclaimed', it was not considered by the council to be binding in all its aspects. in order to avoid legal uncertainty and political confusion, could the president-in-office state which elements of the charter the council considers binding and which it considers non-binding?
the minister will be aware that the court of justice is already deploying the charter quite broadly in its jurisprudence. my worry is that we face a situation where the commission, parliament and the court think of the charter as binding but the council does not, creating a situation that can only result in political and legal confusion. will he promise that the council will at least keep the impact of the charter closely under scrutiny and review its status on a continuing basis?
the council. the council has no means of assessing the application of the special case raised by the honourable member. let me make two points. first of all: you stated that the charter was not adopted. the answer is that it was proclaimed in solemn form. secondly: as regards minority languages, another important institution, which is also geographically close to parliament, namely the council of europe, has drawn up a convention on the status of minority languages. i also think that this illustrates the importance of considering other important instruments in this field, such as the council of europe convention on human rights, in the debate on the charter of fundamental rights of the union.
the council. the member requests a repetition. i hate to repeat myself, but i am in the service of parliament. let me explain this to you. in our view, the charter is a political declaration and is only politically binding. however, much of the charter's content is already contained in binding conventions, notably the european convention on human rights. the charter adds nothing to or takes nothing away from these conventions, but it is of significance as a clarification and as a political manifestation.
question no 7 by william francis newton dunn (h-0252/01) subject: letter of intent/framework agreement what progress has been made on the letter of intent/framework agreement signed last summer by the governments of six member states to create an internal market for the acquisition of defence equipment?
i understand the technicalities and thank the minister for that. but would the council be in favour of repealing article 296 of the ec treaty, in other words, disallowing the exemption from the single market provisions and so introducing competition into defence procurement?
the council. the president of the council has no opportunity to comment on the individual case raised by the honourable member. let me just briefly explain the legal status of this agreement, since i happen to be a citizen of a country which is a signatory. the framework agreement is now subject to ratification by the signatory states. it has not yet entered into force, so even in that respect the question raised by the honourable member is not yet relevant.
- question no 8 by mr staes (h-0253/01): subject: distortion of competition by granting national economic compensation for the purchase of military equipment on 15 december the belgian federal government decided to discontinue its purchases of military equipment by granting economic compensation to flemish and walloon companies. for example, in the notification of an order for night-glass, the council of ministers states that 'the council (belgian council of ministers) confirms that future orders will no longer be accompanied by a clause providing for economic compensation'. until then, the government had tried to entrust to "belgian" companies, as far as possible, every order for the army, which amounted to billions. the compensation was always granted in a veiled manner, in a climate of protectionism and businessism, insofar as this decision-making deviates from market mechanisms. what measures does the council intend to take within the framework of the common foreign and security policy to ensure that the 15 member states follow the belgian example and put an end to national economic compensation for the purchase of military equipment?
the council. i have nothing to add to what i said in my initial reply. i must dismiss some of the unfounded claims made by the honourable member and can only say that the council has no competence to monitor or interfere in national decisions concerning the purchase of military equipment. it is the council's duty to respect the treaty. that's what we do.
- question no 9 by camilo nogueira román (h-0257/01) subject: mad cow disease and financing of the urgent measures required does the council not consider that the resolution of this serious problem should not be impeded in the short term by the limitation of the cap budget imposed by the financial perspective of agenda 2000 pending the necessary reform of the latter?
the council. i would just like to remind the honourable member that the decision on agenda 2000 of march 1999 also includes a so-called midterm review of the cap to be carried out in 2002 and 2003. i assume that the council will discuss the issues raised by the honourable member in an appropriate manner.
- question no 10 by mr jonas sjöstedt (h-0264/01): purpose: taxation of financial transactions in breach of article 56 of the ec treaty article 56 of the ec treaty reads as follows: '1. 2. within the framework of the provisions of this chapter, all restrictions on payments between member states and between member states and third countries shall be prohibited.' in its reply to question h-0024/01 written reply of 13.2.2001, the commission stated that in its view, if a member state introduces a tax of general application as originally conceived by professor tobin (the tobin tax), this tax is likely to be contrary to article 56, as well as articles 12, 39, 43 and 49 and the corresponding articles of the eea agreement, and that such a tax, if introduced at community level, is likely to be incompatible with article 57 (2) of the ec treaty, given that this article provides for the possibility of adopting restrictive measures only in a limited number of areas. does the council consider that a tax on financial transactions, known as the tobin tax, is compatible with article 56 of the ec treaty? has either member state proposed an amendment to the treaty to make a tobin tax possible?
the council. the council has not yet discussed the possibility of introducing a tax of the type once proposed by professor tobin. the commission has not put forward any proposal or other initiative in this matter for consideration by the council. as far as the second question by mr sjöstedt is concerned, as far as we can recall, no proposal was made at the last intergovernmental conference to amend article 56 of the treaty.
the council. the council cannot answer mr sjöstedt's first question, since there has been no discussion in the council of the commission's assessment to which he refers. it is true that, as mr sjöstedt says, representatives of the swedish government have stated that a tobin tax would be a sympathetic idea - a phrase used by a minister of trade known to both of us. each presidency should assess, before addressing a question, whether it is possible to reach the required consensus. the presidency considers that there are no conditions at present for such an agreement and therefore has no intention of bringing the matter up for discussion.
the council. i am not sure that it is the role of the president-in-office of the council to try to assess on behalf of the council a tax which the honourable member calls an attempt at a tobin tax. first of all, i do not think it is consistent with my role to try to make an assessment. secondly, i do not agree with the description of this tax as an attempt at a tobin tax.
- question no 11 by ole krarup (h-0265/01) subject: derogation for denmark in the field of justice and home affairs although chapter iv of the tef does not apply to denmark, a number of decisions taken under that chapter iv are taxable in denmark through intergovernmental agreements. the danish government has thus expressed its willingness to accede to the eurodac system, the bankruptcy regulations, the brussels i and ii agreements and the regulation on the publication of documents in civil and commercial matters. the danish position is based on the principle of free choice in that denmark decides on a case-by-case basis whether to subscribe or not. could the council confirm whether or not denmark is free to accede to decisions taken under chapter iv of the tef, such that certain aspects of decisions taken in the field of asylum and immigration law can be subscribed to by denmark in the future as well, while maintaining certain national provisions in other aspects of asylum and immigration law?
the council. i have little to add to my original answer. it is not possible for the president of the council to assess the content of a national debate such as that to which the honourable member refers. i have tried to explain the legal basis for the council's action. i am sorry if the honourable member considers this a boring reading of the treaty, but that is really the only thing the president of the council can do in response to such a question.
- question no 12 by mr esko olavi seppänen (h-0271/01): the council has not yet adopted the common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer. subject: remuneration of the three wise men responsible for examining the austrian question when the members of the council were preparing to abandon the so-called sanctions against austria, they appointed an ad hoc committee of three wise men to this end. when i asked the commission in writing what remuneration had been paid to these people and by which institution, the commission asked me to turn to the council. when i asked the council in writing for the same, i was told that the council did not know anything about it. how is it possible he doesn't know about this? does the country holding the presidency of the council know which body paid the salaries and for what amount? does any member state of the council have at its disposal any secret account which allows such sums to be paid without the council as a whole being informed?
the council. the council had already had the opportunity to inform him, in its reply to question no 3304 put by the same honourable member last year, that the council had not been involved in the work of this group and that the community budget had not been used in any way. austria's 14 partners in the union have borne all the costs of the mission to assess the situation in austria from their national budgets.
the council. again, i have to say that i am here as president of the council and, as the council has not dealt with the matter, i have no opportunity to provide information on the questions raised by the honourable member. however, i would like to say, aside from this question time, how much sweden and all the other countries have contributed to this from their national budgets. but, as i said, the council has no role to play in this matter and this is a question time with questions to the council.
- question no 13 by maría izquierdo rojo (h-0273/01) subject: fundamentalism against women in saudi arabiasince the laws currently in force in saudi arabia are discriminatory against women (women guilty of adultery and apostasy are respectively sentenced to be stoned and sentenced to death); more than 28 women have been executed since 1990; they are victims of discrimination by the state, which despises them; they live in segregated conditions; they are arbitrarily detained and imprisoned; they are monitored by the committee for the dissemination of virtue and the prevention of vice, also called al mutawaeen, etc.). when and how does the council intend to invite the saudi government to engage in a dialogue on women's rights?
the council. the council has not had the opportunity to discuss any specific human rights function. i would like to mention the vienna observatory, which is one of the union's instruments for monitoring the observance of human rights. the issues raised by the honourable member should be kept in mind, in particular the risk of increased religious intolerance which we see in many parts of the world. i think the council's view is that support for the universal organizations that monitor such issues is the main way of working in this area. such organizations exist primarily within the framework of the united nations.
- question no 14 by lennart sacrédeus (h-0278/01) subject: human rights in the netherlands the european convention on human rights (article 2.1 on the right to life) and the european charter of fundamental rights, solemnly proclaimed in nice on 18 december 2000 (article 1 on human dignity and article 2 on the right to life), as well as the position adopted in 2000 by the european union as a union of values in the austrian case, are fundamental documents for human rights and political positions in favour of the defence of human dignity and life. in the light of these documents and the political actions taken by the european union, is the council aware of the consequences of the euthanasia bill to be voted on in the dutch senate on 10 april 2001, has it been informed and has it considered them?
the community's responsibility in the field of public health is laid down in article 152 of the treaty. in particular, paragraph 5 of that article provides that: 'when the community acts in the field of public health, it shall fully respect the responsibility of the member states for the organisation and provision of health care.' the council therefore has no competence in the area of so-called physician-assisted suicide.
the council. this is, of course, an important question of our values that sacrédeus raises. the council's approach to these questions must, however, be based on the treaty, and the treaty is, as we see it, unequivocal on this point. this is a matter on which the founding fathers of the treaty have clearly stated that the principle of subsidiarity should apply, that is to say that it is a national matter.
question no 15 by mr josu ortuondo larrea (h-0280/01) subject: cod fishing in the north atlantic: discriminatory nature of the allocation of tacs by fishing zone the cod fishery, which is between the coasts of the basque country and norway, is organised in maritime zones in the north atlantic (international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) zone iiia, subzones iv, vi and vii and zones viiia and viiib). how can it be that the council's proposal on the management of the north atlantic hake population and its final resolution go in the direction of organising this fishery by sea areas when ices considers this hake population as a management unit which the ices advisory committee on fisheries management (acfm) advises, for scientific reasons, to manage as a whole and not by sea areas? is such a measure not discriminatory against fleets depending on their geographical location and their usual fishing zone? would it not be more fair if fishermen caught their catch in a single fishing zone within their respective fishing quotas?
the council. all assessments of quotas are based on scientific and biological advice. data are continuously collected from research vessels. the reporting of professional fishermen also plays an important role in the assessments. these factors form the basis of the recommendations of the international council for the exploration of the sea, which then constitute the biological advice to our fisheries ministers. the proposed measures are therefore based on biological facts. there is no intention to discriminate against any category of fishermen, but when you get to a situation where a stock is considered to be close to what is called commercial collapse, during a recovery phase you cannot take into account the management and distribution of the fishery.
- the next question was taken up by mr evans. i call question no 16 by mr howitt (h-0286/01): subject: council directive 2000/78/ec of 27.11.2000 on equal treatment in employment on the basis of article 13 of the treaty of amsterdam, which defines the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of disability, the council consulted the european parliament in february 2000 on the above-mentioned proposal for a directive oj l 303, 2.12.2000, p. 16. the council and the parliament endorse the definition of direct or indirect discrimination referred to in article 2 of the directive. however, it would appear that this provision was not taken into account in the general call for tenders com/a/12/98, the results of which are covered by this new directive. of the 645 on the reserve list, there are no disabled persons. there were blind people in this competition, but because of the grading system applied by the commission, which assigns a coefficient twice as high to the written and graphic tests as to the logical or oral part, there is a significant drop in the results. in that case, do you not think that this is an indirect discrimination against this group of people?
the council. the council reminds the honourable member that directive 2000/78/ec is addressed to the member states and that the date for transposition into national law by the member states has been set at 2 december 2003. moreover, the specific competition in question was organised by the commission and did not include the council, which is therefore not in a position to answer it.
mr president, the president-in-office says that it is not the council's responsibility but that of the member states. but what is the council if it is not the member states? i am not certain that is really a satisfactory answer. he also said that it does not come into operation until 2003. that may be so, but if we are working towards equal treatment for people with disabilities, people who are visually impaired, surely we have to start to make progress now and we cannot have an arbitrary cut-on date as opposed to a cut-off date. i accept that what we are referring to here is the commission, but the council also surely has some jurisdiction over what the commission is doing. the commission must have some relationship with the council, and i would hope for a more satisfactory response.
the council. the formal answer must be what i have just given. however, i agree with the honourable member that it is very important that the council, the commission and parliament do everything possible to ensure that discrimination against disabled people in employment is avoided in various ways. as recently as the stockholm european council, a special point was inserted in the conclusions at the initiative of the presidency, highlighting the need for the member states and the commission to respect in this case the full participation of disabled people in working life. this is a political call which is not legally binding, but it is yet another sign that the council is taking seriously the matter of principle the honourable member is highlighting.
- question no 17 by pat the cope gallagher (h-0288/01) subject: fisheries and the swedish presidency now that the swedish presidency has completed half its term, would the council describe how it has defended the interests of fishermen and the fishing industry, on land and at sea, during its term of office?
the council. i would remind you that i had the opportunity to outline the swedish presidency's priorities in the fisheries sector in my reply to the question at the january part-session of the european parliament. the presidency also had the privilege of appearing before the parliament's committee on fisheries on 6 february 2001, where an in-depth presentation of our priorities in the fisheries sector was given. on the one hand, the question of what the presidency has done to promote the interests of fishermen and the fishing industry is very broad and general, since it does not prioritise any measures or policy areas. on the other hand, it is also limited, because the common fisheries policy should include considerations that go beyond the interests of fishermen and the fishing industry in the present. the overriding priority of the swedish presidency is and remains to ensure the sustainable and viable development of the fisheries sector by restoring a balance between fleet capacity and fishing activity on the one hand and available fisheries resources on the other. the swedish minister for agriculture and the minister for fisheries explained in detail in february the importance of a review of the common fisheries policy, a more efficient policy for the fishing fleet after the current multiannual development programmes have expired, the development of a strategy to integrate environmental considerations into the common fisheries policy, the application of the precautionary principle and multiannual strategies for fixing total allowable catches. on 20 march the commission presented its green paper on the future of multiannual development programmes and on 16 march its communication on the integration of environmental protection requirements into multiannual development programmes. an action plan on biodiversity in the fisheries sector is expected to be available from 28 march, that is, last week. the council will also begin its debate on the commission communication on the application of the precautionary principle and multiannual agreements for the fixing of annual allowable catch quotas at its meeting in december 2000. the presidency intends to take this work as far as possible at the council meetings of 25 april and 18 june 2001. we also hope that we will be able to present elements of an integration strategy at the european council in gothenburg in june. following the council meeting in december 2000, work has progressed on the establishment of recovery plans for cod and haddock in community waters. the commission's regulations on cod in the north sea are already in place and measures for hake are under consideration, and we will soon enter the second phase in establishing improved technical measures for these species. the council has adopted a regulation laying down measures to be applied in 2001 for the recovery of the cod stock in the irish sea and will shortly adopt a further amendment to the regulation on certain technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources, which ensures greater selectivity in fishing and the protection of juveniles. the council also recently adopted a mandate for the commission to negotiate a fisheries cooperation agreement with the russian federation.
- question no 18 will be answered in writing in the absence of the author. i call question no 19 by mr fitzsimons (h-0294/01): subject: human-induced climate change last january, a united nations scientific working group in shanghai adopted a report concluding that most of the warming observed over the past 50 years must be attributed to human activities. at a second meeting in geneva, the working group concluded that current climate change, if it continues at the current rate, could have irreversible impacts, such as melting ice caps, increased river flooding in europe and increased risk of flooding and erosion in coastal regions. the greatest impact would be felt by populations least equipped to protect themselves against rising sea levels, increased disease and declining agricultural production in developing countries in asia and africa. what is the council's reaction to these conclusions?
the council. the council is of course fully aware of the appalling and deeply worrying consequences of climate change, as described in the third assessment report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change, to which the member of parliament also refers. the union's positions on this issue are well documented, not least through media coverage of the climate change issue, and the council hardly needs to remind that the european community and its member states have played, and continue to play, a very active role in the international negotiations on climate change. some of our main and repeatedly stated objectives with the ongoing negotiations are to pave the way for the rapid ratification of the kyoto protocol, so that it can enter into force by 2002, and to achieve real reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. concrete measures are also being taken within the community. in this respect, the work being carried out within the commission, such as the european climate change programme and the work based on the green paper on greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the european union, is of particular importance.
the council. the president-in-office of the european council, the swedish prime minister, wrote a letter to the president of the united states of america, together with commission president prodi, on 22 march 2001, expressing grave concern at the communications made by the us government concerning the kyoto protocol. this was then followed by a special declaration from the stockholm european council in which the european council expressed the same deep concern. the president of the council (environment), the swedish minister for the environment, and commissioner wallström, responsible for environmental matters, visited washington in the last few days to convey the union's concerns directly to the us government and to discuss how to persuade the us government to resume discussions on the kyoto protocol. i know that the swedish minister for the environment is about to land in stockholm. i have therefore not had the opportunity to receive directly from him an evaluation of the outcome of the visit, but i can assure you that the council will do everything possible to ensure that the kyoto protocol, which is one of the most important instruments in our work for sustainable development in europe, really becomes a reality and will be ratified.
- question time in the council is over. the time allocated to question time in the council has now expired and questions 20 to 28 will be answered in writing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. – mr president, i should like to begin by paying tribute to the work put in by the rapporteur, mrs sanders-ten holte, on what has turned out to be an extremely complex report, and for her patience and cooperation in taking on board a number of points which the committee on legal affairs and the internal market raised in its detailed consideration of the proposals brought forward tonight. in my remarks i would like to commend the report to the house. i believe that it will result in an increase in protection for air passengers. however, speaking from a personal point of view, there are one or two issues which remain unresolved to my own satisfaction. hence my tabling, with my colleague, mrs foster, of two amendments which reflect the need for these problems to be resolved. this basically centres around the dispute which mrs sanders-ten holte has alluded to, which originated in my own country, the united kingdom, as to the validity of the original regulation to which the new proposals relate. until this legal dispute is satisfactorily settled it is my belief that the report should be held in abeyance. this position is complicated by two factors. the first is the fact that the montreal convention, which governs matters globally, has not yet been ratified by sufficient countries to give it binding effect. nor is this likely to be the situation for some years to come. secondly, as referred to by the rapporteur, there is the issue of extra-territoriality. whilst, to a certain extent, a number of the amendments which have been proposed to the report improve the situation, there are still one or two issues which need to be addressed, in my opinion. we must avoid any regulatory imposition on airlines which, while quite rightly protecting passengers' interests, actually achieves exactly the opposite by imposing rules which render european companies less competitive than the rest of the industry. unfortunately some clauses still contained in the regulation would result in just such a scenario. i hope the house will accept the amendments as a benefit to passengers. i commend the report to the house in its entirety.
draftsman of the opinion for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. – mr president, i too, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, fervently congratulate mrs sanders-ten holte on her report, which has certainly adopted the spirit of the amendments we brought in. those amendments were directed to the improvement of regulation 2027/97 and to the consumer rights which should be asserted. i therefore particularly want to speak in support of amendments nos 1, 4, 8, 13 and 18, which have that effect. the previous speaker, from my own country – we at least carry the same passport, though we have different views – referred to the situation in the uk. it is true that iata brought the uk government to court in terms of the possible extension of powers beyond what the legal position allows. judge jowitt ruled that conflict did indeed exist between the regulation and the warsaw convention. but i would point out to my british colleague that he agreed with the uk government that article 234 of the treaty did in fact render this conflict invalid. the regulation was therefore held to be valid. iata lost their challenge and no other referral has been made to the european court of justice on this matter. i therefore regard this as a legal red herring and i would prefer to concentrate on the merits of mrs sanders-ten holte's proposals because they will give the consumer travelling by air rights which have been lost for a long time. the warsaw convention is 70 years of age. if you now find yourself stuck in an airport, with your baggage gone, your flight delayed, or perhaps cannibalised, you get this little piece of paper which tells you what your rights are under the warsaw convention. those rights are negligible. what we are doing here is extending a body of practice which will allow us to protect consumers. that is what we should be doing tonight.
mr president, i also add my thanks to the rapporteur, mr piecyk, for his excellent work. i am very pleased that he has actually ensured that the final piece of the tens jigsaw has been put in its rightful place. particularly given the fact that most world trade is by sea, it was always a great omission that the tens ports were never part of the tens decision. that is now being put right. it is even more pleasurable because the maritime sector is probably the most environmentally sustainable part of the tens network. it is a pity it has taken so long. the lesson for parliament, the commission and the council on transport matters is that in future we should be doing less, but doing it better. i hope that is the message we can endorse here tonight. it will be a welcome boost for ports across the european union. in my region, for example, the port of dover will be encouraged to switch more goods from roads to railways. ports such as newhaven will be given the welcome boost that they so badly need to try and secure a role in the future. we will all benefit from this decision but we must look to the future. very soon we will be faced with the proposal to revise the tens network in its entirety. i hope that we can ensure that those tens revisions properly incorporate the ports, ensure that there are fewer studies, more rail projects, more maritime projects and fewer roads. i conclude by again thanking the rapporteur. i hope that we can now ensure that these projects are implemented across the eu and play their part in ensuring the maritime sector reaches its full potential.
mr president, i am afraid i am going to break the consensus so far. the rapporteur has worked hard and i am therefore particularly sorry to say that my liberal group cannot unfortunately support most of his amendments. it is time to match the rhetoric about fighting money laundering with tough action. as someone who represents london, including the city of london, i am naturally supportive of financial services liberalisation. however, freedom of capital movements must not be exploited for undesirable purposes. criminal money could give liberalisation a bad name. this means financial firms have an interest in making the safeguards work but so do other professionals such as accountants and lawyers who are vulnerable to being used as inadvertent conduits for dirty money. the european parliament has itself made a strong call for the extension of a ten-year-old existing directive to cover non-financial activities and professions. as the money laundering defences of banks have strengthened, criminals have sought new ways of hiding their money. therefore it is reasonable to call for other professionals to identify their clients properly and report suspicious transactions without narrowing too much the scope of the relevant activities. we cannot therefore follow mr lehne in his amendments on accountants and auditors. turning to lawyers, they rightly get special treatment. the obligations of the directive would only apply in respect of certain financial and company law activities. my group believes that the safeguards for the lawyer-client relationship, which is absolutely crucial, is adequate in the council common position. the lobbying of lawyers' organisations against this common position has been somewhat exaggerated. therefore we, in the eldr group, will not be supporting the lehne amendments because we are extremely keen not to weaken the rules. there are some of mr lehne's amendments which are entirely sensible and we will support them but, i am afraid, not the majority.
mr president, this is a very important report and it approaches a difficult subject. despite the best efforts of the rapporteur, there will still be those who will seek to get around it and to look at every way to carry on with their dirty dealings. baroness ludford spoke quite rightly about the effects of this on the city of london and the legal profession. she is a lawyer or barrister by profession and perhaps she should have declared an interest. she will know that all of these professions and their associated professions – accountants and auditors – will look at any possibility to help their clients. those clients may be involved in all sorts of dodgy transactions. they should be covered. only by concerted effort by all those parties concerned internationally will we be able to tackle the industry of money laundering. i would like to tackle money lending as well, but that is another issue. i have been seriously lobbied by the british banks about amendment no 17, which they do not like because it tries to prevent people they do not know from paying in huge amounts of cash. this is just the sort of thing we have to tackle if money laundering is to be challenged properly. if it affects internet banking, as they suggest, then there must be other ways that they can verify the credentials of people who are applying for accounts. money laundering is linked to organised crime. we know that. it is linked to drug smuggling, terrorism and forgery of bank notes. i agree with mrs sörensen. those who are developing the euro plan to bring in a eur 500 note – approximately gbp 300, well over ten times the face value of the largest note in common usage in britain. we have a gbp 50 note which is worth about eur 80, but that is very rare. so if i were a forger i would start out now forging eur 500 notes and have a field day for the next few months until people come to terms with it. there are loopholes in this system. we must do everything we can to counter them.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs. – mr president, i speak on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market specifically on the european judicial network proposal. today in this house we held the annual debate on the european area of freedom, security and justice. oddly, this theme of our citizens' access to justice in civil and commercial matters was not mentioned. this is very strange in an internal market where we actively encourage our citizens and enterprises to travel and conduct their commerce across borders. there is therefore a heavy responsibility on us to provide access to justice when things go wrong. this proposal states that its aim is to create a european judicial area which will bring tangible benefits to every citizen. i hope it will not disappoint. it is a proposal on two levels. first, a network of judicial authorities and personnel to ease cross-border procedures in civil and commercial matters. but it is the second level that interests me: to give information to our citizens on how to pursue cross-border litigation. this is difficult and not to be contemplated without competent and specialised legal advice. our citizens are increasingly finding themselves involved in complex cross-border problems: road traffic accidents, buying property or a timeshare, actual problems that face our citizens. whilst we move towards extrajudicial remedies, we must also ensure that judicial remedies are accessible. that is why my group will support the amendment that was supported by the legal affairs committee to secure a pilot programme of access to specialised legal advice. this should be central to this network – a network of judicial personnel is one thing, but a network that really provides cross-border access to justice would be the best way to recognise progress towards a real area of justice in europe for our citizens, and this on the day of the annual debate on that subject.
mr president, commissioner, i welcome mr graefe zu baringdorf's report although i personally find it quite difficult to support in full. my view is that the common position by the commission is excellent. let me just go back to what mr pesälä has just said: what is the real problem facing the food industry today? it is usually fraud. if we look back over the recent food scares, if we look at the problem of foot-and-mouth, it was a misuse of swill feeding; if we look at the problems of dioxin, there are sufficient measures there to prevent it. it was the illegal use of an oil in a mixture. then there was sewage sludge which we had in one other member state, and bse which was all to do with changing temperatures. but the legislation is present. the first and primary position of this house is to guarantee that the commission does everything it possibly can to ensure that the present legislation and the common position are put in place and enforced. therefore, i call upon the commission, first of all, to promise us that the present legislation is enforced. turning now to the protein situation, commissioner fischler would not be surprised to hear that i would slightly disagree with his position on whether or not we grow our own proteins or import them. but could he actually give me a guarantee: i understand that the european union has regulations in place at the moment about the volume of gm crops allowed in and the percentage at present is – and i stand to be corrected on this – about 1% maximum of gm crops. could the commission now guarantee that none of the soya entering the union in current and future imports will exceed the 1% maximum? the us has strict measures and regulations on imports. we in the european union must follow these regulations and ensure that we follow the same patterns.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i am glad that you, mr jové peres, have taken the commission's proposal so positively and i would also like to thank you very much for your work. your report shows that we are actually very much in agreement on this. the community's financial contribution to the control expenditure of the member states has so far had a very positive effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. however, the new measure must be adapted to the present situation, as you have called for in your report. the amendments are as follows: the commission can fully support amendments nos 1, 2, 5 and 6. amendment no 3 seeks to add an additional recital 12 on the budgetary mechanism. i agree with you on that, there is no problem. we do not, however, consider it necessary to present the whole budgetary mechanism as a point of reference. it is also superfluous because there is no correspondence in the operative part of the decision. i cannot agree with amendment no 4, which calls for the community to bear up to 100% of the expenditure of the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards amendment no 7, the commission cannot, unfortunately, respect the proposed date of 30 june for the decision on the selection of the control expenditure to be co-financed by the community this year. the reason is that the member states should have until that date to send us their reports on control expenditure. so we have to decide afterwards. but for the next few years, we will keep the date of june 30 as our decision. i am sorry to say that the comitology procedure you propose cannot be changed. (applause from the centre)
mr president, on a point of order. i have just heard the news that one of the assistants from my office in brussels has been robbed at knifepoint, at the edge of the woods which are only yards away from the parliament building. apart from that incident, i have also had reports from my staff that they have been threatened on previous occasions near the building, both on that side and on the section between the building and the railway station, particularly in the early evening. i would like investigations to take place to improve the security for members of the european parliament and their staff in the area around our building in brussels.
in writing. - i am in favour of measures to strengthen controls on money laundering by requiring banks and the professionals concerned to inform the authorities of the names of their suspected clients. billions of pounds are lost every year in the european union through money laundering and fraud. when we think of crime, the first image that comes to mind is that of robberies, violent assaults, and knife attacks by gangs of street youths. money laundering is an 'invisible' crime; however, the taxpayer is paying the price, and that is why the guilty parties must pay. those responsible for financial misappropriation must be arrested and punished. money laundering also finances corruption, drug trafficking, human trafficking, and other heinous crimes. we must not turn a blind eye to this kind of crime. we need to put pressure on the banks and the professions concerned and encourage them to report suspicious customers to the authorities. we should even widen the scope of this proposal to cover the big players and the auctioneers at the very top of the market. madam president, this is a matter of vital importance at european level. money laundering is not confined to manchester or madrid. this plague knows no borders and the dirty money passes from hand to hand, across regions and countries. it is not enough to simply enforce british legislation. measures are needed throughout the eu. we must work together to meet this challenge. i therefore welcome parliament's efforts to prevent the financial system from being used for money laundering.
in writing. - given the seriousness of the crime problems, there is no doubt that there is a need to strengthen crossborder cooperation, networking and mutual recognition in criminal matters. however, if i have expressed some reservations about supporting this report, it is because our current approach seems to me to be dangerously biased. the debate we are having and the instruments we are voting on do not take sufficient account of the fundamental problem of civil liberties. it is the right of people accused of crimes to benefit, in all our justice systems, from the presumption of innocence until proven guilty. these rights are guaranteed by articles 5 and 6 of the european convention on human rights. experience shows, however, that the interpretation of the rights in question varies within the european union. sometimes the government departments ignore it with impunity. i ask that this problem be given greater attention. for example, when will proposals be made to introduce a 'eurobail' type system? mutual recognition should facilitate the establishment of common provisions on pre-trial parole. it is scandalous that people in many member states have to spend months in prison unnecessarily before being brought to trial. this problem must urgently be brought to the attention of everyone in this parliament.
in writing. - i congratulate my socialist colleague margot keßler on her report which extends the existing european judicial network in criminal matters to civil and commercial law. i fully support this common sense strategy which extends the system of cooperation between national authorities. not only will judicial cooperation between member states be simplified, but cross-border judicial proceedings will also be facilitated. the strengthening of judicial cooperation is an important step for my constituents in the north west, especially those who are desperate for help in a case that is happening in another eu country. for example, a young parent in the uk whose children have been abducted by the other parent and taken to france would certainly have a better chance of success if the british and french judicial services cooperated better. this also applies to the retired couple who allegedly used their hard-earned money to buy a holiday home in southern spain and had to face a legal battle in the process. it is important that this network should be part of the existing transeuropean network for the electronic exchange of data. in the run-up to enlargement, the candidate countries should also be able to participate in the contact meetings. the information will then be exchanged between england and estonia through the european judicial network, thus greatly simplifying the lives of the authorities. madam president, i welcome this enhanced judicial cooperation, which will be extremely beneficial to all citizens seeking legal advice or wishing to bring a case before the courts of any eu member state.
in writing. - this resolution clearly states that any use of preventive vaccination during the current outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease will have to be at the request of a member state. with a view to restricting foot-and-mouth disease to a part of scotland, namely around dumfries and galloway, the scottish national party has made and will continue to make a firm commitment to the continuation of the slaughter and destruction policy in order to restore the disease-free status of scotland in accordance with the international standards in force. this is essential if scotland is to maintain its world reputation as a producer of high quality meat. we have condemned the blair government's ruses which seem to serve electoral ambitions more than the public interest, and we reiterate that condemnation here. in order for me to support the resolution, it was absolutely necessary that an oral amendment be tabled extending the financial assistance envisaged to the trade and tourism sectors, where the epidemic has caused serious damage. i am glad that my amendment was unanimously accepted and that the resolution was voted with it.
in writing. - i have a problem with supporting this proposal in its current form. although i have changed my mind about emergency vaccination, the idea that it can be used without the eventual slaughter of vaccinated animals is a problem for me. clearly, the adoption of such a policy would not serve the long-term interests of the european exporting industry in the best possible way. the standing veterinary committee has made it clear that no vaccine has yet been developed which would distinguish between vaccinated and unvaccinated animals. i agree that we should encourage the development of new vaccines that give us more flexibility, better traceability and allow us to continue exporting to other countries. in addition, it is important to improve import controls throughout the eu, as it is clear that foot-and-mouth disease has been imported illegally into the uk.
in writing. - (en) even if many of the points discussed here do indeed move the agenda towards our vision of europe, we simply cannot accept the idea of a strengthening of the role of the eu's political institutions, in particular the commission, and the development of the so-called 'community' method.
in writing. - the eppo voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the stockholm european council. however, we have reservations about paragraph 13. as was the case at first reading of the framework directive on information and consultation of workers, the eplp continues to express reservations. like the uk minister for trade and industry, stephen byers, the eplp believes that it might be inappropriate to impose european legislation in the field of information and consultation. of the united kingdom, mr byers said: "the uk's business structures are based on a system which is markedly different from that of the continent. in many respects, however, the directive reflects the business management model in force on the continent and not in the united kingdom. the directive is inappropriate for several reasons, but the problem is important and we must solve it in a national context' (hansard's report of the house of commons debates of 18 january 2001)
- the agenda calls for the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - b5-0268/2001 by mr dupuis and others, on behalf of the tdi group; - b5-0269/2001 by mr frassoni and others, on behalf of the green group; - b5-0277/2001 by mr frahm and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; - b5-0258/2001 by mr mcmillan-scott, on behalf of the group of the european people's party; - b5-0294/2001 by mr haarder, on behalf of the eldr group, on the united nations commission on human rights and the people's republic of china.
mr president, china is very much in our minds at the moment following the incident involving the american ep-3 reconnaissance aircraft. this is a matter which should be resolved with great urgency by the chinese authorities before its consequences spiral out of control. the us administration has expressed its regret, which we share, particularly over the loss of a chinese fighter pilot, but now is the moment to bring this matter to an end by releasing the american aircrew and enabling recovery of the american aircraft. otherwise this matter will become a running sore, poisoning international relations at a very sensitive time. the chinese government seems anxious to play a fuller part in the international community, particularly in terms of economic development and eventual membership of the wto. but it has not yet realised the need to adjust attitudes in other areas or recognise that political confrontation needs to be replaced by a more conciliatory approach. this applies not just in the field of international relations, but in terms of domestic policy as well. it will be an enormous leap forward when we no longer have to table resolutions on human rights abuses in china but we see very little progress being made and the catalogue of abuses continues to expand. the falun gong movement is violently suppressed and some 80 of its members are reported to have died in custody in china in the past 18 months. the sustained violence and intimidation against tibetan buddhists is little short of a programme of ethnic cleansing. a great country like china is surely sufficiently robust and forward-looking that it can give real freedom to all the peoples living under its authority. it must show that it recognises the individual humanity of its citizens and will exercise the duty of good government by providing protection for all under the rule of law. we urge the council and the member states to take strong note of the likely resolution of this parliament and to support the resolution of the united states at the un commission in geneva deploring the state of human rights in china.
commission mr president, i understand that questions on this point are addressed more to the council than to the commission and that we are, in this case, only a very meagre substitute. the commission is, however, examining and investigating the problem, and we share many of the concerns that have been expressed. our position is, broadly speaking, as follows. the living conditions of most of the chinese population have improved over the past two decades as economic reform and liberalization have given citizens a degree of economic and social freedom. unfortunately - and i say unfortunately - the same is not true of civil and political rights, and the human rights situation is still far from the commitments china has made at international level. as you know, since 1996 we have had a bilateral dialogue with china which provides a framework for frank discussions, as i can testify to having attended the last summit between china and the european union under the french presidency. there have been some positive signs, such as the ratification of the un pact on economic, social and cultural rights on 28 february and the signing of the memorandum of understanding with the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights in november, which we hope will now be put into effect. but it is clear that we are concerned about more tangible results on the ground. our main concerns are the same as yours, in this case the continued repression of political dissidents, restrictions on religious freedom, the application of the death penalty, the ratification and implementation of un conventions, particularly with regard to political and civil rights, the treatment of ethnic minorities, arbitrary detention, etc. as far as the united nations is concerned, we decided at the general affairs council on 19 march this year to support the resolution on china proposed by the united states in the commission on human rights in geneva, provided that this resolution is put to the vote. we also agreed that the european members of the commission on human rights would vote against any proposal for non-action that was put forward and would campaign for other members to do the same. we believe that the very notion of inaction is totally contrary to the spirit of dialogue which we have tried to establish. we reiterated in geneva on 29 march that 'the question of the violation of human rights is a serious matter for us, wherever it occurs in the world'. as regards the question of co-sponsorship of the resolution, we believe that the dialogue on human rights between the union and china is a privileged channel for exchanges in order to work towards an improvement of the situation in the various areas of concern to us. this is the position which has been accepted by the council, because we believe it can have a positive impact. as regards this year's decision - that is to say, support for a motion for a resolution which we did not co-sponsor - this does not mean that we exclude the possibility of returning to this mechanism in the future. it is clear that dialogue is an acceptable option only if it leads to progress on the ground. this is the position adopted in january on the eu-china dialogue and in the conclusions of the general affairs council of 19 march. we shall therefore support this resolution if it is put to the vote. we do not co-sponsor it because we believe that the path of direct dialogue retains its potential.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
- doc. b5-0270/2001 by mr hautala and others, on behalf of the green group; - b5-0278/2001 by mr wurtz and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; - b5-0287/2001 by mr moreira da silva and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party; - b5-0291/2001 by mr muscardini, on behalf of the uen group; - b5-0295/2001 by mr davies and others, on behalf of the eldr group, on the objectives of the kyoto conference.
commission mr president, it is obvious that the commission, like parliament, is extremely disappointed by the rejection of the kyoto protocol which the united states has just announced. as you know, we took the initiative to condemn this decision. mr prodi and mr persson wrote to president bush on 14 march to express our indignation. mrs wallström and our colleagues in the council spent part of this week in the united states with mrs wittman and mr armitage, who are the responsible american administrative officials. we are not satisfied with these contacts, since we have also decided that the troika will hold talks with canada and will begin consultations with russia, iran, china and japan in the coming weeks. we have therefore decided to do everything in our power to keep the kyoto process on track. however, the us administration confirmed this abandonment - and therefore its refusal to ratify - and gave no indication of the content of the review of policies in the field of climate change - a review which was recently announced - or indeed of the date when this information would be made public. so the problem is deep within them. the only good news, if you will, is that at this stage no one has challenged the current state of scientific knowledge on climate change - which is a given - and the united states has indicated that it will continue to participate in future international negotiations. mrs wallström made it clear to our american counterparts that abandoning the protocol would be a mistake, and that starting all over again would not only be a waste of time but also risk breaking the fragile balance that the protocol had managed to establish between the industrialized world, which has contributed greatly to the problem, and the developing countries, whose per capita emissions are far behind those of the industrialized countries. at the same time, the union has declared its intention to continue negotiations in the framework of kyoto, even if the united states stops there. the protocol may enter into force if ratified by the union, the candidate countries, russia and japan. like mr de roo, we obviously consider that the scope of the protocol will be reduced by the absence of the most important polluter on the planet, but we cannot - and we must not - wait for the americans. we have therefore clearly reaffirmed our commitment to ratify the kyoto protocol by 2002 at the latest and we are beginning to prepare for this. this means our consistency, which is to continue our efforts to combat climate change at home. the european climate change programme that mrs gonzález referred to has now been established. it's developing. we will therefore do everything we can to advance the protocol. we will ratify it and we will make sure that we are consistent at home. you can count on the commission to continue to ensure, as mrs isler béguin has asked, that we and the union are the driving force on climate change internationally, both in the projection of what we are doing to others and in our own implementation strategy. like mrs myller, i have no doubt that both these issues will be on the agenda of the us-europe summit in gothenburg at the next european council, which you know will be mainly devoted to the environment. so this is a big next deadline for all of us.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
- the following motions for resolutions are requested for joint debate: b5-0266/2001 by mr katiforis, on behalf of the pse group, on the kidnapping of mr tsiakourmas in cyprus; - b5-0271/2001 by mr frassoni and mr cohn-bendit, on behalf of the green group; - b5-0279/2001 by mr wurtz and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; - b5-0286/2001 by mr zacharakis and others, on behalf of the ppe-de group; - b5-0296/2001 by mr davies, on behalf of the eldr group, on the abduction of mr tsiakourmas in cyprus. violence against catholic nuns - b5-0261/2001 by mr karamanou and others, on behalf of the pse group; - b5-0272/2001 by mrs sörensen, on behalf of the green group; - b5-0280/2001 by mr morgantini and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the violence against catholic nuns. pakistan - b5-0265/2001 by mr fruteau and mrs erika mann, on behalf of the pse group; - b5-0273/2001 by mr rod and mr maes, on behalf of the green group; - b5-0281/2001 by mr cossutta and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; - b5-0288/2001 by mrs martens, on behalf of the ppe-de group; - b5-0299/2001 by mr van den bos, on behalf of the eldr group; - b5-0302/2001 by mr dupuis and others, on behalf of the tdi group, on the situation in pakistan. b5-0264/2001 by mr swiebel and others, on behalf of the pse group; - b5-0274/2001 by mr lagendijk and others, on behalf of the green group; - b5-0282/2001 by mr vinci and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; - b5-0300/2001 by mr van der laan and mr dybkjær, on behalf of the eldr group, on the rights of homosexuals in namibia. the abduction of mr tsiakourmas in cyprus
mr president, i would like to express my agreement with mr katiforis. this is a really bad case of an unjustifiable seizure of a person outside the territory to which he was then taken and in which he has been illegally detained since 13 december last year. we want to take account of the fact, do we not, that turkey has advanced towards candidate status for membership of the union and that so long as we have sores of this kind weeping in the corner of the mediterranean and problems of this sort, turkey puts itself outside of reasonable consideration. this is a grievous attack on human rights, it is a totally unacceptable insult to a human being and we call for the president to let us put this resolution forward with the support of the whole of parliament.
mr president, this is a straightforward case of illegal actions. mr tsiakourmas should be released and treated properly and his case should not be a weapon in a propaganda war between greek and turkish cypriots, the latest manifestation of which is about which side has destroyed more of the other's culture. i am pleased to represent both communities as residents of london, and both deserve equal respect for themselves and their culture. i refuse to choose one side or the other. our interest is in a united european cyprus. the eu must get more engaged in the search for a political solution and it should press for mutual respect. we could perhaps give some funding to the preservation of both sides' cultural monuments. but in the meantime mr tsiakourmas must not be held hostage. illegal action is illegal wherever it happens and this case must be solved without it becoming a weapon in a propaganda war.
mr president, the tsiakourmas case should never have happened and it must quickly be brought to an end. it involves infringement of british sovereign territory and the wrongful arrest of a vulnerable individual who has no record of wrongdoing. it seems to have been an ill conceived tit-for-tat. with some regret, therefore, i have to say that we will support the resolution and i call on the turkish authorities to release mr tsiakourmas now. i have also to say that it is a pity that the resolution contains some unfortunate language. when i spoke to the greek cypriot foreign minister, mr kasoulides, last week, i said to him that now was the time to build bridges to turkish cypriots, to find ways of reducing the economic isolation of northern cyprus and to use language that might encourage support for turkish people for genuine bi-communal and bi-zonal cyprus as called for in the united nations resolutions. i say to turkish cypriots: avoid stupid incidents and get into constructive dialogue. i say to the greek cypriots: stop seizing on opportunities for confrontation and stretch out a hand of friendship.
- the next item is the report (a5-0087/2001) by mrs miguélez ramos, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on fishing: safety and causes of accidents (2000/2028 (ini)).
mr president, fishing is an activity which takes place in a naturally hostile environment, and is clearly associated with risk-taking. risks are inherent in almost every decision made by a skipper or individual fishermen: on when and where to go fishing, what gear to use, when and where to land the catch, and so on. the level of marine accidents is unacceptably high. in the uk, for example, the fatality rate among fishermen is 20 times higher than that for workers in the manufacturing industry. fishermen work in an unpredictable environment and are confronted with daily challenges from bad weather, fires on board, loss of power, poor vessel construction, poor communications and sometimes out-of-date navigation equipment. casualties at sea have, unfortunately, become an integral part of the fishing profession. but the accident toll could undoubtedly be reduced if the fishing industry and individual fishermen, national authorities, the eu and international organisations faced this vital issue with enough thought, consideration, political will and economic means. i welcome this initiative, i congratulate the rapporteur and i hope that the commission will follow up the recommendations in this report with positive action to improve safety and to reduce the number of accidents. it is also important that safety be one of the key priorities in the forthcoming review of the cfp. it is essential that we do not create a management regime which forces fishermen to go to sea when the weather is bad, for example, in complying with days-at-sea restrictions or attempting to land fish in a designated port cut off by bad weather. high prices in periods of bad weather may also drive fishermen working under quota systems out on risky fishing trips, which may be the only way to obtain the best prices for what they land against their quotas. such risks are preventable if safety forms an integral part of fisheries management. i welcome the recent developments in scotland, where changes in fishermen's safety training mean that an age exemption for older catchers will be a thing of the past and that basic sea survival, first aid and survival training will soon be mandatory for all fishermen. finally, although a gradual ban on vessels more than 20 years old can be supported, the latter part of paragraph 4 in the report says, and i quote: ". . . except for those proven to be in perfect condition". it would be better if that section read: ". . . except for those that have passed annual safety tests". it is more practical to use that language than to open up a variable definition of perfect conditions. i therefore urge members to support amendment no 6.
mr president, can i also congratulate mrs miguélez ramos on this own-initiative report. when you read the frightening statistics at the beginning of her report which indicate that some 24 000 fishermen die each year throughout the world, the huge risks involved in working in this industry become apparent. this report calls for some radical proposals such as the call to introduce a gradual ban on vessels of 20 years of age or over, which my colleague mr hudghton has just mentioned, except where they have passed stringent annual safety checks. i support this proposition. indeed such a policy might encourage participation in scrap-and-build programmes amongst those member states which have traditionally refused to take advantage of cofinancing for such schemes, and the uk is a case in point. the uk fleet is now approaching an average age of 30 years and our fishermen are being forced to put to sea in vessels which are becoming increasingly risky and accident prone. i would also like to raise a couple of additional external factors which are not covered by the report but which the commission may wish to consider. too often recently, we have seen lives lost when fishing vessels engaged in a trawl have snagged their gear on undersea cables and other foreign objects on the seabed. there must be much more stringent regulation concerning the laying of undersea power and telecommunication cables or any foreign objects on the seabed where the lives of our fishermen might be endangered. also there have been many cases of fishing vessels being dragged under or rammed by submarines. only recently we had the tragic accident involving a us submarine and a japanese training vessel where seven students lost their lives. there have been similar cases in scottish waters in recent years. there must be better coordination between fishermen and naval personnel to ensure that such accidents can be avoided. finally, many fishermen think that learning to swim is a bad omen. can i suggest that as part of the rigorous training qualifications that are being called for by mrs miguélez ramos in this report, swimming qualifications would be necessary and would save many fishermen's lives every year.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. first of all, on behalf of the commission, i would like to congratulate the committee on fisheries, its chairman and in particular you, mrs miguélez ramos, as rapporteur, on your initiative. the commission agrees with you. the safety of our fishermen must be our top priority. we have also not forgotten this in the green paper on the future of the common fisheries policy, which i shall present to you shortly in this house, and thus have already fulfilled one of your suggestions, which you have set out in paragraph 32 of the report. since 1989, the union has made a considerable effort, at the initiative of the commission, to improve the health and safety of workers in the fisheries sector. the framework directive 391/89 together with the related specific directives provides a sound legal basis. specific directives have been adopted on: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the safety of workers in the event of accidents at work, which is to be incorporated into the directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels. both the framework directive and the specific directives cover these two areas of action. however, we must note that serious accidents do happen in the fishing sector. in recent months, there have been a number of accidents, some of them fatal, and i would like to express my deepest sympathy to the families of those who have been affected. we can certainly agree with you on behalf of the commission. first of all, the member states must also implement and enforce the provisions of the directives. in relation to your conclusions, madam president, i see the need for action in the following areas: firstly, the legal framework, which is the subject of paragraphs 1 to 3 and 27 of your report. the existing directives are sufficient in principle, but these directives are minimum requirements and nothing prevents member states from adopting even stricter rules or laying down special rules for specific cases. in addition, the directives also include reporting obligations for member states with different deadlines. on the basis of these country reports, the commission will present a summary report in 2002 and, where necessary, proposals for amendments. in the meantime, we have started work on amending directive 70/97 in order to ensure a harmonised interpretation of the annex to the torremolinos protocol. secondly, in the training of workers - that is paragraphs 7, 10, 11, 15, 16, 20, 26 and 30 - the directives themselves already contain articles on the training of workers. but again, these are minimum requirements. it is therefore up to the member states to ensure implementation and, where appropriate, a higher standard. i can assure you, however, that in the report which has been announced the commission will make the training of workers in safety a central issue. but the best rules are useless if they are not followed or not followed properly. surveillance and control are a major problem. however, they are again the exclusive responsibility of the member states. we must therefore work together to ensure that they are properly applied. in addition, objective, reliable and comparable data on the causes and circumstances of accidents are a prerequisite for successful prevention. the commission has already taken an initiative to harmonize data in the relevant departments of eurostat and in the commission's employment dg. in the context of fleet renewal, i would like to remind you that all structural programmes in the fisheries sector also aim at modernising vessels. the financial instrument for fisheries guidance provides substantial funding for improving safety on board. finally, as regards the international aspects of the common fisheries policy, the commission has always insisted on compliance with the rules in force. the safety and health of fishermen on board is part of our overall strategy, both in bilateral agreements and in regional fisheries organisations, and in the fight against illegal fishing and low-cost flags. in conclusion, mr president, i can only agree with you once again. we all - the european parliament, the commission, the council, the member states and also the international organisations - must do everything we can to reduce the risk to our fishermen to an absolute minimum. the commission's initiative is an important step towards this objective. (applause from the centre)
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
- b5-0164/2001 by mrs palacio vallelersundi, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the compulsory charging of fees for certain professions, in particular lawyers.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the promotion of competition among the professions for the benefit of consumers is one of the priorities declared by my colleague mario monti. i am pleased to have the opportunity to briefly explain our policy to parliament on his behalf today. the commission shares your view that it is of the utmost importance to guarantee the quality of services, because the customer, i.e. the consumer, is often in a weaker position than the provider of these services. a system which is solely aimed at ensuring the highest quality of service without distorting competition is therefore clearly in the interest of the consumer. this applies regardless of whether the scheme is introduced by the state or by a professional organisation. the community competition rules do not therefore apply to purely statutory rules. whether a rule is a mere rule of thumb must be determined on a case-by-case basis. in this connection, account must be taken of the effects of the scheme on the freedom of action of members of the professions, professional organisations and consumers. as regards the fixing of mandatory fees or rates, it depends firstly on who fixes the fees or rates and secondly on which interests are taken into account. the establishment of uniform fees by members of a profession is in principle contrary to the competition rule. a justification based on professional ethics is not accepted. at the same time, however, member states are allowed to impose mandatory charges, but only if such charges are objectively justified on grounds of the general interest. the commission considers that this condition is met if the task and authority of the body responsible for adopting the legislation in question are sufficiently clear and unambiguous in the legislation itself and there is no room for unlawful collusion between members of the profession. the commission has, however, certain reservations as regards the interpretation of the caselaw referred to in the question, in so far as that interpretation implies that only fees set by professional associations or associations of all members of a particular profession may be subject to the competition rules. the decisive factor is the observance of existing, clear, objective and justified criteria of general interest, established by the state. these criteria must include the consideration of the interests of the consumer and not only the interests of the profession. the quality of the service should be guaranteed by other, less restrictive means than the fixing of fees. it is therefore not sufficient for a fee agreement to have been approved or confirmed by the authorities in order to be exempted from the application of the competition rules. price fixing between members of the same trade, i.e. between competitors, is in principle to be regarded as an infringement of the competition rules. furthermore, a member state may also be in breach of its obligations under the ec treaty if the legislation in question nullifies the effectiveness of the competition rules. this is the case, for example, where a state requires the profession to set uniform fees without specifying the public interest criteria to be respected. the court held that the commission had not infringed article 85 (1) of the treaty by failing to take account of the fact that the member states had not taken the necessary measures to ensure that the conditions for the application of the rules on competition were fulfilled. in the interests of completeness, i would point out that the commission does not encourage the fixing of mandatory fees, but at best tolerates them under certain conditions. in the areas where binding unit rates apply, competition must be based on quality. it is therefore important for professionals to be able to promote and advertise their areas of expertise. the court of justice has also recently pointed out that advertising is an important factor in competition in any market, since it clearly communicates the advantages of each market participant, the quality of its services and its tariffs. the court confirmed the commission's view that a ban on comparative advertising would in fact affect the ability of the more highly qualified members of the profession to develop their services further and would also have a negative effect in that the customer base would be confined to the domestic market. finally, as regards the principle of the country of origin, it should be noted that that principle contributes to the completion of the internal market. it is also enshrined in directive 5/98 of the european parliament and of the council of 21 may 1998 to facilitate the continuous pursuit of the profession of lawyer and ensures, inter alia, that a lawyer with the professional title of the member state in which he completed his training may establish himself in the host state by simple registration. the aim of the directive is to facilitate the establishment of branches and offices by lawyers practising under the professional title of their home country. in general, the commission continues to work to balance the benefits of freedom of movement that can be achieved under the principle of the country of origin against the general interest protected in the host country and recognised by community law, as certain exceptions may be justified. the commission is currently examining how to make further progress on the conditions for the crossborder provision of certain services.
mr president, first may i say that i am speaking on behalf of my colleague, lord inglewood, who is an expert on this topic and who has had to return to london at short notice. as a liberal professional myself, in this case a doctor, rather than a lawyer, i have to say that my british experience of fixed professional fees – fixed in this case by government – such as cremation fees and attendances at coroners' courts, is that they are artificially low and have tended to benefit the state rather than the professional concerned. politically i have recently been involved with asking the commission to examine the restrictions applied by british health insurers in only paying the medical fees for treatments provided within the uk and refusing such benefits to british residents who wish to avail themselves of treatment in, for example, france. last year i lobbied on behalf of a british lawyer wanting to register in france as a notaire, as non-french notaires are currently prohibited by french law, and this is an activity governed in many member states by fixed fees. currently i am my group's shadow rapporteur on emac on a proposed directive for a single market and free movement for insurance mediators, whose commissions are often fixed. therefore these concepts apply to a number of different professionals other than lawyers, as i have already mentioned. the single market is one of the major achievements of the european community and for that market to be complete it must include services as well as goods. i entirely agree with commissioner bolkestein that the services sector in europe offers huge potential growth for competition and employment which must be to the benefit of all of europe's citizens. the commission's initiative in this area is therefore one that i strongly support and in accordance with the so-called single market principles, it should be possible to introduce in one member state business models providing services pioneered successfully in another, and of course they should be subject to examination under the treaty rules on competition. i am conscious of the need for proper consumer protection across a single market, but i also suspect that many practices which have grown up over the years, through tradition and usage, may have outlived some of their original usefulness. it is very important, therefore, that a thorough inquiry be conducted which will lead to a comprehensive debate so that special privileges and practices and exemptions which may be attached to the exercise of the liberal professions – and not just the lawyers – are properly scrutinised. it is necessary to ensure that they will provide a real benefit to the citizen, and are not merely privileges supporting the vested interests of all the professions concerned.
i suppose i should start by declaring an interest as a member of a liberal profession to whom this question applies, being a lawyer. it seems to me that this week in parliament we have been lobbied hard by lawyers' organisations supporting their professional position. in contrast, last week in the uk we saw the publication of a report by the office of fair trading looking at competition in the professions, the very issue that we are looking at today. that report was based on two premises: first, that the professions are entrusted with the delivery of services of considerable public importance; but second, that any restriction on the supply of professional services will tend to drive up costs and prices and will limit consumer access and choice. that is why the group of the european liberal, democrat and reform party in this parliament has tabled certain amendments. yes, liberal professions have a special position in society, but that position and the services they offer should be enhanced by more competition and independent scrutiny. that is what we want to see the commission look at. let me give you two uk-based examples. first, price: should this be regulated? solicitors, my own profession, used to have a monopoly of conveyancing, the buying and selling of land. competition was introduced, licensed conveyancers allowed, and it drove down prices, but not standards. i experienced this myself the other week. i had to renew the lease of my office. i was bound to use my landlord's solicitors. to set up the original lease they charged me gbp 300; that seemed quite enough to me. but to vary a couple of words in the self-same document, they proposed to charge me gbp 500. that, to me, is licensed robbery by our profession. they need to be challenged. secondly, a constituent of mine recently came to me with a history of a dispute over the last 15 years. that dispute had taken him through five law firms, ruined his business and his family life, all about a debt that had actually been acknowledged in writing. he had had no help from my profession's complaints body. these are the kinds of examples that do the liberal professions no service; and sadly they are not limited or isolated. yes, professional standards can be imposed by professional bodies, but they can only be further enhanced by competition and external scrutiny. that is why i ask colleagues to support the amendments tabled by my group.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. firstly, i would point out that the commission has not only now been dealing with these issues and has not only now discovered them. the first scheme dates back to 1993. the commission has so far adopted three decisions on competition in the professions. the court of justice also confirmed the essential principles of these decisions. two decisions were against uniform tariffs which could not be justified on grounds of the general interest. in a case concerning the procedure for fixing lawyers' fees in italy, the commission is awaiting the interpretation of community law by the court of justice. this judgment will also pave the way for further action. i would also point out that the commission considers that each of the professions must be treated separately and that it is not possible to treat them all in the same way. the example you have given, madam president, from the united kingdom in connection with the medical professions is actually a proof of the need for this separate treatment. i think i have already made it clear in my introductory remarks that consumer protection is paramount.
- this debate is over. i have received a motion for a resolution tabled on the basis of rule 42 (5) of the rules of procedure. see minutes of the sitting. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 6.25 p.m. and resumed at 6.30 p.m.) the composition of parliament: see minutes.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. declarations entered in the register (rule 51) - transmission of resolutions adopted during the sitting - calendar of next sittings: see minutes. (the sitting was closed at 6.45 p.m.)
madam president, according to rule 6(6) of the rules of the procedure, committee reports concerning immunity of members shall be placed at the head of the agenda. recent events have reminded us that questions of immunity are not mere matters of form, but go to the substance of great issues of democracy in europe and you have, indeed, alluded to that yourself. are you certain that it satisfies rule 6(6) to take these issues of immunity after the commission communication which appears to have been placed at the head of the agenda ahead of the issues of immunity? is that a correct interpretation of rule 6?
madam president, as you know many of us are very concerned with the prestige and reputation of this parliament and for that reason i rise in connection with the procedures concerning the lifting of mr berlusconi's immunity. at the last meeting of the conference of presidents on 5 april this matter was referred to the constitutional affairs committee and madame garaud was invited to represent us vis-à-vis the spanish authorities. i understand that madame garaud cannot for the time being undertake that mission for personal reasons, which are fully understandable and have my deepest sympathy. nonetheless, the matter has become all the more urgent because of three new developments: first, the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, using the same procedures as us to waive parliamentary immunity, appears to be moving much faster within a deadline of only two months, and the european parliament could find itself in the unfortunate situation of being left well behind. secondly, the spanish government has transmitted a new request to the italian authorities without waiting for the opinion of the council of state of spain, which is ostensibly the reason why it has not yet replied to the european parliament. thirdly, again according to the press, the spanish anti-corruption prosecutor, carlos castresana, has written asking you to investigate the delay. in these circumstances, do you agree that it is all the more urgent to proceed rapidly? do you intend to ensure that the mission to spain takes place as soon as possible, if necessary with a different envoy? would you give us a deadline for this – would it be a matter of weeks, months or years?
madam president, it seems clear that we face in all these issues two critical imperatives: on the one side, it is vitally important that democratic deliberation in an assembly of this kind goes forward without unfair impediment or abuse of legal processes to deter members from exercising their democratic mandate properly. that is very important. on the other side, always when issues of immunity arise, the contemporary unpopularity of politicians becomes an issue and people say "politicians hide behind membership of legislative houses in order to get away with things that ordinary people are punished for doing". it is equally important and vital to avoid giving that impression. that is why it is so important in these cases that the house becomes seized as quickly as possible of the question whether what is before us is an abuse of the legal process in terrorem democratiae or whether on the other hand this is a case where something is being done which ought to be tried in the ordinary courts in the case of any ordinary citizen, for we are all ordinary citizens as well as legislators. it is very regrettable that this issue has become a matter of long drawn-out deliberation in the executive branch of a member state because that is exactly the wrong place for these vital issues to be debated. we should get them into parliament as quickly as possible. (applause from the verts/ale group)
madam president, in response to what mr poettering has said, i would just like to underline that i did not raise any question relating to your past actions. i simply asked for a deadline to be set for the mission which our parliament has agreed to send to the spanish authorities. nor did i cast any aspersions about why mrs garaud has not been able to go up to now. on the contrary, i said we fully understood those reasons, and that she has our every sympathy. i urge mr poettering in future to listen to what other members say before he decides to attack them and to distinguish between a genuine concern for parliament's reputation and procedures, and party political points. i was not making a party political point. i was making a point on behalf of this parliament.
i wish to ask your advice on raising this particular issue with the petitions committee: i wonder whether that would be in order. it is about my constituent, mark forrester, who was arrested on alleged football hooliganism during the euro 2000 championships. he was subjected, and i say subjected with good reason, to the fast-track trial procedure last year, and was convicted: it was then deemed to be unfair and he went for retrial last month. the conviction was upheld last week. i believe this fast track trial and the conviction being upheld is contrary to article 6 of the european convention on human rights. it is contrary to articles 47 and 48, of the charter of fundamental rights, which you, madam president, signed. every eu citizen has the right to a fair trial and should be deemed innocent until proven guilty. the video evidence that we saw in court showed that my constituent, mark forrester, was not involved in any way, shape or form with any violence. a further video was offered to the belgian authorities by the uk police. the belgian police refused to take that further evidence. i believe the decision by the court was more about propping up the fast-track trial procedure than about justice. mark forrester is innocent and we will carry on that fight to prove that he is innocent and to clear his name. i hope, madam president, you will help us in that endeavour.
commission. – over the past year, the commission has had numerous contacts with the un at political level. president prodi met with secretary-general annan in october 2000 and visited geneva in january this year. i have met the secretary-general and most of the heads of all the un agencies over the last 18 months. in january this year, i paid a very successful visit to new york, where the commission for the first time accepted an invitation to speak in the joint executive boards of undp, unicef, unfpa and wfp. so relations are close, and on both sides there is a strong political will to strengthen them. over recent years, a consensus on the fundamental objectives and strategies of development cooperation has emerged on the global scene. this must result in better coordination and more coherence. the ec finances activities carried out by un agencies at an average of eur 354 million per year. this is a rather modest amount compared to the globality of what we are doing. nevertheless, it is an important contribution. many un agencies, funds and programs possess reservoirs of professional skills and know-how as well as broad-based information and data systems. making better use of those assets is one of the reasons for presenting this communication. neither side has been able to draw maximum benefits from the existing cooperation. different administrative cultures and regulatory obstacles are among the reasons for this situation. i have described this situation as the war of accountants: this war is still not over but we can see solutions on the horizon. the communication sets out a number of fundamental principles for strengthening the working relationship: selectivity: the ec will be a positive, but demanding multilateral partner. the commission will seek to focus on strengthening cooperation with those un entities that work in the areas identified by the eu and where working at the community level provides added-value. predictability: by clearly setting out long-term priority areas for cooperation, both the ec and un will be able to enjoy a more predictable flow of ec financial contributions. we have to move from projects to programmes. active presence: the ec will further exploit the already extensive opportunities for active ec participation in the work of the governing bodies of priority un entities. the communication focuses on the administrative environment necessary to reach these objectives. we need: – a successful conclusion of the ongoing negotiations on a verification clause, giving the ec controllers satisfactory access to information about the use of ec funds. – a re-negotiation of the 1999 ec/un framework agreement to focus, in co-financing operations, on output-based budgeting and upstream programme funding. – a speedy council approval of the commission’s proposal on the recasting of the financial regulation [com(2000) 461 of 17 december 2000]. i would like to draw this point, in particular, to the attention of parliament. finally, the communication adopted today sends an important message to our un partners: – the ec is proposing to intensify cooperation on ec priorities that match key capabilities of un agencies. to ensure smooth cooperation on this, strong un inter-agency coordination is required. – the ec is suggesting amending legal and administrative provisions governing ec/un financial cooperation. the commission hopes and expects that this will be met with flexibility from un negotiators in recognition of the special role and status of the european community in the work of the un institutions. – the ec is proposing to provide programme funding to selected un agencies. it is a prerequisite that un agencies continue efforts to further un reform and to improve their quality of delivery. this in turn should lead to an improvement of our own efficiency and effectiveness, both in the policy and operational domain, and in turn, to a sizeable improvement in the quality and impact of ec development and humanitarian policies and activities. but let me conclude by stating one thing quite clearly: this is not about giving the un system a blank cheque! this new approach by the commission can only succeed if we can count upon active collaboration from the united nations. improving ec/un policy and operational cooperation in the development and humanitarian fields is conditional to the un strengthening in-house coordination, focusing its thematic strengths along the lines of its ongoing reform process and pursuing negotiations on the legal and financial cooperation framework. we are fully committed to upholding the fundamental principles of sound and transparent management of the resources of the european taxpayer. we will make clear to the united nations that the commission is prepared to reduce or even suspend its support to individual un partners, which fail to perform to an acceptable standard. but, to relate in a more open and cooperative manner within the un system is also an element in making our own development cooperation and humanitarian activities more efficient. there is a limit to the kind of relationship we can enter into. it is called the united nations, it is not called the united commission. we will remain different, but what we are proposing to do will improve and normalise the way we can work together with these partners also at country level and this is what we want to do.
mr president, i welcome the statement. i am sorry that the discussion about one member has taken so long that once again the discussion about the poorest countries of the world and how we can more effectively aid them has been relegated and diminished. i have personally been involved in europe's support for unhcr for un aids. it is the best quality support. i totally support what mr nielson has said about the financial regulation and given that members of other committees than the development committee are here and are part of the process for agreeing such legislation perhaps he could elaborate on that more. my questions to him are as follows: first, how will the communication actually change matters on the ground in countries so that in emergency situations better coordination takes place. secondly, how will the communication ensure that together we better meet the un goals on development, for example, halving world poverty by 2015. finally, reflecting on his point about united commissions or united nations, how far will the member states go along with this. too often in the past they have wanted to keep the european union and its institutions away from the un rather than ensuring effective collaboration. can he count on their support in achieving this communication?
mr president, i am delighted to hear what the commissioner has said about working closely with the united nations. some of the united nations programmes which deliver on the ground are very effective, and sometimes more effective, than what the european union has been doing so far. i want to ask two questions: first, what level of complementarity are you looking at when the commission is trying to set an arrangement in place to work with the united nations, or are we merely going to give the united nations the money they require and they will do the delivery on the floor? this is a point that has taken prominence in indonesia and in the jaffna area of sri lanka where the unhcr has been doing an excellent job in trying to rehabilitate and give support to people. the second question is really more broadly addressed to parliament: are we going to set up a permanent standing liaison committee of meps involved with development and cooperation to report to the general assembly of the united nations each year on our joint cooperation?
commissioner nielson's department have produced an excellent communication and programme for action for communicable infectious diseases, hiv aids, tb and malaria. it is not possible for the eu to fund that programme alone and therefore i would like to ask, is he going to take the lead in initiating and establishing a global fund in cooperation with the un and other agencies so that this can be done? i am the rapporteur for that report and i hope this parliament will put it on fast track so that it can be debated before the un international conference on the subject in the third week of june. i saw a lot of time wasted this afternoon. this is an important subject and those responsible in this house should put that on the agenda for fast track debate, so members of this house can debate it and the european parliament's view can go to that conference for consideration.
commission. – to mrs maes first, the way we want to move forward is to participate fully as a donor in funding the realisation of sector programmes that are better organised than what we have done so far at country level. it also has an impact on the demand that un organisations have to meet, when all donors are more disciplined. we are also raising the expectation that members of the un family will play their part more in consultation with other donors: this has worked with the world bank to a reasonable extent in very recent years and this is the same disciplining. as regards the humanitarian side, it is quite different. there, the main reason why we should support the un instances is that they very often have the special mandate to do things where they have access and where others may have great difficulties. we are trying to establish a balance using them and ngos. the only thing is coordination, but for example unhcr has a special mandate and we have to be careful not to leave them marginalised. mr miranda, quite frankly the commission is not proposing anything today, which would surprise those who have been discussing these issues with me over recent years. this is very much in line with what i have announced as the next logical and necessary step. we will discuss it and it is important that we try to work out the same kind of well-informed consensus on this step as we managed to do on the overall policy paper. this is part of implementing those ideas and we will both manage to do things more efficiently, also having more influence. this ability is fine, but not enough and if it is a visible pr stunt, i prefer the kind of visibility that comes from professional respect and getting real influence on the global scene. this is what we are aiming at. mr khanbhai, this discussion about the global fund is in one way easy to understand and we can quite sympathetically step up the effort against communicable diseases to the extent that the creation of this fund actually mobilises new and additional money from new private sources. we welcome it and we may also participate, but the real problem is delivery on the ground. this is where the un organisations need to answer our questions more directly and where we have to become better at actually doing things. this is the bottleneck of the fight against these diseases, not whether we are adding eur 100 million from money which is already devoted to do this job. the reality on the ground is the bottleneck and we should never forget this in this discussion. there are many fashions of the month in the discussion on these issues and i will be quite stubborn, with the support from this house, and stick to what we have defined.
may i thank the commission for an excellent initiative on our relationship with the un. three short simple questions: how in the commissioner's analysis do the priorities of the united nations differ from the priorities of the european union in terms of the way we believe that humanitarian aid should be delivered? how will the tensions which i have personally observed be overcome – the tensions which always exist on the ground between the un and the european union, and how will the new approach which you intend to adopt, facilitate a better partnership and a lessening of those kind of tensions on the ground?
i would like to thank the commissioner for the statement he has just made. one thing is quite clear: unless we get better cooperation between the donors, we will never get rid of the duplication and voids we see in aid. does he find already that we are getting better coordination with the united nations because of what he is doing? i noticed in the ninth edf that 90% of the funds will be going to the least developed countries. do you think they have the capacity to deal with such a large amount of money? and if not, are the united nations organisations helping to build that capacity? the eu policy is to move towards regional cooperation and integration. is that also a policy that the united nations organisations are following and will support?
commission. – first to mrs kinnock, as i said before, in the area of humanitarian aid the organisational problems and the challenges on how to do things are not as complex as when we look at the transitional phase and general phase. the tensions on the ground – here i would respond also mrs sauquillo's question concerning the relation between ngos and un organisations – have very often been a big problem. things are better now than they used to be. there is more of an acceptance of the need for a professional manner of work also among humanitarian ngos, and of the need and the obligation to accept coordination as part of our contracts with anybody we are funding. so from case to case it looks somewhat better today. i have already mentioned protection and security. in chechnya, the access to using radios has been discussed with the russian government since the troubles started and only now is it possible to have that additional little element of security, but without the un being there as those who can actually handle this part of the whole work, no one would ever get permission to have radios. this is good and clear and this is being discussed now more and more internationally. this is one of the aspects i mentioned in connection with the special mandate of some of these global un organisations so we need a division of labour between specialised ngos and the umbrella, in some cases, of un organisations. as a very large humanitarian donor, we need to be able to play on all the instruments available and by entering into a more structured relationship as we are foreseeing now, we shall also have a stronger voice in the discussion on these issues with the un organisations, compared to just an on-and-off donor. to mr corrie, the figure of how much we are allocating in the ninth european development fund of 90% covers both the least developed countries and the low-income group of countries. it is these two added together which is the 90%. on capacity building we need everybody who is able to do it, undp, world bank and ourselves: this is such a big job that we should not even think of doing everything ourselves. let me remind parliament that in the overall development policy paper, we have specified areas of special focus, which also means that we will frankly have to rely on others doing more in the areas where we will do less, and we have member states who will and can do this. but we also have the global system and it is in order not to exclude that type of partnership that we are doing what we are now. regional cooperation: we are using very clearly the economic commission for africa and the other relevant un players and they are extremely interested in the bold, ambitious line followed by the commission in trying to organise the geo-economics especially of africa. we have a good partnership in this and good support. finally, that part of mrs sauquillo's question dealing more or less with visibility and clarity of our policy. this is the self-confidence. we could also look at this the other way around: we have now reached the point where we have some certainty and clarity and strong support for the line that we have defined. now we feel we have the strength and maturity to discuss more globally with the un system. we were not that organised before in this field, so we are increasing the ambition of influencing what goes on globally, and this is the thought behind it.
mr president, in welcoming the commissioner's commitment to working with the un agencies, can i ask him if he agrees with kofi annan that there can be no economic health without physical and mental health, and will he work with the agencies, particularly who and unicef, to achieve that. we have heard a lot today and we will rightly hear a lot more about one of the biggest challenges, aids: two days ago, kofi annan was appealing to the world to play a bigger part in this. but there are other illnesses: tb, malaria, river blindness and the mental and neurological health area which this year was designated by the who as its key area. will he bring forward to this parliament plans to do more work in that area? mental health is the fastest growing cause of disability. for example, there are more people with epilepsy than with aids – 40 million people live with it, but only 8 million of those 40 million are treated for it. that is a disgrace to the world. we can do more. will he commit this parliament, this union, and this commission to do more as well.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0126/01) by mr maccormick, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the request for the waiver of the immunity of mrs elisabeth jeggle (imm, 2001/2031).
rapporteur. – mr president, the previous two cases we have considered dealt with issues of free speech and the conditions of maintaining robust political debate. this case raises no such issue. it is a case concerning a traffic violation, as the second to last paragraph on page 10 of my report says, "the charge against mrs jeggle relates to the offence of dangerous driving since it is alleged that when driving her car on 4 may 1999 she acted recklessly and in gross violation of road traffic regulations by overtaking another vehicle at a point that did not afford sufficient visibility to do so." we are not in any sense called upon to form a judgment on the truth or falsity of these allegations or on mrs jeggle's conduct. we are called upon only to decide whether an allegation and a trial on a matter of this kind attracts parliamentary immunity which ought not to be waived. the german authorities have rightly halted proceedings which were already quite far advanced on learning that mrs jeggle had been elected to this parliament and in due course sent a request to parliament for mrs jeggle's immunity to be waived. we come up here against what i regard as an extremely important principle: that we elected politicians ought to enjoy no special privileges over our fellow citizens. members of a democratic assembly of this kind should only not be subjected to harassment or persecution for carrying out their duties. we are agreed, mrs jeggle as fully and firmly as anybody else, that traffic offences are not covered by that principle and that parliament should never claim immunity for any of its members on a matter of this kind. mrs jeggle has passed to me word through another colleague that she is unable to be present in the house this afternoon and she wanted to assure me, and the house, that this is no intentional discourtesy on her part but an unavoidable conflict of obligations. i am very happy to pass that assurance on, because it certainly has been the case that at no point in the discussion of this matter has she in any way deviated from the view which i am putting to the house. this is not a case where parliament should insist on a member's immunity and i have no hesitation at all in reporting to the house the unanimous view of the committee on legal affairs that immunity ought in this case to be waived on the request of the german authorities.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- doc. a5-0318/2001 by mr cashman, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on public access to european parliament, council and commission documents (com (2000) 30 - c5-0057/2000 - 2000/0032 (cod)).
, rapporteur. – in november last year, i presented my report on public access to the eu institutions' documents, a subject which, as i said then, i consider crucial to the lives of the people we represent and to the future of the union. i am happy to say that i stand before you today to ask parliament to endorse a compromise text, as this house requested of me in november 2000. i, hanja maij-weggen, my ex-co-rapporteur, and all the draftsmen of opinions and some shadows for the other committees embarked on a series of meetings with the council and the commission, latterly called trialogues, in order to reach this compromise. all the various versions of the compromise text during the trialogue processes were discussed in public meetings. indeed, the trialogue process, it can be argued, has been more transparent than a conciliation process, in which only final texts of negotiations are published. the negotiations were not always easy and, contrary to what some believe, the distance between our institutions in january was great, but we fought hard to maintain what we considered to be essential elements to ensure the rights of the citizens. of course the text does not go as far as we would have liked. i am the first to admit that, but it was a priority for me and my co-rapporteur hanja maij-weggen to complete the dossier in line with the treaty deadline, so that the institutions could not be accused of failing to deliver for the citizen under article 232 of the treaty. the standpoints of the three institutions were difficult to reconcile in such a short space of time and even the council, under the wonderful swedish presidency, found it difficult to achieve a political consensus, or at least a qualified majority, within itself. nonetheless, we have a text which improves on and consolidates the status quo and delivers to the citizen, within the time frame set in the amsterdam treaty, a comprehensive and practical framework for access to the institutions' documents. it is by no means a step backwards. we have established a self-evolving text which, i am sure, will be improved upon in the course of time. the compromise text revolutionises the rights and procedures for access to documents of the institutions and sets in motion the enshrining of freedom of information in the eu and in member states' national legislation. it is the first common framework for the three institutions which recognises the citizen's rights so that the citizen no longer relies on the goodwill of each institution. access to documents regarding the activities of the institutions enables citizens to hold the eu governing bodies accountable, stimulates greater efficiency and enhances democracy. the text would not have been possible without the hard work and commitment of the swedish presidency. i would like to take this opportunity to also pay tribute to the remarkable work on this dossier that they have contributed and to that of my co-rapporteur, mrs maij-weggen, and graham watson, chair of the libe committee. of course there are some cases when documents from the institutions should not be released into the public domain. indeed, it is part of our responsibility as deputies of this parliament to protect the security of our citizens and the institutions. meps have a responsibility to ensure the vital interests of the union are protected by improving its internal security, whilst at the same time balancing the citizens' rights of access. this new regime means that every document is considered on a case-by-case basis without blanket exceptions and documents concerning security and defence are by no means excluded from the regulation. under this compromise text, the council is obliged to repeal or amend the solana decision of august 2000 so that it conforms to the principles of this regulation. there is assumption in favour of access to the public for all documents in all areas of the union's activities and access will only be denied to those in areas which directly relate to a listed exception. it has to be shown that such an exception is necessary and the disclosure would cause harm. the exceptions are therefore discretionary, not mandatory. if access is refused to the citizen, the citizen must be given the reason for refusal and there is recourse to the ombudsman and the court of justice. virtually all documents will be placed on a public register. documents from third parties will be accessible for the first time and agencies or bodies created by the institutions will also apply the regulation. if a document is excepted, or parts of the document are excepted, those parts of the document which are not excepted will be made public, and the exceptions will only apply for a limited maximum of thirty years, except in some cases. finally, each institution will produce an annual report outlining where the institution refused access and the number of sensitive documents not recorded in the register, thus ensuring a continuing review by the european parliament, and the commission will also report by january 2004 on the implementation of the principles in the regulation, thereby offering another opportunity to refine and develop access. finally, this is not the end of the beginning. this is one small step on the road to access to documents and ensuring that the european project is accountable to its citizens.
chairman of the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs. – mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, mr cashman and mrs maij-weggen without whose drive, determination and doggedness, this would not have been possible. i would like too to thank the rapporteurs of other committees for their considerable contribution. if the house approves this tomorrow, credit will be due to all of those, including mrs hautala, who helped in the process. this proposed new regulation is an important milestone on the road to abolishing unnecessary secrecy in government. other speakers have outlined its direct benefits to the citizen, but to me tomorrow's vote must mark the beginning of a change in the culture of the european institutions from secrecy to openness. many of us would have liked wider rights and fewer exceptions. some argued that delay would give us a better deal, but the overwhelming majority on my committee decided not to make the best the enemy of the good, believing that this proposed regulation gives us a framework for progress. the european parliament must now be vigilant in making sure the law is put into practice. some external critics have attacked us for not insisting on the naked civil servant. these proposals allow public officials a fig-leaf, but little more. i would like to thank the presidency-in-office, in particular, ambassador lund, for their willingness to grapple with this issue, to respect the deadline set by the treaties and to build a majority in council. it is fitting that freedom of information legislation should be adopted under the presidency of a member state which has long standing rights for citizens in this area, thanks to the farsightedness of an eminent former legislator, mr chydenius. commissioner barnier deserves the gratitude of the house for his work in the commission. in conclusion, it is said that only three legislatures in the world make their decisions entirely behind closed doors: one is in havana, one is in pyongyang, and the third is the council of ministers in brussels. (applause) we may not have broken down the doors, we may not have allowed in the tv cameras as the swedish government once wanted, but we will shine the searchlight of public opinion into the darker corners of decision-making, in the council, in the commission and here in our own house.
firstly, i offer my congratulations to the rapporteur michael cashman, his co-rapporteurs, the whole of the civil liberties committee and the swedish presidency, who have been so vital in getting us to where we are today. let me be clear. this report does not go as far as i would like. for that matter, it does not go as far as some of the pioneers in this area, in some of the ngos, would like, like tony bunyan of statewatch. it does not go as far as i hoped, but it does go further than i expected, as parliament and the swedish presidency dragged the commission and council far closer to our position than they ever expected to be. to accept what is offered here is to take a window of opportunity that is not guaranteed to remain open indefinitely. we recognise that some documents should and must remain confidential and classified, but what must not happen is that legitimate reasons of security, public safety and public protection are used to hide the merely embarrassing and misjudged. we welcome in particular the annual report that will detail the number of documents not listed from each institution, which will hopefully stop institutional creep from taking place, as year after year they add further and further categories of documents that will remain secret. we welcome the assumption of access and hope it proves just that. these processes will increase transparency, improve accountability and give citizens rights to access documents. it does not give us freedom of information, but merely freer information. the latter, however, is a goal well worth achieving. the annual reports and the promised follow-up report in january 2004 may well prove that this report, this agreement, is not the beginning of the end but the end of the beginning. as my friend hans-peter martin said, it took decades for the freedom of information act to become law. nevertheless, it is a political pleasure to be here.
rapporteur. – i rise because a damaging accusation was made that somehow we have violated the treaties by excluding smaller groups from discussions and negotiations and it is extremely important to correct this. the debate and vote on the first draft report was held on 16 november 2000. the rapporteurs were given a clear mandate by parliament for discussion with the council. the european parliament's conference of presidents also gave their clear political support. the mandate given under rule 69 of the rules of procedure was, and i quote, "to table amendments seeking to reach a compromise", in order to adopt the regulation in a single reading and within the date set in the treaty to implement article 255. the series of trialogue meetings, discussions between the council, the commission and parliament, took place from january to march 2001. all, and i repeat all, the various versions of the compromise amendments were discussed in the libe committee and following the trialogue meetings. the process has been considerably more transparent than the conciliation process and these compromise amendments were agreed on 25 april in the libe committee. at no time has any group, or any individual, been prevented from putting down amendments to put their influence into the procedure. things move on. this union has moved on. post nice, we have a security policy. it is right that we operate properly and responsibly.
mr president, the closure of the chernobyl nuclear plant has, of course, been widely applauded by members in political groups in this house, but it could have happened earlier and the reasons why it did not are instructive. the ukraine does not wish to increase its dependence of supplies from russia and therefore it wished to complete the reactors at khmelnitski and rovno and in their eyes we have been rather slow in operating the memorandum of understanding that was concluded in 1995. however, the decision to make the euratom loan available to complete those reactors marks a very important step towards improving eu/ukraine relations because the loan agreement marks the willingness of ukraine to operate its nuclear plant to safety standards equivalent to those in the european union. it is one thing talking about the operational standards of safety, the other important aspect is the regulation of the industry. i am pleased that the commissioner made such reference to the support that we give to regulators throughout eastern europe, because this is the area that gives us the greatest concern. it is not in any way to challenge the competence of the regulator or his staff in ukraine. it is a question of the power of the regulatory body to authorise start-up procedures to ensure stoppage for maintenance and to be the final arbiter for loading and restarting. there is still an outstanding need to satisfy the west that the status of the regulator in ukraine, and in some other eastern european countries, is equivalent to western practice: it certainly should be established before k2 is finally commissioned. paragraph 12 of the joint resolution calls for closer cooperation and dialogue between ukraine and the european parliament on energy-related matters. this is crucial to building up the ukraine economy, because structural and technical improvements are also needed in the gas, oil and coal sectors and while the commitment of ukraine to improving energy efficiency and developing renewable energy sources is welcome, the dominant factors for the foreseeable future will be fossil fuel and nuclear power. it is essential that this parliament, its committees and its delegation to the ukraine are linked into the work of the subcommittee of the political cooperation agreement which handles energy and environment issues. parliament should also be kept fully informed of progress in the shelter construction, the decommissioning of the site and the completion of the two reactors. these are the pressing practical matters which must follow from the voting of this resolution.
mr president, we will probably never know the real ecological, biological, psychological and economic magnitude of the chernobyl disaster. as well as the deaths and the terrible illnesses in the region, 15 years on there is still a frightening legacy of radioactive contamination. an area about the size of britain is permanently contaminated and uninhabitable. much less tragic, but serious even so, in my constituency in wales, following contamination from chernobyl, 359 farms are still under restrictions today and thousands of sheep are restricted from movement to ensure that no animal contaminated with radioactivity enters the food chain. there has been continuous monitoring for 15 years and the restrictions will last for another 10-15 years. we must have sustainable energy policies. nuclear power is no solution. it is not clean and it is not cheap. in over 40 years of operation the nuclear industry has not even solved the problem of radioactive waste and, above all, it poses massive threats to human health and the environment. nothing illustrates that better than chernobyl and we have to learn from it. we may never know the full impact of the disaster but we must make every effort, as outlined in this resolution, to find out all we can and provide effective assistance to help the worst-affected areas.
i would like to start by congratulating mrs cederschiöld on her excellent report and the recommendations contained therein. of course the circulation of the euro will have both positive and negative impacts. the positive is that it will be a physical recognition of the union moving together closely when it actually benefits individual member states. the negative aspect of course is that a new currency is open to abuse and to undermining by the expert counterfeiters that we have already heard of. the euro is of enormous importance in the world markets, and therefore it is vital that we move to take protective measures to prevent counterfeiting. i am pleased that mrs cederschiöld makes such recommendations in her report and i personally and my group support these. it is worth noting, on the obligation to make checks at banks and bureaux de change, that she encourages close cooperation between member states, the european central bank, national central banks, europol and, when established, eurojust. also, she makes important reference to previous decisions on increasing criminal penalties, and calls for the harmonising of criminal charges and penalties. it is absolutely essential that we leave no hiding-place for criminals, who can move very quickly with their information and their expertise from one member state to another. it is also essential to pool and centralise information, and expert analysis when such counterfeiting comes to light. technical assistance to facilitate the coordination of investigations is also needed if we are to track down these criminals across the member states. equally, i applaud her recommendations to improve and facilitate cooperation between investigative and prosecuting bodies of the member states, and that every member state should recognise the principle of previous convictions. whether in the euro zone or not, i maintain that every citizen within the european union has much to gain from a stable currency and a currency that can withstand the threats from the counterfeiters. therefore i am extremely pleased to congratulate mrs cederschiöld on her report and the recommendations contained therein.
i apologise to mrs cederschiöld for mistiming my arrival and arriving after much of the debate. we had an opportunity in the committee for me to have an exchange of views with mrs cederschiöld about her report. i would like to congratulate her on the overall thrust of the report. my concerns are twofold, however. first, i am concerned about the size of the larger notes, particularly the five hundred euro note that is going to be issued, which is far larger than the largest note in common use in the united states, in the united kingdom and in japan. it obviously makes it attractive for counterfeiters, if they are going to counterfeit notes, to counterfeit large denomination notes, rather than smaller denomination notes and i am slightly concerned that this very large note will, if you want, make the euro the counterfeiter's currency of choice. secondly, at the same time, of course, it will enable those people engaged in money laundering – i know this is not a report on money laundering, but it is a connected issue – to also move their ill-gotten gains around fairly easily and fairly simply. the amount of money that can be put into a small suitcase will be roughly ten times larger than it would have been if we had restricted the currency to smaller notes. there is a threat and an opportunity with the introduction of the euro. firstly the threat is the counterfeiting and clearly, if that happens, it will drive people away from the euro, will have dire consequences for its use around the world if people are badly stung by that, but secondly, we have an opportunity at this period of time to actually catch people engaged in money laundering, as they make the change. we do not have, or we do not apparently have in place, any mechanism across the european union to try and take advantage of that opportunity, or to try and deter at the point of introduction of the euro the threat of counterfeiting. it is all very well having something up and running later, but if i was organised crime, the time which i would be trying to engage in counterfeiting on a large scale would be around the period of introduction of the euro when you are going to have four hundred million people in the european union and billions of people around the world who have never been familiar with the notes themselves. so i think that there is a threat there and i hope that the commission and the european central bank, although it is probably too late to consider whether to issue a five hundred euro note, will actually consider whether they should issue it at the beginning of the process when there are so many dangers attached to it.
we have two reports concerning the treatment and transport of animals: that will be a very familiar subject for the commissioner. i would like to say at the outset – and i am sure that the chairman of the committee will say the same – how much we regret the absence of dagmar roth-behrendt tonight. she is one of the most energetic, enterprising and intelligent members of the committee. she is the coordinator for our group on the environment, public health and consumer protection committee and, in her general enthusiasm, she is like a one-woman congress of berlin. she is in berlin tonight and is to have an operation in the morning. i am sure the whole house, even at this late hour, would join with me in wishing dagmar well, and believing that she will recover with her customary vigour in the very near future. dagmar roth-behrendt intended to move one of the two amendments tonight. i would like to say briefly why i and my group now believe that it would be for the better passage of this directive if it goes through unamended. that would mean, therefore, that we would wish to vote against both amendments no 1 and no 2: amendment no 1 for the very simple reason that it smacks of a desire to scuttle back into a form of neo-protectionism, but certainly over-regulation, of animal imports, which is a desirable but unnecessary consequence of the many scares we have had in recent years. in my country we are particularly aware of that, but we believe that the oie code covers trade in live animals and will protect countries which do not have bse from introduction of the disease. additional measures against imports are not justifiable on health grounds and i expect that the commission will say the same thing. even more briefly, on amendment no 2, which did indeed come in my name: at that stage, we tabled this because we believed that if there was to be a vote through this parliament for tests at twenty-four months in all the member states quasi-imposed upon them by the commission, this needed to be amended with a provision that those member states which already have other forms of testing – or in the case of the united kingdom, the over thirty-month cow – should not have to go through that procedure. given that the principal amendment fell, it seems to me now that the second amendment should fall also. so, from the point of view of my group, we are not supporting any amendments.
rapporteur. – mr president, the purpose of this regulation is to ensure consistency by 2002 in the rules governing the non-commercial movement of pet animals, which has been commonly labelled the pet-passport scheme. the fact that this proposal has been brought forward by the commission represents a remarkable achievement in action taken to control rabies. the success of the vaccination campaigns against rabies have led to a fall in the number of cases amongst cats and dogs from nearly 500 in 1991 to just 5 in 1998 and it is because of that success that we have seem the partial abolition of the six-month quarantine system in the united kingdom and sweden. it is the problem of rabies, which has prevented consistent rules being adopted up until now, and so member states have dealt with the movement of pet animals in very different ways, so i am sure that a uniform set of rules will be very welcome. the commission measures are based largely on the british scheme and they allow for the easier movement of cats and dogs within the eu and certain third countries on condition that they can be identified by electronic chip or tattoo, that they have been vaccinated and that their immunity has been checked more than six months prior to travel. the proposal also allows the free movement of insects, fish and some other animals. it is very important that there is scope within this proposal for certain member states to vary the provisions when special circumstances make that necessary. the commission proposed both article 37 and 152(4)(b) as a double legal base. however, as the regulation refers only to pet animals and to the adoption of veterinary measures to protect health, the environment committee agreed that the regulation should be based only on article 152(4)(b) which relates to public health and which covers rabies. the committee on legal affairs agreed with this view as again the proposal concerns only the movement of pet animals and its aim is the protection of public health. i hope that we can reach agreement on the legal base. the key points of debate in committee were first the use of tattoos and electronic identification systems. tattoos can cause problems, they can become difficult to read or they can be altered. in contrast, the use of electronic chips are more effective both in terms of identification, but they are also a much more humane method because the animal does not need a pain reliever or a tranquilliser. therefore, in the long-term we believe that microchips are preferable, but we have to take account of the fact that a number of member states at the moment accept tattoos under their national legislation and so a transitional period of 8 years is proposed by the committee for the phasing out of the tattoos. similarly, it is proposed that during this transition period the countries which do not accept tattoos as a valid form of identification at the moment can still require electronic microchips only. amendment no 8 refers to the need to state clearly in this proposal that puppies and kittens cannot moved until they have reached the age for vaccination and other requirements because there is misconception about this. if this scheme is to be successful, it is crucial that it is operated effectively. the use of specified iso transponders would help achieve this. similarly, the capacity to record the name and address of the animal owner would assist in combating trafficking in pet animals, and clarification of the anti-rabies vaccine is included in the report as well as the oie international animal health code again for the purposes of effectiveness of the proposal. another issue that we discussed in committee is that of quarantine and the purpose of amendment no 9 is to clarify that animals from third countries at risk of rabies which are brought into sweden, ireland or the uk, the so-called sensitive countries, via another member state have to remain in that country for at least six months before travelling to those three countries. this of course removes the need for quarantine, but it also provides the extra safeguards that those countries require. a controversial issue has been that of ferrets and whether or not they should be included in this regulation. the commission proposal includes ferrets in the category of pets which would not require any specific animal health requirements. there have been very different views on this, but the view of the environment committee is that this would pose an unacceptable risk and ferrets should therefore be removed from annex i, part b. finally, it is very important that detailed information is available for consumers and for staff at eu borders to ensure they are familiar with the requirements. my aim in drafting the report has been to retain the positive and essential elements of the commission's proposal whilst at the same time taking account of the requirements of certain member states. we heard a lot in the previous debate about confidence, and confidence in this scheme is essential for its successful operation and the amendments are designed to improve the commission's texts to this end.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs evans, not only on the work she has put in on this, but her very fair and lucid summation of the proposal as it left committee. what we have here is that critical balance between public health requirements and common humanity. humanity forces us to consider the suffering of those who have to leave cherished pets behind when they travel throughout the european union. we call this the "whisky and soda" reform in britain, not because it was conceived in some drunken evening in sanco but because those are the names of commissioner patten's two dogs which for many years he had to leave behind in france when came back to england and he was the principal sufferer – certainly in terms of publicity – who has brought about perhaps a change of thinking in our part of the world. i just want to mention three critical areas: first, the time scale; mrs evans has accepted now that we have a time scale for the changeover of 8 years, which seems to me to be effective given the life span of most pets in moving from tattoos with all their weaknesses to a proper system of microchips. i do not personally think that in amendment no 7 where there is a proposal that we have to have an absolutely universal system of iso standard microchips, that you can expect all animals fitted with a chip to be of that universal variety in the early stages. we have to be a little more lenient there. secondly, i am delighted that we have now effective proposals, which i am sure the commissioner will accept for the quarantining of animals which come from third countries where rabies is endemic – the indian subcontinent would be a case in point. people do move about, their animals move about and we know from other considerations, which are now taking part in another debate on vaccination which is going on with the import and export of foodstuffs, how many things come into and out of the european community, which are putting us at hazard. we do not want that in this case and so it is very important that the quarantine provisions remain. finally, ferrets. the ferret trust have been following me around over the last few days in a state of great excitement about the provisions on ferrets. in the uk, for sure, there are still some doubt whether you can actually prove the vaccination of a ferret sufficiently to be certain that it could be vaccinated and then be safely transferred as a pet from one country to another. the ferret trust told me, very temperately, that they thought the determination of whether ferrets should be included in the pet passport scheme should be deferred until further research had been carried out and they quote two us authorities, dr bruce williams and dr zack miller, as experts in that field. i would happy to go along with that. i have nothing against ferrets, but i would think that even a small risk that rabies may be spread by even such an exotic source as this needs us to give further pause for thought and consideration, rather than simply rushing ahead with a proposal about which at least one member state still has serious reservations.
mr president, we should recognise that this report is a celebration of the fact that the war against rabies is being won across europe. this is a disease which has filled people with fear and horror for many years and it is a delight to see the reality of the decline in statistics which shows that the disease is now being eradicated. i am also pleased, as mr whitehead has indicated, that the suffering and grief felt both by pets and by pet owners when animals have had to be put into quarantine for lengthy periods of time is now being replaced by passports and tattoos, so this is good news. on a technical point, i look forward to hearing the commission's response on the amendments which have been moved about the legal basis for this directive. i am also delighted that the basis for the european proposals are those which have already been applied in britain. as mr whitehead has said, i have learnt, like he, a great deal more about ferrets than i knew a month ago. i am sure the commission has too. i am sure in fact that the commissioner is a great ferret fancier: if he has not got a house already full of ferrets then i am sure that the many newspaper articles about the virtues of ferrets have encouraged him to fill his house with ferrets i have no doubt they will make charming and affectionate pets and i look forward to them taking their place alongside cats and dogs at the earliest opportunity. the decision we made in committee, just a couple weeks ago, about whether ferrets should be included on the list and have passports or not, was one of the most difficult that i have ever made. the reality is that ferrets seem to have caused no particular problems. one french ferret apparently seems to have been the cause of all the concern about whether ferrets can cause rabies. i am sorry about this, but i look forward to a situation where the blood test for rabies antibodies can be verified and approved by the standing veterinary committee and the scope of the regulation can be extended to encompass ferrets at the earliest opportunity. in the meantime, we have to accept that if we are to put the fight against rabies as our first priority, then ferrets should not be included on the list at the present time. but i look forward to ferrets having the right to roam across europe, but not just yet.
mr president, as mr katiforis said introducing his admirable report, the facts before us reveal a state of affairs which nobody would have predicted a decade or so ago. it is a matter of great satisfaction to everybody in europe and in this house that this should be the caseso, although i dare say it is wise to be, as both he and mr von wogau are, only cautiously optimistic. pride often comes before a fall and we had better not be too proud too soon. i agree very much with what mr katiforis said about the question of public investment. the united kingdom seems to have adopted an attitude of quite excessive horror about public investment, and i noticed that in yesterday’s guardian newspaper mr bob kiley, who ought to know, was predicting that the london underground for which he is responsible, will, because of the government’s insistance on the 'public-private investment partnership' whereby only private financiers are to come forward to invest, make the tube worse and more expensive than it would have been under a programme of sensible public investment. i only wish that mr katiforis' words would be attended to in my own country. as has been said in the course of the debate, there is a matter of serious concern about the future pension liabilities of all the member states. i speak with a certain interest since my own next birthday will be my sixtieth and i would be very glad, therefore, if we were to carry amendment no 4 recommending the creation of special funds to deal with the future overhang of pension liabilities as that is one of the troubles that may beset us. but i welcome the report on behalf of my group and give mr katiforis our thanks and support.
the british conservatives, like other centre-right parties across the european union, are committed to properly-funded and high-quality public services and, if elected in june, to a massive increase in public spending of around gbp 62 billion on essential services like schools and hospitals. we therefore welcome paragraph 6 but we have reservations about the rest of the report, in particular paragraph 4, because we cannot agree that the 'golden rule' is a good example for europe to follow. it is merely one of the many ways in which gordon brown succeeds in fiddling the figures. this report and the stability and growth pact in the convergent programmes are clear evidence of the link between tax-and-spend policies and monetary policy. the pact applies to all eu member states but the legal penalties are only applicable to those states in the euro zone: that is at the heart of our reservations about this report. one of the reasons why we oppose the united kingdom joining the euro zone is because we wish to keep the power to set taxes, budgets and spending decisions in the hands of democratically-elected national politicians. within the euro zone it is not surprising that constraints have been imposed on public spending decisions because if you have, to all intents and purposes, a joint bank account you are affected by the spending decisions of others and you can expect to want some control over those spending decisions. the recent example of ireland is a salutary reminder that by joining the euro a country takes on more than a single interest rate: its tax-and-spend decisions will no longer be decided solely in national capitals. it is a prospect which most people in the united kingdom view with disquiet, the prospect of following a budget by the chancellor of the exchequer, ecofin, the commission or the ecb informing that chancellor that he or she is not permitted to increase spending on schools and hospitals and those services which are of such huge value to the people of the united kingdom. this has already happened in ireland and it could happen in the united kingdom. but i would urge that the real route to economic prosperity in europe is, as mr karas eloquently stated, structural and economic reform which will lead to sustainable prosperity, an increase in employment and a reduction in unemployment.
rapporteur. – it gives me great pleasure to present this report to the house on behalf of the industry committee. this is an own-initiative report by the industry committee and therefore it is a privilege to work on what are a relatively select number of these reports and to be the custodian on behalf of my committee. i would like to take the opportunity to thank all the colleagues who have contributed to this report and those who helped me in industry and in the commission to make sure that we covered the ground thoroughly. i was pleased that the final report reflected all those contributions and was adopted unanimously by the committee. i hope that it will get the same level of support from the house today. this report sends a strong political signal to the commission and council that this parliament wants this crucial area – the evolution of the next generation of internet and electronic communication – to be reflected in the crucial decisions on research support that are about to made in the context of the framework six programme. i know that a number of colleagues who will contribute here today are also actively involved in this programme. i would like to address the three key questions that i tried to answer in my report: why is this so important? why do we use the word initiative in presenting this to you? what do we want to look at and how are we going to achieve it? first i think the strategic importance of electronic communications and the internet are increasingly well understood by everyone in this house. but what is the contribution for commission and publicly-funded research? this report argues that there is a strong case for supporting pre-competitive work in the next stages of the evolution of this technology and that pre-competitive work will underlie the future competitiveness of all the industries and service providers who are engaged in this crucial business, and governments as well. with the adoption of the gsm standard in mobile telecommunications, we have seen how important pre-competitive work is in setting in place the standards, protocols, and architecture for the next and evolving stage of communications. it is clear why we should do it but what do we need to do in that context? we need to anticipate the technologies that will be needed in a world where the capacity of the whole distribution system for electronic communications is going to be far larger than it is today. that investment is going in now and will continue to go in, so we should plan for a world with a very large amount of bandwidth capacity: that is the jargon we would use for saying the carrying-capacity of the wires or the airwaves that are communicating users to users and users with service suppliers. the architecture that we should develop will be very different from the architecture we have today where carrying-capacity is constrained. one of the core areas proposed in this report is to ensure that we use the research network that the commission is already funding – the géant network – to use that effectively by supporting projects that will exploit that very high carrying-capacity research network in anticipation of the whole infrastructure evolution that in future will be driven by the market place. that is the core of the system architecture, but alongside that there are other public policy areas where we want to do research. issues of security and data protection are clearly important. they are becoming more and more important as our personal data are so easily and quickly circulated. it is also becoming more important because, in the wireless connected world, we will increasingly have more devices feeding information about ourselves, houses and cars into the system. there will be a new type of personal data that is being used in a benign way to monitor the operation of our car and the security systems in our house, but if somebody could accumulate and collect that data it would be a far from benign use of it. data protection therefore needs to be thought of differently, encapsulating data together so it cannot be amalgamated in an unauthorised way. we need to think about the new opportunities afforded by wireless technologies, how the amount of information carried in our personal devices or mobile phones can be used in commercial transactions, but also about carrying our health records around with us in case of emergency and about areas where highly confidential data will be distributed. we also need to think about the new products that will allow wireless technology to carry things like video broadcasts, access to streamed broadcasts that could be passing through and around us: how, for example, could we access our local television station wherever we are in the world, and how would we pay for that? that technology is something that will give us a real competitive advantage. i have just sketched out the 'what' areas of my three questions, so let me conclude by saying 'how' we would like to move this forward. this is a contribution to the debate on research policy in framework six programme and our vote today will enable that to move at exactly the right time into the ongoing strategic discussion process. we need to ask the commission, in taking this forward, to look at building a network of excellence around these technologies. although this is one of the areas contained in the commission's plans, it is clearly a priority for this particular field of technology. we are also looking for the sort of integrated projects involving the public and private sector that the commission envisages in its proposal. in conclusion, i warmly commend this report to the house today and i would just emphasise again the importance that parliament attaches to ensuring that the commission takes this forward in its future strategies.
mr president, first can i congratulate malcolm harbour, the rapporteur, on his own-initiative report on the next generation internet: the need for an eu research initiative. the degree of support for the report is indicated both by the fact that it was adopted unanimously in committee, and by the fact that there are no amendments. the house certainly appears to be fully in support. in the socialist group, we particularly support the high priority given to making sure that we include in the sixth framework programme work on the next generation internet, and that we develop a broad-banded infrastructure capability and a new super fast trans-european research network. we want to make sure that eu research initiatives complement market-driven research, thereby avoiding conflict or duplication. there are, however, at least four areas that are in need of clarification: first, in paragraph 2, we talk about the need for pre-competitive research. we agree that it should be pre-competitive, not uncompetitive, which may be a different term. the model we see is the japanese model on research cartels where people work together during the development of a new technology before they go off and compete with each other when it gets close to the marketplace. secondly, in paragraph 7, we talk about it being technologically neutral. that is fine, provided that is not an excuse for inaction where we wait for the technology to be determined. we need to feed into that process and be flexible, but we also need to be active. thirdly on system security, it is clear that we need to be able to protect this internet generation, and the next one, in terms of enabling people to engage in cash transactions and to transmit confidential information. i hope that the commission will look at both the technology and the legislation that is needed to ensure that the necessary levels of encryption can be put in place to protect the public, without aiding the criminals. finally, the key issues of universal access. the commission will have to ensure that we achieve this and that it is available to everybody, and not just those living in urban areas.
the admirable report by malcolm harbour invites us to look at our research initiative and we particularly welcome and support that aspect. one point always needs underlining. the kind of research needed here will include scientific research – research in physics, research in it – but will also include socio-economic and legal research because of the points covered, particularly in paragraph 13, where we are dealing with these vital issues of privacy and data protection. we will need to make sure that we have the regulatory mechanisms right and deal properly with the risks and threats as well as getting the technological fixes done correctly. can i also underline a point arising out of clause 9 which mr hyland made: i am just back from a visit to the outer hebrides during the constituency week. we can, with these technologies, cancel the disadvantages of the periphery and we can therefore turn round the age-old tendency of depopulation of our remote areas provided that we make available, for example, abundant low-cost expanded high band-breadth infrastructures with access on equitable terms. we must ensure that the outlying places are brought into this.
commission. – mr president, first i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr harbour, for his excellent initiative. the commission very much appreciates the continued interest which the european parliament and its committee on industry, external trade, research and energy has expressed in the development and establishment of an information society in europe. indeed, in drawing up its reports on the next generation internet, the industry committee has given a clear indication of the vital importance of the future development of this networking infrastructure. the timing of the foreseen adoption of this report is very well chosen since the commission is currently preparing the forthcoming communication of specific programmes implementing the sixth framework programme for research and technological development in which issues included in mr harbour's report will be addressed. next generation internet, will be realised through developments in both technology and policy. for europe to remain competitive, it is first of all imperative to ensure a rapid and continued growth of the internet as the key infrastructure for the global knowledge economy. it is equally important for new policy measures to be taken as required in order to cope with the rapidly evolving development of the internet world. we have a number of instruments and resources – e-europe, european research areas, the rgd framework programme, e-content, ten telecom, structural funds – to ensure a rapid development of the next generation internet. appropriate coordination of our activities with those of the member states and other european institutions will ensure that ambitious targets are pursued to the benefit of all europeans and that access to new services is guaranteed also to those with special needs such as the disabled and the elderly. as the main instrument available in europe, the framework programme will support the research towards the development of the next generation internet. that work is already being supported through the current fifth framework programme and will be strengthened in the sixth framework programme. let me give some examples of our support to the next generation internet: first, a strategic initiative on the ibv6, the next generation protocol, has recently been launched by the commission and an industry-led task force has been created. this will contribute to the rapid and continued evolution of the internet and will also ensure that europe's competitiveness in wireless technologies is not jeopardised in the long-term. moreover, through ibv6, europe will be ready to provide the required connectivity to those billions of devices that will constitute the nervous system of the future information society. secondly, significant success towards the deployment of new electronic infrastructures has been achieved through the géant project, a pan-european network covering both eu and associated countries. thirdly, the commission takes good note of parliament's call to be more ambitious in implementing the géant project, as various members have just indicated. the aim is to provide highly advanced connectivity and services in europe's national research and education networks at a level that allows them to play a leading role in cutting-edge research allowing the géant to involve from 2.5 gigabits to 10 gigabits per second and thereafter to 100 gigabits per second in the coming years. fourthly, playing a central role in global cooperation with similar regional activities world-wide, for example the internet ii initiative in the united states, canet4 in canada and so on, géant will provide the multiplier effect from which major infrastructural projects benefit. in the sixth framework programme for rtd, and of course our continuous liberalisation of telecommunication markets, the commission is seeking to ensure that the infrastructure needed to support development of next generation internet services in europe is available. it will directly support the research needed to allow development of new technologies in areas such as photonics, advanced software and hardware, and interfaces etc. those research activities have to address important new requirements among which enhanced security plays a prime role. the security issues will also be tackled in the upcoming communication on security of electronic networks that should be presented in time for the gothenburg european council. finally, let me stress that we are in full agreement with mr harbour and with his report in considering that the next generation internet is strategically important to europe. we have a unique opportunity ahead of us to develop a networking infrastructure for the benefit of the research community and the european citizen.
rapporteur. – in yesterday's financial times, arthur levitt, a former chairman of the us securities and exchange commission wrote "investors, public companies, accounting firms, stock markets and regulators around the world today face one of the great challenges for the global financial system's future: how to fashion an enduring system of comparable, uniform and high-quality financial reporting that is accepted just as much in europe as it is in the us, and in developed countries as in emerging ones. it is a challenge born less out of crisis and more out of evolutionary progress". he continues "the explosive growth of markets and economies makes developing such a system an imperative. all agree that there is simply no other way to ensure the efficient allocation of capital on a long-term and global basis." this proposal is part of the european union's wider response to the challenges described by mr levitt and, in particular, it deals with the problem of relatively new types of financial instruments, for example, derivatives and hedge funds. this directive requires member states to permit or require all or certain companies to adopt fair value, as opposed to historic cost accounting, where it is appropriate to do so and in the manner spelt out in the directive. it creates a flexible regime and allows member states considerable discretion in line with the application of the principle of subsidiarity, according to the circumstances as they see it. it is intended as a first step towards establishing an accounting regime across europe which meets the requirement of a modern global market place and which, in particular, will provide those who read company accounts with the kind of information they will want and should be entitled to know. the proposal in front of the house today, together with the amendments – all of which were agreed unanimously in committee – are the result of close collaboration between myself, on behalf of the legal affairs committee, and the council and commission, in an effort to reach an agreed formulation which could enable this directive to be dealt with in a single reading. i believe that this work has been brought to a mutually satisfactory conclusion and i commend it.
i rise on a point of order. you will no doubt be aware of the serious problems concerning the provision of secondary education in my region of northamptonshire. with me today in the public gallery is a mother of two from earls barton near wellingborough whose eldest son is due to enter secondary education in september. he has recently petitioned this parliament because his local education authority has failed to allocate him a place in any of the schools of his choice in his local area, even after what can only be described as a flawed appeals process. this is the same local education authority that, until last week, was failing to provide any education or school places to 20 children in the same area. will the president please write to the british government to clarify how this sits with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, especially article 14(3), the right to education, which i believe specifically covers lucy payne's case and the concerns of many other parents across northamptonshire.
in writing. - my colleague michael cashman has done an excellent job in preparing his report on public access to eu institutions' documents. it makes clear that all documents held by the council, the commission and the parliament should in principle be accessible to eu citizens. it is right to recognise that certain exceptions to this access will be necessary, for example, to protect public and private interests. however, it is right to limit the grounds for exception to the strict minimum. i think he is also right in saying that the institutions need a 'thinking space' and therefore certain informal documents should be excluded from the scope of this proposal in order to allow a free exchange of ideas.
in writing. - conservative meps have supported this report, even though they believe the euro is inappropriate for the uk. we do, however, wish it success for those who have accepted it and we recognise that since its arrival the city has been the lion's share of the currency transactions in euro. as a result, many jobs depend on the security of transactions in this currency, and we therefore support this initiative to provide protection against counterfeiting.
madam president, i have a point of order concerning the death penalty in the united states. i should like to ask you, if you have not already done so, to write to the president of the united states, mr bush, to ask that the death sentence against tim mcveigh, the extreme right-wing terrorist bomber in oklahoma, be commuted to life imprisonment. this is on the basis of our longstanding opposition to the death penalty in the united states but in this particular case it is reinforced by the increasing evidence that the bombing was not carried out by a crazed lone bomber but as part of a conspiracy by the extreme right-wing aryan republic army. to execute him at this stage would be to frustrate the search for truth and justice and serve the interests and ideology of the very people implicated in the crime. (applause)
madam president. i wish to congratulate mr berlusconi on his splendid victory in the italian elections. i hope that mr michel, the current foreign minister of belgium, and his fellow travellers, the left-wing european press, will now shut up and respect the democratic choice of the italian people with no more calls for austria-style sanctions or interference by the eu. i should like to remind the new italian government of the commitment made by the previous government of mr amato and supported by all the meps of the governing coalition here in this house to end the shameful perpetual exile of the royal house of savoy and allow them to return to their country of origin by amending the italian constitution as soon as possible. ** *
mr president, it has taken nearly a year and a half to conclude this tobacco directive, and i wish to thank the rapporteur for all his hard work. this piece of legislation will have a dramatic impact. it will transform the way in which cigarettes are sold in scotland, the uk and the whole of the european union. the directive will reduce the most addictive and dangerous substances in cigarettes; it will ban the use of misleading descriptors such as ‘ultras’, ‘lights’ and ‘milds’ and it will introduce giant health warnings. through the work of meps we have also been given a guarantee that the commission will draw up new rules on the use of picture health warnings on cigarette packs by december 2002. after decades of deception and misinformation from the tobacco industry, the message about the true cost of smoking will finally start to hit home. as we all know, smoking is the biggest cause of preventable illness and disease across the european union. over half a million people in the eu die needlessly each year from smoking. in fact, someone diagnosed with lung cancer has an average of between three to ten months of life left. at the end of this month there is the world no tobacco day. there is no better way of celebrating this than by the coming into force of this new directive next year. at this point i should like to encourage colleagues to sign the written declaration for an eu no tobacco day. however the battle against big tobacco continues. i look forward to the new proposals for a tobacco ad ban which the commission will be introducing shortly. one life lost due to tobacco is one life too many.
mr president, i also wish to congratulate mrs paulsen on her diligence in preparing and seeing through this report, and to echo a previous speaker who said of mr maaten's report – but it is equally true of this one – that it is a model of the second-reading procedure. we are gathered here with a reasonable unanimity in the committee, with a very modest number of amendments but with an absolute certainty that we want to press our point. if codecision is to have any meaning, that is a position we will maintain to the end. i am putting the position of my group in the absence of mrs roth-behrendt who, as some will know, is in hospital in berlin. i saw her last week in berlin and i am sure she is making a rapid recovery and would wish all to know that her heart remains in our proceedings in these matters of food hygiene and food safety. there are only six amendments which the house has to consider tonight: five from the committee as a whole and the sixth tabled by the group of the greens/european free alliance. my group supports all of them for one simple reason: we surely should have learned by now the lesson that precision and targeting of possible dangers in animal feed is of the essence of the precautions that we need to take. over the last two or three years we have seen enough of the dreadful practices in parts of the animal-feed industry, sometimes practices that were already illegal according to the rules of those days. they need to be tightened up quickly. precision is at the heart of what mrs paulsen has had to say to us today. precision in language most of all: the word "contamination" is not satisfactory when it is used in the phraseology of the food authority proposals, which we will be discussing shortly. it is not sufficient where we need to be able to have a further process of scrutiny and inspection of damaging materials that may be inserted very early on into the manufacture of animal feed. i am very glad that one important principle is enshrined in this report as it goes through to the next stage: animal feed should be taken as seriously for all of us in our own interests as human food. the two are more or less indistinguishable, both in their effects on human kind and on the animals with whom we share this planet. there is an election going on in britain and yesterday i was doing my stuff on the doorstep in a country village. people were asking whether veterinary inspections were secure and safe and could possible be self-policed. i have known and represented that place for 30 years. ten years ago you would never have heard these considerations. the fact that they are now paramount argues the case for this report.
rapporteur. – mr president, this report comes from a commission proposal presented in january 2000, a proposal drafted under articles 149 and 150, which called on the member states to foster the mobility of people undertaking a course of study, a period of training, voluntary work, or work as a teacher or trainer in another member state, whether on a community programme or not. when this recommendation from the commission was presented to parliament, it was very quickly clear that it was a flawed document and indeed the commission accepted this itself. perhaps with hindsight it might have been easier if we had rejected it some 18 months ago and started again, but we did not and i and colleagues have worked hard to present something to parliament and to salvage something from it. at our first reading in strasbourg last october, parliament voted amendments which i felt would improve the quality of the text, and i announced some of the irregularities and flaws to which i alluded a moment ago. we also sought to extend the scope of the original proposal, for example to include researchers, as had been requested by the committee on employment and social affairs. thirdly, we called on the member states and the commission to set targets and precise goals to measure the progress towards the goals that had been set, i.e. to set indicators to monitor them. colleagues may recall this report came before parliament at a particularly sensitive time for the commission. i understand that it was anxious to match action with resources and for that reason it rejected all those amendments that required it to take follow-up action. it did not reject all the amendments, only those that asked it to take follow-up action, something that is particularly important. it also rejected anything related to researchers, which i understood. since then, i have had lengthy deliberations and negotiations with commission staff, whom i thank for their time, with the french presidency, which prioritised this report, and indeed latterly with the swedish presidency, which has equally been generous with its time and energy. we looked at ways to cover the following important areas: the nature of voluntary work and administrative, financial, linguistic and cultural obstacles to mobility. the common position which has now been arrived at contributes to the clarity of the text, particularly where it deals with third-country nationals. it rejects, however, most of parliament's amendments on social security and social protection rights, areas that we felt were crucial for interest groups, for students, teachers and others. this is why we have had to make a few amendments to the common position. i presented six amendments at second reading, which refer in particular to the action plan that stemmed from the nice summit, which it is important to refer to because it clarifies many of the points that we wanted to raise. i have asked for some follow-up action from member states. i have looked at ways in which we can reduce the administrative costs of implementing this recommendation. i have clarified, i hope, the follow-up action that is expected of the commission and removed an unnecessary and potentially harmful qualification in the common position. all of these amendments are admissible and i have had discussions again with the swedish presidency to make certain that they are in line. there will be one or two small technical points that i would like to bring up tomorrow as oral amendments, just to clarify the text and for the sake of linguistic consistency. i want to make the report unambiguously clear so that it can go through and member states are absolutely clear what is expected of them. as a result of this report we will be taking a few, albeit tentative, steps towards creating mobility for those in education, teachers, students, academics and others, so that they can actually move from one country to another within the european union, make that a reality and take a first step forward.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am sure across this house, and between parliament, the commission and the council, we all agree education is important. president kennedy said of america: "our progress as a union can be no swifter than our progress in education." if that was true for america then, it is certainly true for europe now. i am sure we also all agree that education's prime responsibility lies with, and within, the member states. we should not forget that prime responsibility for education rests with students and scholars themselves. we should also do our best to give as much autonomy as we can to schools and colleges. the question we have to address is: what can europe do? what can we add to the educational business? the very existence of this debate shows that in the european parliament, and indeed with the commission and the council, we have been pushing for more attention to be paid to the role of europe in education. the prosperity of our continent depends upon the level of education offered to our citizens. the other reports we are debating this evening deal with the present and the future. my report deals primarily with the past. some of it is critical, but it is critical of what happened in the past rather than what is happening now. my report is: white paper "teaching and learning – towards the learning society". that is a very impressive title, but i am not too sure that the report was that positive. after lisbon and stockholm, we are left in no doubt as to the importance europe places on developing a knowledge economy. i am sure that with commissioner reding and her team future commission activity in response to the increased priority for education agreed at the lisbon and stockholm summits will be better than that detailed in my report. i am afraid that after reading the commission communication, i finished with not much more of an idea as to how far europe had actually come towards the learning society, and which direction we wished to go. sadly, i found the document vague, indicative of a lack of any real action over past years, although there were some notable exceptions. the main objectives which the commission tried to attain in the implementation of its white paper seemed laudable: developing employability and boosting knowledge potential. i am not quite sure what was meant by helping to build a people's europe – that seemed to be a vogue phrase of a few years ago. unfortunately, the commission's report did not really detail any concrete progress made by the commission in the five objectives set out. it was rather enthusiastic, but vague in terms of the impact of certain actions. what we and the public – and certainly we as the budgetary authority – want to know is how much was spent? how much of it was new money (as opposed to funds already in existing programmes)? what was the european added value? what results were achieved? and what lessons were learned for the future? i ask the commission to ensure that we have that information so that in future we as the budgetary authority can press for more funding for this very important work. there are certainly many projects mentioned which are worthy of further exploration: the european credit transfer system, for instance. but as the debate we had earlier this evening shows us, 40 years on from the start of the eu, 15 years after the single european act, we cannot yet say there is mutual recognition of academic qualifications across europe there are some things that can and should be done at a european level. europe with its richness of linguistic diversity presents problems as well as strengths. i would say: let us be realistic, rather than too idealistic. can we ask the member states to insist that nobody goes into higher education, unless they have a qualification in a modern language other than their own? because in some member states that is not yet a requirement. we certainly need to do more work on it, but that is being addressed in other reports. i will not deal with that. the single market requires a much more mobile workforce than we currently have. mobility in europe is less than half that of the united states. we must make our workforce more mobile, and that means more resources at a european level for careers advice and for work experience. i am quite sure that the careers services across europe do not have enough resources to alert students to the opportunities in the single market of europe. i would say, however, that it is not just the commission that can do things. let me suggest one way in which this parliament could help. we support, of course, educational exchanges of erasmus, socrates and so on in the european educational institute in florence, but not enough students get the opportunity to experience europe. i have long thought that the eur 100m we spend every year on the use of this building for one week a month is a terrible waste of resources. i suggest that we give some thought to turning this building into a european university. that would be good for the students of europe, the city of strasbourg, france, this parliament and europe.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, the importance of lifelong learning in creating a learning society is fundamental to meet the challenges of economic and social change and sustainable development that we face today. in the light of recent job losses across europe, retraining and education will be even more important in helping to adapt the skills of workers to enable them to find new jobs. for this to be effective sufficient resources have to be made available. lifelong learning has a much wider significance than that: it is also important for personal fulfilment and as a means of developing responsible citizenship, encouraging people to play a full part in their community. so it can help break the cycle of poverty and unemployment. through informal and non-credited learning it can also be a very effective way of involving both adults and young people in the most disadvantaged areas, who are those most threatened by social exclusion and poverty but who often have very negative attitudes towards formal education and so are least likely to benefit from it. unfortunately, the commission's white paper "teaching and learning – towards the learning society" missed the opportunity to produce a comprehensive report, including examples of good practice, which would have been of great value to all those working in the field. it does not contain enough information on how effective or cost-effective various actions were and there is little information on what was done to target specific groups such as women, elderly workers, immigrants, families in disadvantaged areas, the long-term unemployed and disabled people. so whilst there are universities, colleges and community groups as well as regional and local governments across the eu carrying out excellent and pioneering work in this field, this report does not really reflect that. therefore i agree with the rapporteur that even as an interim report, on what was after all an ambitious white paper, this is a disappointing summary of progress on this most important issue. i hope future reports will be more positive and can be useful tools in themselves for those working in education.
mr president, first of all i commend all the reports before us which go some way to defining our common aspirations for the future of educational systems in the union. they also make clear some of the issues which we now face in developing such systems. the first issue is the european educational area which hovers above all the reports rather like a question mark, and we undoubtedly have a variety of views on this: there is no doubt whatsoever, and this is without prejudice to the concept of subsidiarity, that we need to coordinate our education policies in the union in pursuit of the lisbon goals. if we do not do this, we cannot attain them: it is as simple as that. we need to have a coherent understanding of what constitutes good and what constitutes bad practice. we need to have an understanding about teaching and learning models, how we want to employ them, and what values we want to impart through them. we need to understand that this will involve considerable change, because of the new styles of education systems that we need today. we need to learn from best practice. we need therefore to have up-to-date hard and soft statistics to ensure that we can provide the most valuable benchmarks so that our systems match the very best. these reports also point to the development of educational content. at the risk of courting controversy i would remind you that cisco systems and microsoft are already in our schools providing content. we need to make sure that they are providing the sort of content that we want to see in our schools. we need mobility. it is not just the key to a successful european single market, it is the key to a successful union in its social and political content as well as its economic content. the mobility report has made considerable progress on this, but, how long has bologna been around and yet failed to gain widespread application? how do we ensure equal access to mobility for all people when member states do not have equal access to language skills? i would argue that for universal access to mobility we need to have universal access to language teaching and learning. here, as elsewhere, new technology is one of the keys to unlock all of these solutions. we can install all the hardware and all the infrastructure we like all over europe, but unless we have the educational systems to teach people skills in schools and in life-long learning, we will not be able to make the most of them.
mr president, i welcome the paper on the e-learning initiative and congratulate the rapporteur on its content. e-learning is becoming increasingly important. until now perhaps less weight has been given to it in relation to education. it is, however, becoming increasingly apparent that our children's future is indeed a digital future. therefore preparing for the use of information and communication technologies is becoming increasingly important. the training of teachers in this field is a top priority. i fully support this. but my concern is that once teachers return to their respective schools they return to find that very little ict facilities are available for them. more often than not they find that they cannot communicate the knowledge acquired through training courses back to the children and make use of ict in their classes because of lack of resources. without the necessary tools to meet the aims of the e-learning agenda, the goals of the lisbon summit will not be achieved. having no direct jurisdiction over education in the member states, how will the commission ensure that these goals are being met and that member states' governments will provide schools with the necessary equipment to realise these aims? another problems is that technology is advancing at such a rate that it has become necessary to update computer equipment every few years. this has been, and will be, an added problem for schools working within very tight budgets. it is equally important to make training and education in the information society available to all individuals throughout their lives to realise job opportunities and for personal development as well. this is important and reflects the trend and the decrease in heavy industries in favour of the service industries which rely heavily on digitally-literate personnel. let us reduce the gap between europe and the united states. let us create an e-europe which is accessible to all.
mr president, on a point of order. all our voting cards on these rows have been removed. it may be a plot by the ppe-de group to win the next vote, but something has gone wrong.
mr president, the von wogau report understandably makes no mention of the commission's criticism levelled at the uk's labour government. chancellor brown, no doubt with the general election of 7 june in mind, decided to promise considerable increases in public spending, particularly on health and education, threatening, without tax rises, to breach the stability and growth pact agreements and to raise the proportions spent by the public sector beyond the desirable current 38% level of gdp. mr berlusconi's new government and promised economic package may also be problematic for the commission, but it is particularly rich for the british chancellor to reject this criticism from the commission as interfering in sovereign british fiscal affairs, while at the same time making active plans for a referendum to join the euro, subject to his arbitrary five economic tests, which make no mention of the constitutional issues behind emu, which are dear to british conservatives. once the uk is in the euro zone, we will have even less fiscal autonomy, and i do not know what politically – as opposed to legally – binding guidelines really mean in practice, as we are forced to harmonise our taxes upwards to avoid so-called unfair tax competition and avoid distortion in mr von wogau's proposed european home market. that is a name that i, as a uk member, object to, as it suggests that the three states remaining outside the euro, of which my country is one, are not at home in europe's single market; so i would strongly suggest that euroland or euro zone is much the preferred label and i wish the zone every success for the future. although i personally have a problem with the term ‘social market economy’, as we in britain associate it with social democracy, the description in the report rightly encapsulates the vision of a dynamic, deregulated, competitive, free-market economy that is sensitive to the needs of the environment and the labour markets, which i clearly welcome. however, i am not so sure whether the comments regarding the european central bank's first two years are exactly correct. it has not been a great success, and they are still muddling through and remain somewhat opaque in their decision-making process. this was clearly demonstrated by the quarter percent interest rate reduction last week which came across as panicky and a knee-jerk reaction to the downturn in the american economy and seemed to fly in the face of their own monetary and inflation targets as well as many speeches by mr duisenberg. on another matter, i too call on the eu to implement rapidly the suggested liberalisation of the energy, post, airport and railway sectors. i personally also support the single sky initiative. mr von wogau was right: europe will not become a fortress and overall, in spite of all the problems in the world, its prospects look relatively rosy in these uncertain times.
mr president, more than thirty years ago an organisation called 'friends of the earth' was born in my country. i seem to remember a publicity stunt that featured an enormous mound of bottles which were no longer going to be returned for refilling but were simply going to be dumped in a landfill site. i was twelve or thirteen at the time and that publicity and the photographs on television woke many of us up to the concerns we still have for the environment and drew our attention to the waste of resources attached to so much of our way of living and our manufacturing processes. i am sorry that so many years later my own country is one of those which is trailing behind the countries of the rapporteur and the commissioner in improving its recycling rate. so i am pleased that we have this european legislation, and indeed the whole waste strategy of the commission, which is forcing individual countries like my own that are recalcitrant and bow too easily to industry pressure on their own doorstep to recognise and put into practice the principles of sustainability. these countries are very happy to talk about these principles on a wider stage but are reluctant to put them into practice on their own doorstep. the principle here that the producer should accept responsibility for the whole life of the product and ensure that the problems caused by that production are not passed on to future generations is one which we should embrace very strongly. so i welcome this legislation and consider it important that industry in my country and perhaps countries elsewhere should recognise that if it does not seize the opportunity to modernise its processes and live up to the high environmental standards then it will lose out on market opportunities across europe. two dilemmas have been pointed out concerning lead and brominated flame retardants. i put this one question to the commissioner about the issue of low-cost, low-energy light bulbs: is it better to have them recycled but to put up the cost, or is it better to keep down the cost, encourage their use and perhaps tackle the other serious environmental problem of global warming a little bit more rapidly than we might otherwise be able to do?
commission. – mr president, i wish to begin by thanking mr florenz for his work in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and the excellent cooperation he has established between all the groups and with the commission. we are tackling the specific problem of electrical and electronic waste for the following reasons. we have heard them before, but i repeat that this is the fastest growing part of the waste stream – indeed, it is growing three times faster than other waste streams. each of us produces on average about 14 kgs per year of such waste. by the year 2010, when this directive will be fully operational, electrical and electronic waste will account for over 8% of the entire municipal waste stream. ninety per cent of this electrical and electronic waste is currently landfilled or incinerated with no pre-treatment. this means wasted resources, both in terms of the costs of disposal and the poor use of natural resources. electrical and electronic equipment is a major source of certain hazardous substances in the waste stream. just one example illustrates this: 40% of the lead in landfills and 50% of the lead in incineration comes from this type of equipment. lastly, since member states are already acting in this area, there is a strong case for community coordination. the main aim of the proposals for directives is to prevent electrical and electronic equipment from being landfilled or incinerated. to achieve this objective, the directive sets out a range of requirements. member states are required to set up separate collection schemes from households; consumers have the right to dispose of their waste free of charge and producers are responsible for taking the waste from central collection points and ensuring that it is properly treated through recovery and re-use. in addition, the directive requires the substitution of certain hazardous substances, such as lead and mercury, by 2008. let me answer some of your questions. i shall begin with the question by mr davies. i understood him to mean that if these light bulbs were exempted, it would mean that they would be slightly cheaper. however, there is really no contradiction in collecting these light bulbs. it is very important to include them in this kind of system. it will still be cheaper to produce an environmentally-friendly light bulb. we have not set up specific recycling targets for light bulbs, only for fluorescent lamps. i think the producers of these lamps would like to be included in this scheme. we are all concerned about brominated flame retardants. the commission considers that there is sufficient evidence to ban the use of two categories of brominated flame retardants, pbb and pbde – that is against the background of the risk assessments being carried out on them. we have enough evidence to be able to ban them. we agree that a mechanism to ban new substances should be set up. it is of course important, and in line with the chemicals strategy, that we allow such a development and add on new substances. we admit that today we do not have enough risk assessments and evidence to make a complete list of all the existing flame retardants, including the risks of taking them out of some substances where they prevent fire, etc. the review should cover all potential hazardous substances. i turn to mr lund's question on denmark. remember that the aim of these directives is to establish a high common level of protection. these products are marketed throughout the european union, and that is why it is necessary to have a high level of protection in the whole of the eu. at the same time we know that sweden, denmark and other countries which have effective legislation have not been forced to abandon their legislation. this is what sweden and denmark feared, but it did not happen. it has to be looked at on a case-by-case basis. this will also have to be done for these substances. we want to establish a high level of protection for the whole of the european union. several members have mentioned the 'visible fee'. the commission thinks that this amendment is unnecessary. a 'visible fee' is possible as long as it does not create trade distortions. nowhere is it said that producers cannot inform consumers of the costs of waste management. i think these were the most important questions raised. now we are confronted with a total number of 136 amendments: 100 on the proposal on electronic waste and 36 on the proposal on hazardous substances. on the first proposal, overall, the commission can accept 36 amendments in full, 11 in part and 22 in principle. the commission can accept amendments nos 3, 4, 10, 15, 16, 18 to 25, 27 to 29, 36, 39, 42, 43, 45, 47 to 50, 51, 52, 54, 56, 59 to 61, 64, 66 to 68. twenty-two amendments can be accepted in principle: 2, 8, 9, 30, 32, 38, 41, 44, 53, 55, 57, 58, 62, 63, 75, 77, 83 to 86, 95 and 100. in particular, as regards amendments nos 9 and 35, the commission can accept that member states take measures with a view to achieving a separate collection rate of 6 kg per person per year. concerning amendment no 44, it is important to leave freedom to member states on how to organise the collection, in accordance with the subsidiarity principle. amendment no 52 may give rise to practical difficulties, but can also be accepted in principle. eleven amendments can be accepted in part: no 6 (second part, in principle), no 11 (second part, except the terms in brackets), no 13 (the text will have to be shortened and simplified), no 17 (second and third parts, in principle), no 26 (except the term ‘consumables’), no 35 (first paragraph, second paragraph in principle, fourth paragraph, seventh paragraph in principle, eighth paragraph, ninth paragraph in principle), no 37 (except paragraph 5), no 46 (second and third parts, in principle), no 70 (except the part referring to printed circuit boards; the entry on capacitors can be accepted in principle) nos 71 and 80 (the reference to regulation 2037/2000 can be accepted). on the second proposal, overall the commission can accept five amendments in full, two in part and twelve in principle. the amendments acceptable in full are nos 1, 9, 12, 13 and 17. the commission can accept amendments nos 4, 7, 10, 14, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 25, 26 and 35 in principle. as regards amendments nos 4 and 10, the commission agrees that the scope of the directive on restrictions on substances may be broadened on the basis of a proposal from the commission. however, this should be done in accordance with certain principles, not least those set out in the chemicals strategy. the commission can accept to advance the date of phase-out from 2008 to 2006. amendment no 11 can be accepted in the part which refers to consumer safety and amendment no 23 (inclusion of category 10 in the scope).
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. – mr president, the members of the committee on agriculture recognise the great importance that we attach to the control of substances which are used in farming to protect plants and encourage growth, particularly the effects that these have on our water supplies. we are, however, disappointed that the committee on the environment did not accept our amendments that substances in natural nutrients used in agriculture should not be classified either as priority or hazardous priority substances. the committee on the environment also did not accept our amendment no 3 which was to review the procedure for priority hazardous substances. the plant protection products directive 91/414 already has an established procedure to evaluate those substances and decide whether or not they should be used in the community. i would submit that the decisions under that directive ought to be completed under its agreed timetable before an informed decision can be taken under these new proposals. there is no valid reason, given that we are looking at a potential phase-out period of twenty years, for trying to shorten the timetable, and this was the substance of the committee on agriculture's proposal. we wanted to allow sufficient time to have a thorough investigation and make sure there was an avoidance of errors. the original commission proposal was barely in line. amendment no 20 by the committee and amendment no 27 by mrs breyer run counter to proper investigation and should be opposed. mrs breyer ought to have mentioned when she was talking about amendment no 27 that she was speaking about an amendment tabled by herself on behalf of her group and not on behalf of the committee on the environment.
mr president, i must first of all welcome this report. it has taken some time to get it to the plenary session. mrs breyer has been persistent, though, and she has worked very hard on it. so i think we can now give it our general support and endorse entirely the principles of what is being proposed here today. this priority list of thirty-two proposed substances, ranked according to their known dangerous properties, is the right way to start trying to deal with the problem of water pollution. however, we also need to consider the possibility of adding to this list or simply changing it using the commps procedure or using other additional information we might obtain in the coming years. we do have to consider this list very carefully before action, but that is not an excuse for no action or slow action. it is still bizarre to me that nickel is included on this list and that our approach to families of chemicals has unfairly targeted fluoranthene alongside the other pahs. so, clearly further work is needed on this initial list. the timetable for action is not really ambitious. 2020? i really think that perhaps we can go a little faster than that. the idea of getting close to zero emissions of these substances is a fairly vague objective and i think some of the european parliament's amendments today help to clarify this issue. but i do not doubt for one minute that this is the way ahead, that these are the steps we have got to take to protect an increasingly important resource, the quality of which is vital to future generations. this is a blessing they do not have in other parts of the world. in europe we should count our blessings and care for our blessings; our water resources are one of those very important blessings.
mr president, as we look at the world's environmental problems, some of them, such as the loss of habitats and biodiversity, seem to leave us powerless of achieving any solution. but it is not all gloom and doom, and within europe, we are capable of banning the use of chemicals which are toxic, persistent and bio-accumulative and using science to develop safer alternatives, and this directive is good news for that reason. the water framework directive was my first experience of the dynamics of the conciliation process between parliament and the council with the assistance of the commission, and i think that parliament can claim credit for introducing the category of priority hazardous substances which this directive now puts into practice, but it is indeed a first step on a long road. i know the commissioner has herself many times referred to the sheer number of chemicals still being developed and being put on the market, and suspicion is attached to many substances, not identified as yet, and the process of identification and elimination needs to progress rapidly. can i refer in concluding to the institutional relationship? the presidency has indicated to group spokesmen that it would like to fast-track this process and see a rapid resolution, and i think that is welcomed by all parties. we would obviously like to see action sooner rather than later, but hastily arranged meetings with no time for proper discussion and coordination between parties are not the best way of making laws or securing agreement so i hope we succeed and are able to achieve a vote today which the council can endorse within a matter of weeks rather than years; but if we do, i suspect that it will be more a matter of luck than design, and i hope we can bear this in mind if we are able to work together with the other institutions of the european union and achieve progress more effectively and rapidly in future years.
mr president, we have finite resources to expend on environmental improvement, even in the developed west. money must be targeted where it will have the most beneficial environmental impact. therefore i welcome this attempt to prioritise substances. testing techniques are becoming more sensitive. minuscule levels of contamination can be detected. it is therefore unrealistic to talk about elimination or cessation or even 'close to zero'. what does 'close to zero' mean, one, two, who knows? threshold levels must be set with regard to human health, not using abstract concepts. secondly, the united kingdom has a specific problem regarding the categorisation of fluoranthene, which is one of the family of polyaromatic hydrocarbons in the top category. we have one hundred thousand kilometres of cast-iron water-pipes lined with coal-tar, which contains some fluoranthene. no-one is suggesting that the levels present are a risk to health, but these pipes will have to be re-lined unless fluoranthene can be moved into the 'under review' part of the list, along with the other pahs like naphthalene and anthrocene all of which, incidentally, the commps procedure has found to be less toxic than fluoranthene. it would be a waste of resources to have to replace or reline all these water-pipes on the basis of this priority list when the resources could be better deployed in areas of real concern.
commission. – honourable members, first of all i thank mrs breyer for her work on this important proposal. it is less than a year ago that we reached an agreement on a new european water policy, and the decision that we are discussing today is an important first step in substantiating the water framework directive. i am sure that we can agree that one of the main achievements of this directive during conciliation was to make the central political commitments of the ospar convention legally binding and operational. this major success of the european parliament has within a very short time introduced this visionary objective of a long-term protection of sensitive marine eco-systems into our community policy. it has always been my position that the commission is committed to coming forward with specific proposals for measures for priority and priority hazardous substances, and i have done everything possible to allow this to be put in place as soon as possible. on 16 january this year the commission presented its proposal for the list of priority substances, including priority hazardous substances, only three weeks after the water framework directive came into force. despite this short time frame i believe that the commission was able to come up with an amended proposal which is ambitious and balanced. this leads me directly to the key issue under discussion in the committee on the environment. the identification of the priority hazardous substances and the introduction of a review clause has been discussed intensively. let me also discuss this list in a more general way, without referring to it substance by substance. the proposed list is not designed for eternity. in fact the water framework directive speaks of a dynamic process which foresees a review of the list, including the identification of priority hazardous substances, every four years at the latest. this implies that the procedure for selection will be continuously improved and the scientific evidence as well as other developments will be taken on board. indeed the guidelines you have suggested in several amendments will help us to move in the right direction. we will naturally take into account the scientific assessments that are under preparation under various community instruments at the moment. thus we must ensure that the substances that we identify as priority hazardous are based on the same criteria and thresholds in both the water and the chemicals policy. i have noted that amendments nos 20 and 27 propose to reduce the deadline for the specific review to 1 july 2002 or one year after adoption of the list. this is a very short time frame and will be extremely challenging, in particular because some of the scientific assessments might not be completely finalised by then, and i do not want to commit myself to unrealistic deadlines. mr lange asked me if i could guarantee a review of the list during my term of office. yes, i reiterate my commitment to this, but the twelve months might be too tight, thus leading to insufficient quality of this first review and i am not interested in that. in short, i am committed to improving the dynamic instrument for setting priorities and identifying priority hazardous substances, in particular substances of concern that may emerge from other relevant community initiatives and international agreements in the future. (applause) nevertheless, the commission is reluctant to accept amendments nos 17, 18 and 19, as those three substances would not fulfil all the criteria. at the same time the proposed selection of these plant protection products as priority substances will ensure the sustainable protection of drinking water resources. as regards the deadline for a review of certain priority substances, i reiterate my commitment to review the list as soon as possible. however, amendments nos 20 and 27 in their current wording impose too tight a framework for achieving the quality of work that i consider indispensable. i was asked about the candidate countries' involvement, and this is a crucial issue for me. following my initiative, the member states and the commission agreed two weeks ago on a common implementation strategy for the water framework directive. the implementation efforts will not only involve all stakeholders but also candidate countries, just as the meeting two weeks ago involved not only the water directors of member states and the commission but also those from candidate countries. let me turn to the other proposed amendments on the recitals and the articles. i can accept these amendments as long as they are in line with the water framework directive. i can accept amendments nos 2 to 6, 8 to 11, 13, 15, 21 to 23 and 26. in addition i can accept in part amendments nos 12, 16 and 25 and in principle amendments nos 1, 7, 24, 28 and 29. i do not accept amendment no 14 because it is fully and more precisely covered by amendment no 13. by way of conclusion, i would like to say that it is in the commission's interests that measures for these substances are taken swiftly. following adoption of this list i will ensure that the ensuing work on measures for phasing out emissions, discharges and losses of priority hazardous substances is carried out according to the environmental objectives and timetable set out in the directive. my services have already started preparatory work on this. i am seeking your support for this work and i sincerely hope that we show the same speed and determination in the implementation of the new water framework directive for the benefit of the aquatic environment in europe.(applause)
- we will ensure that all language versions conform to the english version.
commission. – mr president, the commission accepts the six amendments, subject to a minor reformulation, which makes a reference to the nice council foreseen in amendment no 3, recital 4a, amendment no 1.
mr president, with your permission i should like to move a technical oral amendment, which the commissioner has just referred to, so that amendment no 1 reads at the end, "the action plan for mobility adopted by the council on 14 december 2000 and also approved at the nice european council", and amendment no 3 deletes "agreed at the nice summit", because i have just referred to it in amendment no 1.
- you are putting me in an uncomfortable position, mr. florenz. the rules of procedure are very clear about the time limits for filing separate voting requests. we've already turned down other similar requests. the fact that you are the rapporteur makes things difficult, but i cannot accept your request. it was supposed to be filed by 9:00 today. we shall therefore have to proceed with the vote as planned. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. -the right of every citizen to petition the european parliament has been considered important enough to be included in the treaties and i believe it deserves such treatment. this is a highly effective way for anyone to get in direct contact with the heart of the european institutions on issues that may not be politically important but are in the eyes of european citizens and residents. some may question the advantage of the right to petition the european parliament, but the recent success of david petrie, who received the support of the committee on petitions and the whole of the european parliament for his petition, in italian courts to obtain equal recognition for non-italian readers, has highlighted what a petition can do. my co-rapporteur and i have kept this in mind when we wrote our report. we have wanted to make access to and exercise of this right easier, not only by exploiting new media and technologies but also by reforming the procedures governing petitions once they have been received by parliament and forwarded to the other institutions. the present system allows petitions to be submitted electronically but only as an initial submission. follow-up is by post, which of course can cause delays in the first phase of the proceedings, long before the petition is submitted to the committee. alternatives such as electronic signatures and electronic correspondence must be explored if parliament is to be able to cope with the increasing number of petitions submitted. clearer rules for dealing with petitions once they are deemed admissible should also be rapidly defined. the committee on petitions can currently ask the commission for information on a particular subject, but has little to say about the timeframe within which the commission or any other institution has to provide answers to the committee's questions or even the possibility for meps to have access to these answers once they are received. for example, in the committee on petitions we are currently examining petitions on the organisation of lloyd's but we are refused access to the uk government's replies to the commission's questionnaire on this issue. if the european institutions and the governments of the member states are serious about making their working methods transparent, then they must review the way petitions are handled. it is regrettable that the behaviour denounced in a petition should be reserved for him in his treatment. member states in particular need to pay greater attention to citizens who want to assert their european rights. the right to petition should aim to strengthen the concept of european citizenship, protecting the four freedoms of individuals in the union and ensuring that european legislation is applied adequately and effectively. as we move into the 21st century, with a union of perhaps 28 members and a growing body of legislation at european level, the role and treatment of petitions must be changed to preserve their importance and usefulness.
in writing. - i fully support the compromise agreement on a draft directive on the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products. this new, strict anti-smoking legislation covers all tobacco products and sets maximum levels of tar, carbon monoxide and nicotine. i wholeheartedly support these new laws which will transform the way cigarettes are sold in europe and change the public's perception of smoking. i also welcome the use of warning images on packages, illustrating the long-term health effects of smoking, as is done in canada. a picture is better than a long speech. if shock tactics like this can get the message out and save lives, i can only support it. in general, this innovative legislation will raise public awareness of the health risks of smoking and finally dispel the myth that one type of cigarette is less harmful to health than another. the tobacco giants have hired some of the best lobbyists money could buy to fight this legislation throughout its journey, but the european parliament has not relented. after the industry succeeded in overturning the european ban on tobacco advertising on a technico-legal detail, we were even more determined than ever to ensure that this legislation was published in the official journal to explain the dangers of smoking and save thousands of lives.
in writing. - mr president, i wholeheartedly support this excellent report by my labour colleague, robert evans. it is further proof of labour's commitment to creating a europe for our citizens. the aim of the programme is to enable people to move around europe by extending mobility within the eu for students, young volunteers and teachers. this programme offers educational opportunities and encourages people to play an active role in society throughout europe. this is the key to developing, following on from last year's action plan, concrete measures identifying obstacles to mobility. it is also an important measure for the effective functioning of the european single market. the labour government is determined to make the single market work for all britons and not just for businessmen. by improving the mobility of students and volunteers, people will be more confident to work and travel not only across the uk but also across europe. such a programme can inspire civic values, is highly educational and is an excellent publicity for the european union to its most important citizens, the young. this is essential when we know that, in the uk at least, the participation of young people in the last european elections was among the lowest in the eu. the practical experience of europe, not media talk about europe, is a much more reliable and enriching source of knowledge about europe for young people.
in writing. -(en) i support these measures which introduce strict new recycling rules allowing consumers and small retailers to return waste electrical and electronic equipment free of charge and encouraging manufacturers to take responsibility. the aim of these rules is to encourage consumers who are disposing of their old electrical and electronic equipment to take it back to new local public collection points or through take-back systems at retailers, rather than simply throwing away their old hair dryers, refrigerators or tv sets. we live in a throwaway society, where old computers, kettles, refrigerators and freezers add to the waste stream at an unprecedented rate. consumers across europe must pay their fair share in the fight against the tide of electronic waste. all this means is a slight change in their daily habits. taking old radios or vacuum cleaners back to recycling, rather than throwing them in the trash, will become like recycling bottles or collecting old newspapers. for manufacturers, this involves financing recycling systems with public collection points, take-back and treatment systems from dealers and take-back and disposal systems. their responsibility does not begin or end with the production of electronic equipment, manufacturers should assume responsibility for their products after their end of life. such a system is an important step towards a greener european union. once again, this proves europe's commitment to creating a healthier and safer environment for our citizens.
- that concludes the explanations of vote. (the sitting was suspended at 1.39 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
rapporteur. – mr president, this report concerns the proposal for a council recommendation on drinking of alcohol by children and adolescents. parliament has been asked to give its opinion on this issue. our report will not become a binding piece of european legislation but will literally act as a recommendation to member states. i should like at this stage to thank the swedish presidency for its interest in this issue and for organising the successful stockholm conference. the format of allowing young people to make their views known on an equal footing with health ministers made the dialogue all the more interesting. we know the growing evidence shows that children and adolescents are starting drinking at a younger age and drinking at worrying levels at a younger age. the problem is growing not only in the northern states but also in the southern states. france and spain report growing problems of adolescent drunkenness, associated with fights, violence, truancy, theft and illegal drugs. recent surveys show that the uk, denmark, finland, france and sweden report the highest proportions of boys and girls who have been drunk at or younger than 13. scotland, which i represent in this parliament, has the highest rate of binge drinking amongst 15-year-olds. the gender gap is also closing, with more girls reporting having been drunk at 15 in denmark, finland, england, scotland and wales. yet the simple fact is that children and adolescents are just more vulnerable to the effects of alcohol than adults. the rise of drinking to excess by children and adolescents has serious implications for future health. drinking behaviour, which occurs during youth, can lead to similar patterns in adulthood. certainly many colleagues here will know the consequences of drinking to excess. but in terms of misuse of alcohol by adolescents, the link between binge drinking, unplanned pregnancy, sexually-transmitted diseases, crime and road-traffic accidents cannot be denied. you need only go to your local police station or hospital to see the evidence. what are the solutions? information, education and health promotion are critical in the fight against under-age binge drinking, as are health promotion policies targeted at children, parents, teachers and carers, better labelling on alcohol products, integration of adolescent policies. in preparing this report i contacted over a hundred schools and fifty youth organisations in scotland. townhill primary school in dunfermline, where i live, summed up the need for more education when it found that most children in the class were not aware of the health and social problems associated with alcohol misuse. this leads me on to my second point, an important one. more research is needed into the nature, scale and causes of this growing trend in binge drinking by children and adolescents. we need to improve data collection and share information. kinghorn primary school in fife thought that the research issue was important and that an e-mail network of pupils allowing them to discuss and explore the issues was critical. thirdly, the issue of selling to under-age people is also an important one. in many countries there are existing laws which should prevent this from happening. however, as we all know, this still goes on. the rise of bootlegged alcohol in many member states is also a factor. proper implementation of existing laws in member states could go some way to prevent the selling to children and adolescents. on codes of conduct: much of the alcohol industry has signed up to voluntary codes of conduct and has self-regulation. much of the industry has tried to take a responsible view to this issue. however, there is a real concern among parents, teachers and young people themselves that not enough is being done on advertising. when you see pictures of babies in beer-logo babygrows, no wonder people have cause for concern. powrie primary school in dundee asked that alcohol should be made ‘uncool’; tv ads should show vomiting and hang-overs. many members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection supported the move for more binding regulation, and the debate continues. in conclusion, the need for joint action on education and research is critical in the fight against binge drinking by children and adolescents. at st elizabeth primary school in hamilton they noted that there is more to life than the aspiration to get as drunk as possible in as little time as possible, with as big an audience as possible. finally, in the words of the world health organisation's european charter on alcohol: "all children and adolescents have the right to grow up in an environment protected from the negative consequences of alcohol consumption and to the extent possible from the promotion of alcoholic beverage". i hope my colleagues will support this report.
mr president, all the statistics show that the number of children and adolescents drinking has reached alarming levels over the past decade. so i congratulate the commission on this welcome initiative and the rapporteur, mrs stihler, for strengthening and improving the commission's recommendation. children and young people are drinking alcohol more frequently and starting not only to drink but to get drunk at an ever younger age. in wales, my own constituency, half of all fifteen-year-olds drink beer every week. while i would usually be the first to welcome equality between the sexes, in this case we can only regret that over the past decade the number of girls drinking excessively has almost equalled that of boys in nearly every member state. young people, as was said earlier, must be able to make their own informed decisions about alcohol. the report refers to the importance of involving young people themselves in the campaign to prevent alcohol abuse, so that the right, positive images and the right messages are used, which will reach young people and which will have an influence on them. we must stop the deliberate targeting of alcohol products at young people. we must have effective labelling and advertising of the dangers of alcohol, but also readily available information for young people, parents and all those involved in youth work to promote healthy living. in this way we may be able to stem the increasing prevalence of alcohol, which can be so destructive in the lives of young people.
mr president, i happened to be minister of health when advice came through that the new guidance should be that some alcohol was better than none, but some was also better than too much, and in a sense that is what we need to do through this report: to help young people understand that there is a balance to be struck between the pleasure and the benefit of drinking alcohol sensibly and the dangers of alcohol abuse. one of the things that had to be learnt was that the units per day that you drink cannot be concentrated in binge drinking at the weekend because the level of alcohol in next day's bloodstream is then catastrophically high. young people need to understand the danger of abuse, they need also to understand the effect of drinking on their study, on their ability to concentrate, on work, especially if they are working with machinery, on leisure and on sport, and we have inserted a warning about the risk of dying if you swim after drinking too much. most serious of all is the role of alcohol abuse in triggering or exacerbating mental illness, and especially for young men as the precursor to suicide attempts. this is a useful report. it needs further study in some places, not least on the unit labelling, because in britain the unit is eight grams of alcohol, in spain and denmark it is ten, in france it is twelve and in portugal it is fourteen. we also need to look carefully at the sports grounds restrictions that are suggested, because there is a huge difference between a ninety-minute football match – give or take the half-time break – and many clubs of course ban alcohol in their grounds, and the all-day cricket match with the lunch and tea intervals. we have to be careful not to ban the hospitality boxes because of loss of revenue to sport and boardroom drinking because of loss of sanity to sports directors. but broadly i welcome this as a step for the commission to consider.
throughout the eu we have a problem with young people drinking too much. we are not talking about adult drinking here, let us stress that. some of my colleagues have raised the issue of subsidiarity. we are not dealing with a regulation or a directive here. we are simply talking about a recommendation. to try to deal with young people binge drinking and drinking to excess. it is a way for other countries to learn from each other. it is important, for instance, that school nurses and doctors are trained to spot the problems of excessive drinking by young people. we must realise that peer pressure is a problem, lack of self-esteem, parents drinking: those are all problems we should take into account. we should also make sure that we consult the ngos, which have a great deal of experience in this field already, and make sure that producers and retailers are held responsible for their actions. i personally would like to see alcohol advertising banned at young people's sporting events, not at adult events but at young people's sporting events, and i believe very strongly that we should support this recommendation. the who is supporting measures in this field, the nspcc is and i certainly hope my colleagues will vote for it.
mr president, i will begin by congratulating the rapporteur. as the shadow rapporteur for my group, i have seen her diligence throughout these proceedings and we all wish to honour her work. this is quite a new state of the parliamentary proceedings, and we need to pick our words carefully as we look forward to a potential conciliation. at second reading we are deliberately putting forward only a few amendments which centre on some very important principles, and on most of those we will reach a further agreement. as mrs gonzález álvarez has said, the committee passed, by a substantial majority, all of the amendments, and we propose to vote for them today. we need – we think we shall get – a clear assurance that we shall move ahead from these proposals to the safety of services and the liability of service providers and there should not be any division of principle on that. we need to make it crystal clear that we shall also be able to take out of the market, not just for us, but world-wide, those products which present a serious risk, not just for domestic consumption, but also in the global market, because such products can easily be recycled, as mrs gonzález álvarez says in her new amendment no 13. we are asserting that principle today in the signing off of the maaten report on tobacco, and it is precisely the same principle that we invoke here. of course, there will have to be some compromises and discussions, but we need to look very carefully at what the word "exemption" means, if it is going to be asserted as a limitation on the path to withdrawal. there is a will to agree and a will to compromise, but we need to do it on the basis that the precautionary principle is always held in mind in our discussions and that this is consistent with other things which this commissioner and this commission have done in terms of the banning of dangerous products elsewhere. finally, i would like to say that whilst i am certain that we can harmonise the guidelines on safety which will be used throughout the enlarged eu and we can agree on external certification, we need to be careful of other phrases which i hear bandied about as possible compromises. one is "where appropriate". where is not appropriate, where we are applying the precautionary principle? it has to be there throughout, not necessarily as the leitmotif, but certainly as something that we bear in mind in framing the legislation. so i cannot, i fear, go along with mrs flemming's amendment, and i, like most of the committee, wish to press these amendments.
mr president, i wish to express my support and the support of my group for the rapporteur and the amendments retabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. the council's common position improved the methods of traceability for consumer products, cooperation between authorities, producers and distributors in taking action to withdraw and recall dangerous products, and the opening up of the rapid alert system to the applicant countries. i am very pleased that it has now been made clear that charity shops, car-boot sales and flea-market stalls will not be harmed by this directive as, by their very nature, they cannot provide information on product risk and product origin for second-hand goods. i support the environment committee's retabled amendments, in particular the specific reference to the precautionary principle, to market monitoring and the european product safety network. i strongly oppose exempting provisionally banned products from the export ban. this would be double standards and would go against the very aim of the directive. if there is concern about the safety of a product, then how can we justify exporting it to third countries? as the rapporteur said earlier: safety should be assured for all consumers, not just those in the european union. i agree with the need for a fair balance between ensuring that products put on the market are safe and that the measures proposed can be practically implemented – this directive can achieve that.
commission. – mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, mrs gonzález álvarez, and mr whitehead and mr lange for their very comprehensive contribution to the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on general product safety. there is a formal revision provision in the original directive. the revision coincided with a reinforced commitment by the commission to safeguard the health and safety of consumers. the revised directive will progressively lead to a substantial improvement in the possibilities for dealing with safety problems of non-food products. the council common position takes account of the fundamental points of the amended proposal adopted by the commission in the light of the first reading opinion. 21 out of 30 amendments from the first reading have been incorporated in part or in substance in the common position. many of the proposed amendments of the gonzález álvarez recommendation are an improvement to the text and can therefore be accepted by the commission. allow me to address the amendments with which the commission cannot agree. first amendments nos 2 and 9 reinstate the text of the commission's original proposal for a ban on exports of dangerous products withdrawn from the eu market following an emergency decision. amendment no 13 justifies this with the risk of reimportation to the community market of such products which have been exported. the compromise in the common position would make it possible for the commission to provide for exemptions from an outright ban on the export of such products. this was accepted by the commission, because it was considered by many member states as a safeguard necessary for them to accept the very principle of a ban; moreover the compromise leaves it up to the commission to decide whether waiving the ban is justified. the risk of reimportation of exported goods can be kept under control with the normal mechanism of customs and market surveillance. overall, i consider that the impact of this exemption would be very limited, would be under very tight control and supervision by the commission itself and obviously would only operate in circumstances where it was justified, clearly rationalised and clearly acceptable and not just to me, but to the entire commission. secondly, amendment no 3 introduces a requirement in an article that external certification should be regarded as a proof of conformity with the directive. the commission can only accept a reference in a recital that such certification can facilitate proving such compliance. thirdly, amendment no 11 invites the commission to submit proposals related to the safety of services before a specified date. the commission is in fact already analysing and considering this issue as it has announced in a statement. recital 1 would include a reference to these initiatives, as suggested by amendment no 1. finally, amendment no 12 seeks to limit the export ban so that it shall not be applied when a product has temporarily been banned from the community market for the period needed for further safety investigations. it cannot be justified to permit exports of products banned from the community market on the basis of a potential serious risk. in my view, this action must protect consumers outside the european union in the same way as it protects consumers within the european union; and it occurs to me that if an emergency measure is being taken in this way, it is highly probable that it is an emergency measure because of the nature of the danger involved and very often the most serious emergencies result from the fact that the danger is the greatest. if that is the case and if my assessment is correct, it means there is a greater need for this emergency proposal to apply not only to consumers within the european union, but also to consumers outside the european union. moreover, it is clear from this legislation that the evaluation as to whether it should apply in this way or not, will be undertaken by the appropriate committee which will be charged with this kind of work, experienced in doing this kind of work, which does not act precipitously or in a manner that would not fully protect the interests of consumers. the committee will only operate where there is a clear and serious danger to consumers. having explained why the commission cannot accept amendments nos 2, 3, 9, 11, 12, 13, i can inform you that the commission can, in principle or in reworded versions, accept amendments nos 1, 4 to 8 and 10, as these amendments constitute an improvement and clarification of the proposal. to conclude, i wish to thank mrs gonzález álvarez again for the excellent report which can be broadly supported by the commission and on those amendments with which the commission cannot agree, i am convinced that a satisfactory conclusion can be found as identified and stated by mr whitehead. i hope that this will be achieved as quickly as possible in the next stage of the regulatory process.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0142/2001) by mr robert william sturdy, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1254/1999 on the common organisation of the market in beef and veal (com (2001) 87 - c5-0082/2001 - 2001/0042 (cns)).
rapporteur. – mr president, it is a pleasure to see the commissioner here. i may well disagree with his proposals but i wish to begin by saying that we believe that commissioner fischler is an excellent agriculture commissioner, although he might have got this report slightly wrong. that is no criticism of mr fischler himself. it is well known that we need to address the serious problem facing the beef industry, and that is certainly what brought about the commission's proposal. i say to the commissioner that there is a byzantine proverb: for those who have food, there are many problems; for those who have not, there is only one problem, and it is, of course, a great problem when there is too much beef in the marketplace. this is exactly what the commissioner is trying to address. however, in my opinion as rapporteur, he has missed the mark. it is easy for me to stand here and criticise, but what i tried to do in my report was to be constructive and move the situation forward – i realise that the commissioner does not agree with some of the measures. i hope that when the commissioner addresses us he will perhaps answer one question: will the 15 council members agree with the commission's proposals? i think they might not. i should like to know whether the view of the commission is that they will agree with the commission's proposals or not. first, the one thing that was voted out in the committee on agriculture that i believe was a mistake was the 90-head limit. one of the major problems that we have – and the commissioner is quite right that we have a problem with overproduction and we have pushed forward the proposals to allow the intervention limits to be raised – is that by changing the 90-head limit there is a real risk that we cut off some of those producers in their prime. i say to those members who do not understand agriculture that to raise a beef animal from conception to the actual marketplace takes somewhere in the region of three years. it is a very long process. you cannot switch off something like that overnight and just say: well, hang on a minute, these cattle cannot be supported because suddenly we have changed our minds. if the commissioner cannot at least change that 90-head limit – and we hope that one of the amendments may help us; we are looking at that at the moment – then at least he should look at helping those farmers who are affected by the 90-head limit so that they can adjust, because agriculture is a long-term process, not a short-term process. we have seen the effects of bse. this is again why i am concerned a little about the report. as the commissioner knows, bse has been a major problem in the united kingdom. it has been the archetype of the bse crisis. we got through it and with careful construction we brought our market back. it was rather unfortunate that foot-and-mouth disease played a part in destroying the very work that had been done to get the marketplace back, bearing in mind that foot and mouth has nothing to do with food, in as much as it is of no danger to the public. i ask the commissioner not to make knee-jerk reactions, because i believe this is a knee-jerk reaction. at the moment i cannot accept the new amendments tabled. i have a great concern that we are trying to move away from the real issues here. as i said, it is easy to stand here and criticise and i hope the commissioner takes on board the amendments. the question we ask is whether or not the proposals satisfy the requirements: i believe a few of the commission's proposals do but the majority fall short. i leave the commissioner with one last thought: if he finds it impossible to accept parliament's proposals, then he may wish to see the report referred back to the committee on agriculture. then we could rediscuss it, because we have put forward some good proposals and if it is a wish of this august house that it be referred back, then so be it.
mr president, the seven-point plan was proposed, as we are all aware, in response to serious concerns about falling consumer confidence in beef and the resulting pressure on the intervention ceiling. we understand that these concerns have abated somewhat in recent weeks and that consumption forecasts have now improved significantly. if the commission still believes that emergency measures should be introduced to inhibit over-supply in the beef and veal sector then these changes should not jeopardise the long-term future of the quality, grass-fed beef sector. for this reason we would oppose any alteration to the existing rules for suckler cow premia and beef special premia. attention should instead – in our view – be focused on the removal of surplus calves from the system. whilst respecting the aims of agenda 2000 we would therefore seek renewed justification from the commission of the need for such radical proposals and would call for the re-evaluation of these measures.
i would like to congratulate robert sturdy on bringing forward a common-sense report here. i would also call upon the commission to accept the recommendations. otherwise the report should be referred back to committee, because the key to european beef production is quality, and that is what we can sell to the consumer. i think we have to take out the poor-quality calves that are born so that in the long run we can produce quality beef. an attack on suckler cows and their numbers is exactly the wrong way to go, because this is very much quality, grass-fed beef, in which the consumer has great confidence. we need to take a much more positive approach to selling beef again. i think the uk has shown that. we have now returned to consumption above that of the 1996 level, therefore we need to move forward. the 90-head limit is wrong and to bring in individual claims will be a bureaucratic nightmare. we really have to move forward. destruction is also the key. if you are going to have a buy-up scheme for the over thirty-month cattle, then for goodness sake destroy them, do not bring them back onto the market at a future date, because this will be lower-quality beef, and if you are not very careful, this will actually destroy the future recovery of the market. mr busk made a good point. if these cattle over thirty months old are tested and found not to have bse, why cannot they be provided as aid in the future. why do we have then to destroy them? what we cannot do is to put them onto the european market. so i think the long-term solution is to take on board robert sturdy's report. let us go out and sell good-quality european beef to the consumer.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. well , first , good news . the beef markets have started to recover. the member states have given us estimates of a fall in consumption of about 10%. some third countries have also partially lifted their import bans. these positive signals must not, however, obscure the fact that even a 10% reduction in consumption is a huge challenge and that there is still a considerable backlog of beef cattle due to the lower slaughter numbers. the quantities of meat already in storage and those still to be stored must also be managed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. we must therefore continue to make efforts and do everything we can to restore the market balance in the beef and veal sector. we cannot do without the drastic measures proposed by the commission. but let me say again that these proposals are about crisis management and not about anticipated agricultural reform. the commission's emergency measures have already resulted in the withdrawal of over 400 000 tonnes of beef from the market in the first four months of this year. a little over half of it has been put into storage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. i would like to thank you, mr sturdy, for your excellent work, which you have done under great pressure of time. you said, "i tried to be constructive". i would say, you were constructive! the amendments contain several statements with which i fully agree. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, since we have already taken account of the option of food aid and the berlin ceiling is a conditio sine qua non, it is not necessary to include these points in the recitals of the draft regulation. i regret that you do not agree with my proposal to introduce individual ceilings for the special premium, as amendments nos 1, 2 and 10 show, nor do you agree with the reduction of the overall amount of these premiums. i am very interested in amendment no 12, which proposes that farms with more than 90 animals be allowed to receive premiums of up to 50% of the cost of labour. the technical implementation of this proposal would be very complicated, but i will nevertheless keep an eye on it and will be advocating in the council for a deviation from the maximum number of 90 animals, provided that environmental and employment aspects are taken into account. i can also agree with the idea of motion no 11. it suggests that the second special premium for bulls should be granted temporarily also for animals for which a bull premium has already been paid, provided that the total amount of the premiums paid for these animals does not exceed the amount normally paid for a single bull in total. i do not see myself in a position to accept amendments nos 3, 13 and 17, which are designed to increase premiums to compensate for the reduction in the staffing factor. such a measure would run counter to the objective of reducing production, since farmers would continue to receive the same premium per hectare as before. the increase in premiums called for in amendments nos 14, 15 and 18 is already de facto covered by the current extensification premium. the proposal in amendment no 14 to increase the premium for oxen in order to favour this slower mode of production seems to me interesting. such a measure would, however, fundamentally alter the balance achieved by agenda 2000. the same applies to amendment no 27, which aims to apply the stocking density factor to the slaughter premium. i therefore prefer not to include these changes in the current crisis management package but to come back to them in the mid-term review. the purpose of fixing the minimum number of heifers in the mother cow herd is to allow the granting of premiums for non-breeding animals. so it's a kind of severance package. in other words, a payment which is clearly independent of production. however, this payment is only meaningful if the minimum rate exceeds the normal reproduction rate for cows. i therefore prefer to stick to the minimum 20% of pig fat which i have proposed. i am therefore unfortunately obliged to reject amendment no 16. the abolition of the minimum age for the calf slaughter premium proposed in amendment no 19 may seem tempting to those who have defended the herod premium in the past. i do not think that this point is justifiable in the eyes of the animal welfare consumer. the idea of increasing the slaughter premium for calves proposed in amendment no 21 seems logical at first sight, because it is aimed at increasing the production of veal and reducing the production of red meat. i have doubts about the effectiveness of such a measure, however, since the production of veal normally corresponds to the consumption of veal and i do not think that an increase in consumption of veal is to be expected as a result of an increase in premiums. in addition, this proposal would impose a significant burden on the eu budget. amendment no 28, which seeks to limit an increase in the slaughter premium for calves to those fed on full milk and raised on pasture, is not technically feasible in my view. finally, i welcome the proposal in amendments nos 6, 7, 8 and 22, namely to try to regain consumer confidence by means of an information programme and thus increase consumption. i think it is important to introduce a suitable programme as soon as possible. i do not therefore believe that the creation of a new legal basis as from 1 january 2002 will meet the objective of rapid action. my staff have already worked very hard to create such a programme on the basis of the legislation now in force and to implement it as quickly as possible. as you can see from my reactions, this report and the exchange of views on it have been extremely fruitful. even if i cannot accept many of your amendments in their current form, the commission agrees with you on many points of substance. i shall pass these suggestions on to the council next week, which i hope will take a political decision on this package. i would like to conclude by answering mr alavanos' question, which asked me what i would say to my patron saint if i were to go to heaven one day, god willing. i will tell him that it is true that many animals have had to be slaughtered during this crisis, but it is also true that i have worked within the framework of the commission and with the help of the european parliament to ensure that the best possible treatment of animals in the world continues. (applause from the centre)
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- (nl) mr president, mr prodi, you have spoken of the sustainable development that must take place on a world scale. he mentioned a number of initiatives which are valid throughout europe. that's great. there is also a discussion on whether european companies should perhaps report not only on the social and environmental standards they adhere to within europe, but also on which social and environmental standards they adhere to when investing abroad. how do they behave when they invest in asia, africa or latin america? would it not be a good idea to start a discussion with the big companies about the need for them to respect european environmental standards even when they invest in taiwan, namibia or brazil? a large company like volkswagen is already pursuing such a strategy. in this way europe could do something for the environment outside europe too, and this is a concrete initiative. perhaps after a few years we could make this strategy compulsory, but first we must start a dialogue with the big companies.
- madam president, i listened with interest to president prodi's words: he's got some great ideas. much can be achieved but clearly it must be done step by step and the rather eclectic list of points that the president has listed whose outcome is unclear moves in one direction. however, one of the aspects that does not require new legislation, as he proposed, and which will bring us some important first steps closer to sustainability is simply the implementation and enforcement of existing environmental legislation in the union. if this happens in the next five years, no new studies or new rules will be needed and this will be a shining example for the candidate countries of what they have to do to become members of the union. the commissioner can tell me what his intentions are in this regard?
madam president, i have listened with interest to what mr prodi said. he has some very good ideas. a lot can be achieved but clearly it has to be done step by step. and the rather eclectic list of issues he has listed – the outcome of which is not yet clear – are going in one direction. however, one thing that does not require any new legislation, as he has proposed, and which will take us on some important first steps towards sustainability is clearly and simply the implementation and enforcement of existing environmental legislation within the union. if this is done within the next five years, we will not need any new studies or legislation and it will be a shining example to the candidate countries of what they must do to become members of the union. will the commissioner tell me what he is going to do about that?
commission. – obviously, we will want to take account of the honourable member's views and the views of parliament in preparing for the conference, which the honourable member quite rightly points to as an important event in mobilising, not just the international conscience, but international actions in order to deal with abuses which we all condemn. as for an oversight of practice in individual countries, we do, of course, have the possibility of applying the essential elements clauses in our agreements under the cotonou agreement in order to try to keep a check on what is happening. it is important to recognise the multiplicity of reasons for the problem and to recognise the complexity of some of the solutions which are required, which in my judgement go right to the heart of what we often talk about in relation to poverty alleviation as the central part of our development assistance programmes. i draw attention, for example, to the unicef strategy based on the convention on rights of the child, which in my judgement goes to the centre of this debate. unicef strategy focuses on four main areas. first of all, raising awareness about the problem, which we are trying to do. secondly, providing economic support to families at risk and appropriate social welfare. again, that is part of our global strategy for poverty alleviation. next, improving access to and quality of education and finally putting the case for children's rights and training law enforcement officials and judicial authorities. unicef offers an extremely convincing analysis and a convincing way forward and i hope along with the contributions made by members of this parliament, it will provide us with an intellectual framework for our preparations for the conference later this year.
i have a similar question. i think the answer was given adequately.
the commission. according to article 13 of the treaty, the fight against discrimination, the basis for anti-discrimination policies, is clear. but under article 13 direct effect is not possible and it does not create individual rights. the possibility of bringing an action before the court of justice and the full implementation of the anti-discrimination policy imply the implementation at national level of directive 2000/78, that is, the anti-discrimination directive adopted by the council. this directive establishes a general framework for any indirect discrimination, including on grounds of religion or belief. in particular, there is article 4 (2), which deals specifically with churches, but also other public and private associations based on religion and belief. this provision allows employers who are religious to justify different treatment on the grounds of religion or belief, but always by considering this prohibition in the context of the nature of the work and the general conditions. the case of these exceptions is usually concerned with the selection of employees whose nature of work affects the ethics or morals of the particular organisation. but it can never be a rule.
i am glad that the commissioner has confirmed the principle of non-discrimination on the grounds of religion. i am concerned over the practice in some member states. as she may be aware, in the united kingdom there is a clergyman – the reverend raymond owen – who has been refused permission to go to an industrial tribunal to resolve outstanding issues relating to his dismissal by the church authorities. this would not have been the case in various other member states, or had he been a religious minister from a non-christian organisation. this case seems to exemplify the discrimination that exists against christian ministers of religion in certain member states of the union when they are in dispute with their ecclesiastical authorities. united kingdom law fails to incorporate properly the council directive of 14 october 1991 – most notably article 8 which notes that member states are allowed to exclude certain limited cases of employment. however, the uk employment rights act of 1996, in part 13, chapter 1, specifies particular types of employment that are excluded from the act but makes no reference to the clergy, therefore implying that the clergy is covered by legislation, which is not in fact the case. i hope the commissioner will agree to look in detail at this case and receive the reverend owen and representatives from his trade union so we can make a formal complaint.
the commission. the commission is preparing a communication on corporate social responsibility, which is essentially a green paper, and the dialogue will start in june. but i must make it clear that the principle on which the green paper is based is that any action concerning corporate social responsibility, corporate social action, is not about their compliance with the legislation in force, which is a given. when we talk about corporate social responsibility and new actions, we are talking about greater investment in people, in the environment, in the social environment and the space in which they are located and, of course, beyond the commitments and obligations they have under the law. i would like to make it clear that, as far as legislation is concerned, it sets the minimum standards that businesses must meet. as far as the logic of corporate social responsibility is concerned, it concerns higher standards which are a basis for the evolution of the functioning of enterprises.
i wish i was as confident as the commissioner that compliance with present legislation by companies is something we take for granted. sadly in recent years we have all too often seen some companies – not the majority – responsible for abuses in third countries, including the problem of child labour on which she was so eloquent when we spoke together at the eu committee of the us chamber of commerce, to which i refer in the question. i am asking her for an assurance that parliament's call for a legal base for monitoring european companies' actions in third countries will be included as one of the options in the green paper. i share her view that voluntary action is important. however, i put to her that she has to include the option of regulation. when we look at the actions against bribery and sex tourism, and when we look at the recent very interesting draft report of the international council on human rights on the legal accountability of businesses, we see that world institutions are considering legal actions and legal responsibilities. i want an assurance that this will be discussed and therefore form the basis for consultations through her green paper.
- doc. a5-0129/2001 by mrs langenhagen, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the conclusion of the fourth protocol laying down the conditions governing fishing provided for in the agreement on fisheries between the european economic community, of the one part, and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland, of the other part (com (2000) 865 - c5-0028/2001 - 2000/0348 (cns)). the commissioner is not here, but i'm assured he's on his way. in order not to waste time, i propose that we begin the debate.
- i'd like to welcome the commissioner. we understand the difficulties you have encountered this evening, but we thought it appropriate - and the rapporteur agreed - to continue the debate, knowing that you are aware of our situation.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. first of all, i should like to thank you very much, mrs langenhagen, for your excellent report on the conclusion of the fourth protocol to the fisheries agreement between the community and greenland. i am also pleased that you, as rapporteur, are recommending that the proposal be adopted. the fourth protocol, which was initialled in copenhagen on 13 september 2000, also lays the foundations for a reassessment of relations between the community and greenland. the main measure for this reassessment is described in article 14 of the protocol. a commission interdepartmental working group will examine measures to create more transparency and accountability in relations with greenland. that review shall take place by 30 june 2003 at the latest. the aim of this interim report is to lay a new foundation for future cooperation between the community and greenland. the european parliament will of course be involved in the drafting of such an agreement, within the framework of the provisions in force. what are the main aspects of the fourth protocol? first of all, the fishing quotas. they have been reduced compared with the third protocol in order to establish fishing opportunities which are actually available. this is particularly true of cod, which has been reduced from 31 000 tonnes to 2 000 tonnes; the commission has also decided to reduce the number of redfish from 52 000 to 31 000 and the number of grenadier fish from 8 000 to 3 350 tonnes. a new article was inserted to strengthen cooperation within regional fisheries organisations, particularly in the implementation of monitoring and control systems and in the field of research. the financial compensation was set at eur 42.8 million, taking into account the desire of both parties for close and stable relations and the development needs of greenland and inflation. i would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that the commission supports the reasoning behind most of the amendments and will cooperate constructively with parliament on these matters. the commission has, however, to distance itself from the amendments in their present form for formal reasons. the commission has not yet adopted the proposal. the commission supports parliament's wish to be adequately informed in advance of budgetary matters or other aspects of the implementation of the protocol. however, the commission is already providing data in accordance with the interinstitutional agreements. the commission therefore considers that the request is not necessary. on amendment no 3: the commission considers that this amendment is also largely covered by interinstitutional agreements, in particular the framework agreement of 5 july 2000. the cost-benefit analysis referred to is part of the information provided to parliament before a protocol is renewed. the commission considers that there is little point in an annual cost-benefit analysis. the commission cannot therefore accept this request either. amendment no 4 is rejected by the commission in principle because it is contrary to the usual practice of protocols to fisheries agreements and because it affects the commission's negotiating powers. since the protocol forms an annex to the framework agreement, no new mandate is required for its renewal. it goes without saying, however, that the commission, as negotiator, will ensure that the negotiating directives laid down by the council for the negotiations are respected. in the case of the fourth protocol with greenland, the commission therefore proposed negotiating directives - which were adopted by the council - because it wanted to introduce several substantial changes compared with the previous protocol, in particular the provision on an interim balance. the commission will endeavour to keep parliament and, in particular, the committee on fisheries adequately informed. the commission cannot accept the proposed amendments nos 5, 6 and 7 because they encroach on the commission's powers. the commission agrees with amendment no 8 in substance, but it would precede the interim balance, and we do not think that would be sensible. the commission cannot accept amendments nos 9 and 10 because they are not in line with certain principles of the common fisheries policy. amendment no 9 does not take account of the principle of relative stability, which guarantees certain member states certain fishing quotas in greenland waters. i would add that the commission has always encouraged the member states to make the fullest possible use of their fishing rights and has always referred to the possibilities of quota exchange. amendment no 10 would introduce a 100% share of the cost of the agreement by the fishermen, which is not the case with any agreement so far. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0128/2001) by mr miranda, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 2820/98 applying a multiannual scheme of generalised tariff preferences for the period 1 july 1999 to 31 december 2001 in order to extend the duty-free regime without any quantitative limitation to products originating in the least-developed countries (com (2000) 561 - c5-0136/2001 - 2000/0239 (cos)).
mr president, while some of the motivations behind this initiative are obviously very good, the greens/efa group has a number of questions about the initiative, both on the details and the general thrust. on the detail, as has been said, about 99% of ldc exports already enter eu markets duty free. the problem is not so much about access as about supply-side constraints, about issues concerning infrastructure, education and training. agriculture is the key area where ldcs do not currently have access, yet it is precisely the area in which we see delays in relation to sugar, rice and bananas. others have raised legitimate concerns about food security in poorer countries. rather than using their land for ever-increasing exports of agricultural commodities to the north, there are important questions to be asked about feeding their own populations. i want to raise the question of the general principle behind this initiative. when i was at the acp meeting in gabon earlier this year, commissioner nielson praised the initiative by saying that it was a great sign of progress that poor countries are now being thrust into competition with each other. to me that is not a sign of progress, but a sign of madness. if the poorer countries compete with each other on small numbers of commodities that can only bring down international prices, with the winners being those in the north, not those in the south. markets in the north are not, sadly, infinite. we are already seeing how the eba risks undermining the cotonou agreement and how the preferential access that has already been guaranteed to acp countries is now coming under threat. in some senses the eu is being accused of taking from the poor to help the poorest. finally, i am concerned that open markets and global integration are becoming a substitute for development policies. we need to think more imaginatively about supporting poorer countries in their own regional development strategies.
mr president, as the socialist shadow rapporteur on ‘everything but arms’ i welcome this agreement as a significant step in advancing fairer trade access to bring development to the world's poorest countries. commissioner lamy has been accused of many things in bringing this forward: of a cynical attempt to buy votes in the wto; of seducing developing countries into untrammelled free trade; of seeking to divide the solidarity of the acp countries; of robbing the poor to pay the poorest. each of these criticisms has some validity and we need to keep them at the front of our concerns as we take this issue forward. but mr lamy should be congratulated, after years of inaction, for helping us take a huge step towards bringing down agricultural protectionism which – according to the united nations – robs developing countries of some usd 100 billion a year, more than twice the amount of international aid flows. in his reply, let me ask the commissioner to address some important questions. when ingo feustal of dg trade told our committee on development and cooperation on 6 march that cotonou consultation procedures had been followed and joint impact assessments would be produced, the commissioner should honestly accept tonight that declaration xxiii of the cotonou agreement, requiring a joint-ministerial trade committee recommendation, was not observed and that no such assessments have yet been produced. mr lamy should commit the eu to providing the aid required by the ldcs to exploit the new opportunities and by other acp countries to achieve transition. he should recognise that the eu is currently badly failing to fulfil its promise to the rum-producing countries. mr lamy should guarantee that administrative arrangements will prevent hygiene rules being used as a disguised form of protectionism and, at the same time, apply rules of origin which prevent fraud but enable ldcs to add value to their raw materials. finally, mr lamy and i both come from sugar-producing regions. like him i strongly resisted those who sought to scare our farmers and industry with wholly misleading claims about the consequences of the proposal. we all know they are dwarfed in reality by the impact of the sugar protocol within the common agricultural policy.
commission - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr miranda, for his valuable support of the commission's initiative, which is now the union's initiative. this opening of our markets to the poorest countries - full opening this time - has been generally welcomed, but it is true and normal that this proposal has raised some concerns and criticism both in your house and in the council. i shall therefore try to answer very briefly the various points which have been discussed, starting with the impact of this proposal, which we have sometimes been told would open the door to a massive influx of agricultural products from the ldcs onto the community market; your report itself relates the concessions that are made in terms of volume. it is true, as you have said, that these countries account for only 0.4% of total world trade and 1% of the european union's imports. these figures are therefore not likely to increase suddenly and dramatically, especially when the export capacities of these countries are known; we are also working to increase these, particularly through health standards - as mr kreissl-dörfler has pointed out - but also, more generally, through improved infrastructure. it is not, therefore, in our mind, in the mind of the commission, in the mind of poul nielson or in my mind, a substitute for aid, and i answer mrs lucas precisely on this point. on the subject of deadlines, it is true that the commission has reviewed its original proposal in the light of the discussions we have had on the impact of this proposal. it is true that we have adjusted the timetable to implement a gradual but eventually complete opening up of bananas, sugar and rice. it is on this basis that the council has taken its final decision. some regret these concessions; i would probably have preferred not to have had to do so myself, but our common law is qualified majority voting and we had to get a qualified majority. as regards compliance with the cotonou agreements, i would remind you that the acp ministers welcomed this proposal last december and stressed the need to comply with the agreement, which we did. the commission has consulted mrs boudjenah and mr rod and the acp states on its proposal and is currently consulting with the acp states on the arrangements required to maintain the competitiveness of these countries, in accordance with this declaration 23which was rightly quoted by mr howitt. the report shows that not everyone agrees on the timetable and the means of achieving this. we're taking a step in the right direction. we strive to harmonize our words with our actions. let us start by implementing this proposal and encourage other trading partners, as proposed by mr belder, to move in this direction too. the commission shares the rapporteur's view on the consultation of parliament. this is a decision which should have been subject to the codecision procedure if the proposals of the commission and parliament to the intergovernmental conference on the reform of article 133 had been accepted by the member states. we now know that this was not the case and that we are therefore bound by the rules of the treaty which, unfortunately, have not been changed on this point of involving the european parliament. we have therefore, and i personally, in accordance with the commitments i made when i took office, worked directly with the various committees of your assembly, with the committee on development in january, with the committee on agriculture at the end of january and with the committee on industry in february, and i fully intend to continue, unfortunately with insufficient treaty texts, this practice of working on all the important phrases of our trade policy with your assembly. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this report is a valuable contribution to our efforts to avoid the marginalization of ldcs in a globalising trading system. today's discussion is rather welcome - as mrs ferrer has said - in view of the conference which is currently taking place in brussels. i believe that this report confirms the broad consensus between our two institutions on our main objectives for the management of the multilateral trading system. it is a small step, as mr martínez said, not a big one, but one which is nevertheless politically important, no more and no less. we must now work hard to make it a reality. thank you for your attention.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the joint debate on two recommendations for second reading: - a5-0140/2001 by mr watts, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 95/21/ec on the application to ships calling at community ports or in waters under the jurisdiction of member states of international standards for maritime safety, pollution prevention and shipboard living conditions (port state control) (5179/1/2001 - c5-0074/2001 - 2000/0065 (cod)) - a5-0144/2001 by mr ortuondo larrea, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 94/57/ec establishing common rules and standards for ship inspection and survey organisations and for the relevant activities of maritime administrations (5178/1/2001 - c5-0075/2001 - 2000/0066 (cod)).
rapporteur. – mr president, i begin by paying tribute to the council and the commission for the efforts they have both made to reach an agreement on a text which i believe will significantly improve maritime safety. but the question that has yet to be satisfactorily answered is why did the erika have to break up for the glaring deficiencies in maritime safety to become apparent? indeed we only need to look at statistics produced by the paris mou organisation to see the appalling state of too many of the world's ships. these statistics were available long before the erika and continue to show that standards are actually deteriorating. as rapporteur, i maintain my position that the erika package will help to improve maritime safety but i am afraid will not prevent another erika. i do not make that point lightly. it will only, as an amendment to an existing directive, be effective if the member states concerned are willing to implement it effectively. if you look at the existing controls, several member states simply fail to fulfil their legal responsibilities. i am very pleased that the commissioner has taken swift and decisive action to try to ensure that this is no longer the case. i welcome the joint determination on the part of the institutions to toughen these measures. in particular, i recommend that we support the proposals to focus our checks on the black-listed flag states and introduce a ‘three strikes and you're out’ rule whereby a ship detained for the third time within a specific period will be banned from europe's ports. i regret the lack of progress on the issue of the voyage data recorder, the ‘black box’. we believe, as a parliament – and we have said this many times in the past – that this is essential for both environmental and safety reasons. we are pleased that the commission favours, in principle, a ‘black box’ being fitted to all ships. we are pleased that the council has made a political commitment to this effect. but what we need is not a political commitment but a legally binding commitment to ensure that these are introduced to old ships and new within five years. the case for fitting vdrs has been made very often. indeed the imo itself has agreed in principle that they should be fitted. vessels fitted with voyage data recorders have a better safety awareness and a better safety record. in other words, it is not just useful after the event but contributes – in my view – to a change of the safety culture for every ship to be fitted with a ‘black box’ voyage data recorder. according to the uk marine accident investigation branch, the reluctance to accept the value of data recorders and take positive measures to fit them in merchant vessels is "a contributory factor to the poor safety record of some ships sailing today". a ship fitted with a ‘black box’ is a safer ship. i know that the commissioner and the commission have worked hard to try to seek a compromise in this very difficult and complex area. i would welcome tonight a report back on progress with regard to reaching a satisfactory compromise on the particular issue of the ‘black box’. the public simply will not understand why, after so many tragic events at sea – the herald of free enterprise, the scandinavian star, the estonia, the erika and many others – we cannot just get on and fit ‘black box’ voyage data recorders. finally, i thank my parliamentary colleagues for the assistance they have given me over the past few months in preparing this report. i say that to colleagues from all political parties, from all member states. i also look to them for continued support through the codecision process. this, i believe, will be the first time in the field of maritime safety that we as an institution will be using the new powers granted to us by the amsterdam treaty. let us use them so that we can look in the eye the families that have lost loved ones at sea and say to them that we will not compromise on safety.
commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done over the years on these two very important proposals. i would remind you that the erika package, as has already been said, was presented just after a truly regrettable disaster, which caused environmental problems for 400 kilometres of european coastline; that we acted swiftly and correctly on the proposals, but unfortunately we were not able to reach an agreement between the three institutions in the informal trilogue. and what the commission regrets most is that we were so close to achieving it, we missed something. in the end it was non-essential issues that separated us, but i fear that these issues will force us to go to conciliation and it will take three or four months more to reach agreement on the proposals. all this while we can all be very proud - parliament, the commission and the council - because, thanks to our firmness, and especially the parliament and the commission, thanks to our work, by common agreement, we have succeeded in getting the international maritime organization to adopt practically in all its extremes our demands on the use of the double hull as a better or equivalent system to ensure greater safety on oil tankers, setting maximum deadlines for maintaining and allowing the arrival of single hull oil tankers in our ports. we must accept the facts, but the commission will of course continue to work to ensure that we reach this agreement as soon as possible between the three institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the debate has highlighted the issues relating to crews. i agree with the honourable members - and many have raised this - that the problem of crews is a key one. we have tabled a communication on shipping, crews, preparedness and training; we believe that positive proposals must also be made and we are looking at how to extend the benefits of proposals such as the tonnage tax currently in force in great britain, how to encourage other member states to take such measures, because, of course, many times disasters are simply caused by human error. it is true that there are others due to substandard ships, as has been said here, but all too often it is a matter of human error, of lack of preparation, sometimes even of such details as speaking different languages and not understanding each other, and things of that sort. so we must also stress this because there are safety aspects to it. and now to the proposals. as regards amendment no 1 to the port state control directive, i would like to say - as i have said on other occasions - that the commission fully shares the rapporteur's view, mr watts, that the installation of black boxes should be made compulsory, gradually, in the fleets of vessels bound for ports in the european union. but we insist that this is not the place, we have raised this in the erika ii package, parliament is discussing it and i understand that it is not in this directive that we should raise it. we also believe that the proposal to ban a ship automatically because it does not have a black box is not practical. it is clear that a ship cannot be prohibited from sailing without prior inspection and, as a matter of principle, the prohibition cannot be used as the solution to any problem of safety on board ships. in the port state control system, the appropriate response to such deficiency is the inspection and subsequent detention of the ship. the proposed amendment also covers vessels of more than 300 gross tonnes, which goes far beyond both the international regime and the commission proposal, which only covers those of more than 3000 gross tonnes. in addition, it is very likely that ships will be provided with a simplified transit data recorder at international level, which will have a much lower cost of incorporation and which will, however, provide the essential data, which is so important in addition to facilitating inspections by port authorities. the commission also considers that the proposed amendment should not be included in article 7, since it concerns sanctions against prolonged non-compliance by vessels which do not comply with the minimum standards or fly the flag of convenience, and here we are referring to sanctions against a specific deficiency against a vessel. but above all, we believe that these questions are more concerned with the future amendment which should be introduced in the other proposal which is part of the erika ii package. i agree, mr watts - i have said this to you many times - that it is absolutely necessary and right to put in black boxes. the problem is where. the voyage data recorder should also be considered. we must consider the possibility of a combination or simply think of one system or the other depending on the type of vessel and the type of cargo it carries. as for amendment no 2 on the review clause, the commission can accept it, but the review process should take into account a period of three years after the date of application of the directive, and not after its entry into force, since the application of the directive needs to be assessed after a significant period of time. with this partial amendment we have no problem accepting it. as regards the second element of the package, the directive on classification societies, i would like to stress that i fully agree with the rapporteur, mr ortuondo larrea, and also with the other members of parliament, who believe that it is very easy for member states simply to put the whole burden of responsibility on the classification societies, and thus exclude their own responsibility for the actual control by the port authorities. as regards the question of liability, which is the most controversial amendment, i would like to stress that unlimited liability is already a principle in the case of serious misconduct. i regret that in the end, because of the problem of minor failures, we were not able to reach agreement on this initiative. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of ships is not compromised by the fact that the safety of ships is not guaranteed by the safety of ships. but, finally, focusing on the proposed amendments to the classification societies directive, i would point out that the commission can accept amendments nos 2, 5, 6 and partly 7 - provided that the reference to which is a duplication of imo resolution 847/20 is deleted. however, we cannot accept amendment no 1. in this respect we agree with parliament that there should be no family or business ties between the shipowner and the classification society, and that is already reflected in the text. the problem is that their proposal goes one step further, so that the implementation is practically unfeasible. i hope you can reconsider this amendment because i really think it would be in everyone's interest. amendments nos 3 and 4 deal with the critical issue of liability. parliament wants to establish maximum liability quotas, and i agree that the principle of liability should be maintained. the commission has in fact sought the higher level of harmonisation by proposing maximum figures. however, i must remind you that on all other issues we have reached agreement. that said, we must try to get the proposal through as soon as possible. we shall have to seek agreements if we cannot reach a second reading. the commission will always be there to propose formulas and seek mediation, but in any case i would like to reiterate once again the excellent work done by the two rapporteurs, mr watts and mr ortuondo, and by the whole house, because i believe that it has been of great use not only for the commission's positions but, in general, for the proposals to improve in quality.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0151/2001) by mr van dam, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending council regulation (eec) no 881/92 on access to the market in the carriage of goods by road within the community to or from the territory of a member state or passing through the territory of one or more member states, with a view to the introduction of a uniform driving licence (com (2000) 751 - c5-0638/2000 - 2000/0297 (cod)).
commission. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i think this is one of the occasions on which the institutions are happy to show their support for a new measure to put an end to practices which could endanger the working conditions of professional drivers and the safety of our roads. the parliament, the commission and the council agree that there is a real need for a uniform document, the driver's certificate, to be issued, which will enable the competent authorities of the member states to approve whether a driver is regularly employed in the state in which the carrier is established. such a measure can of course help to ensure that working conditions in the eu are respected and, therefore, that the level of road safety demanded by european citizens is met - and not just road safety, but also to put an end to unfair competition and, therefore, to ensure that the internal market really functions properly. the basic difference in approach between our three institutions concerns the scope of this new measure. the commission proposed that all drivers engaged in international transport operations, irrespective of their nationality, should be required to obtain this certificate, in order to ensure equal treatment for all drivers and to avoid social dumping. the council, concerned about the administrative burden that issuing this document would impose on the authorities of the member states, preferred to apply the regulation first to nationals of third countries and to leave for later consideration an extension of the scope of the regulation. i think that this plenary session makes a very constructive suggestion in this regard - and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr van dam, and the rest of the committee for it. i believe that this proposal will perhaps satisfy the need for rapid results for drivers from third countries, while at the same time taking account of the difficulties faced by the member states, and will enable them to commit themselves immediately to taking on the considerable additional administrative burden that the application of the regulation would impose on drivers from the union itself. the commission considers that rapid progress in this matter would substantially increase the value of the measure itself. the commission has therefore already communicated its agreement in principle with the council's view, although it deviates somewhat from the commission's initial proposal. the position of parliament in favour of applying the regulation after a transitional period also to drivers in the member states of the union is interesting. i am convinced, above all, of the importance of the council and parliament adopting this much-needed legislation as soon as possible. i would like to make it very clear that i believe that parliament's idea of introducing a transitional phase could provide the basic elements for a compromise in the council, and i would therefore like to accept the fundamental impulse it represents to reach a solution, and so i can accept amendment no 6, which i believe can facilitate the combination of the two problems. as regards the other suggestions made by parliament, i wish to state my full agreement with the valuable proposal of parliament - as set out in its amendment no 7 - to introduce certain additional driver data in the certificate, since, in my view, this will result in the greatest clarity and precision of the certificate itself and will prevent or at least reduce the possibilities of abuse. however, i cannot accept amendments nos 1, 2, 3 and 4 because they have no effect on the achievement of the objective of this regulation. i cannot accept amendment no 5 either, because i think it would lead to confusion rather than improve the text of the regulation. i would like to thank all of you for your productive cooperation in this matter. i hope that you will accept the position i am now proposing, where i accept amendments nos 6 and 7, and that on this basis we can get a position at the next council of transport ministers which would be common at first reading, if parliament accepts the commission's position.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. the next item is the report (doc. (the sitting was closed at 11.25 p.m.)
madam president, you will be aware that the united nations conference on trade and development is currently meeting in our brussels building. you may not be aware that there are two representatives of the burmese military junta taking part in that conference. as you know, the european union has a common position, supported by this house, not to grant visas to members of the burmese military junta. yet here they are in our own building. i understand that the council has waived the ban for this conference, as it felt that this was necessary in view of its obligations to the united nations. if so, may i call on you, madam president, to ask the council or mr solana to issue a statement making it absolutely clear that this was an exception and that the visa ban and the common position are still in place.
madam president, on a point of order. i wish to draw attention to some other rather unwelcome visitors on our premises. yesterday there was a disgraceful communist demonstration in the courtyard of the tower. this is very intimidatory, as far as members are concerned; it is an intrusion on our parliamentary premises. could you look into the circumstances of this: where are the limits of this parliament and what rights do we have to exclude such people from our premises?
madam president, israel and palestine are two independent nations but they are not yet two independent states. they are two peoples who must coexist as neighbours or offer their grandchildren the prospect of eternal feuding. sadly, there is provocation by people who should be showing leadership. provocation leads to violence, which is met by violence, which leads to revenge and a slippery slope away from a just and peaceful modus vivendi. much of the solution is in israel's hands, but palestine and the neighbouring states must respond. of course i understand israel's nervousness about taking the first steps. lebanon, for example, has been in an impossible situation for years: it has been shelled by israel and infiltrated by syria, and both must help it now to provide stability in its own lands. israeli withdrawal was met responsibly by the lebanese. however, israel still holds pockets of lebanese territory in the south and has not yet provided maps of where the landmines are so that they can be cleared and, as a result, nine shepherds have been killed since the withdrawal. prisoners on both sides still have to be returned and the shebaa farms on the golan border belonging to lebanon are still held, controlled and occupied by israel. the key area of provocation has been covered by the minister and by the commissioner, including the issue of the sale in the eu of goods labelled as israeli but coming from the settlements. there are 145 settlements in the west bank, 16 in gaza, 9 in east jerusalem; 400,000 people live in them. only 42% of west bank territory is controlled by the palestinians, 58% is either in military camps or settlements and too often the military camps lead to the settlements. peace will not come from resolutions adopted here – although we can help. peace will come if, and only when, israel, palestine and the neighbouring states realise they want peace so much that they are prepared to live it.
the council. - mr. speaker, i have to go. eu-us relations are of vital importance to both europe and the us and to the rest of the world. the transatlantic relations are good. today we cooperate closely in a number of areas, and our dialogue covers virtually all major issues. we share a common responsibility to address global challenges and contribute to a more peaceful and democratic world and to a dynamic multilateral trading system. we also have differences of opinion on various issues, but we must have a close dialogue on these. since our dialogue was formalised in 1990 with the adoption of the transatlantic declaration, it has been continuously deepened and broadened. in 1995 we also adopted the new transatlantic agenda. the general affairs council, meeting on monday, welcomed the commission's communication on how to further strengthen the transatlantic dialogue and instructed the presidency and the commission to work with the united states to make the dialogue more effective and action-oriented. the council wants the dialogue, which includes regular summits, to focus on a number of strategic themes and to prioritise issues which are important for promoting continuity. the council has in particular called for the environment and climate to be one of these strategic themes. at the gothenburg summit on 14 june, the eu and the us will jointly set out a clear structure and direction for further cooperation. at the summit all the issues that have been priorities under the swedish presidency will be manifested in one way or another. the eu and the us have coordinated efforts to assist russia in implementing its disarmament and non-proliferation commitments, in particular those relating to the destruction of chemical weapons and the so-called multilateral mnepr. we have cooperated within the framework of the eu's northern dimension initiative. we have launched a multiannual cooperation on justice and home affairs, in close consultation with the forthcoming belgian and spanish presidencies, focusing on the fight against drugs, the fight against child pornography on the internet and support for russia's fight against organised crime and for the consolidation of the rule of law. we have been working together on issues related to the new economy. we have worked together to fight hiv/aids and other communicable diseases in africa. in the area of trade policy, the swedish presidency has given high priority to seeking agreement between the eu and the us on a platform which will enable new wto negotiations to be launched in the autumn. we have also stressed the importance of making concrete progress in resolving the bilateral trade disputes, which are a serious irritant to relations. the recent settlement in principle reached in the banana dispute is an example of this. however, as i said, there are also differences of opinion. the new administration's outspoken opposition to the kyoto protocol is a source of great disappointment to us. it is deeply troubling that the united states, which is responsible for 25 percent of the world's carbon dioxide emissions, chooses to side with an international agreement that has been negotiated for a decade. the new administration has justified its opposition to the kyoto protocol by saying that it does not require the same commitments from developing countries and is harmful to the us economy. we do not accept these reasons, and we do not accept, above all, that the us is thus withdrawing from the agreement. the eu's reaction to the us action has been swift and forceful. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment. the eu troika, led by environment minister larsson, travelled to washington in april to continue to try to maintain dialogue with the us on the global problem of climate change. these talks showed that the united states does not question the issue of climate change. the united states recognizes the importance of finding global solutions to the problem. the eu believes that the solution lies within the framework of the kyoto protocol, while the us insists on the need to find alternative solutions. the eu's objective is to make the protocol ratifiable within the next year with or without the us. but a protocol without the united states' participation would make it much weaker. we therefore welcome the participation of the united states in the bonn meeting on the environment in july and hope that there will be a constructive dialogue and a fruitful exchange of views. i would like to emphasise that both the eu and the us bear a heavy responsibility for global problems and challenges, such as the threat of climate change. we will never get the third world and the developing countries to stand up unless we take a joint responsibility between the eu and the united states. finally, a few words on the areas where the eu and the us are taking, and have taken, their joint responsibility. in this context, i would like to highlight in particular our joint efforts to promote peace and stability in the balkans, as well as our consultations on the situation on the korean peninsula and the middle east peace process. the eu-us relationship is of paramount importance in today's world. only through cooperation and dialogue can we meet global challenges and create the conditions for a world of peace, democracy and economic development. i therefore welcome the fact that the european parliament is taking action to develop and strengthen the dialogue with the us congress. i would also point out that a meaningful dialogue must also include issues where the eu and the us disagree. constructive dialogue is based on sincerity, and sincerity means not being afraid to express criticism. this means that the eu will continue to criticise, among other things, the us use of the death penalty. mr president, i would like to thank you. i look forward to hearing the views of the members.
commission. – mr president, i am pleased to have this opportunity to discuss transatlantic relations with the european parliament. there is a lot of talk about eu-us cooperation. there are quite a few critical voices in that chorus and we read frequently about this or that cloud casting a shadow across the relationship. but in all this, i would argue, we fail to recognise the unique nature and the unique strength of the transatlantic bond, so this is an excellent opportunity to put the record straight. this debate also gives me an opportunity to set out in a few words why the commission recently presented a communication on reinforcing the transatlantic relationship and how we would hope to see that initiative followed up in parliament and the council. the 1995 new transatlantic agenda shifted the focus of our relationship from one of consultation to joint action. since then eu-us cooperation has broadened enormously and now embraces virtually every area of eu activity, and rightly so. we share so much with the us in terms of vision, history and values. with no one else do we have such a wide range of common interests and such a strong economic base to build on. we do not, as i shall go on to say, agree about everything, but the fact that we agree about so much means that there is always a distorting focus on the minority of issues where we do not see eye to eye. i do not want to launch here into an inventory of eu-us cooperation. my point here is different. it is that we have an interest in virtually every area of activity of the union to establish close and cooperative relations with the united states. i have no sympathy for anti-americanism or anti-anyone-else-ism for that matter. i feel under no compunction to define my europeanness in terms of my attitude to the united states of america. that sort of attitude betrays a terrible lack of self-confidence in what it means to be a european. in my specific area of responsibility, the added value and positive results are obvious in our close partnership with the balkans. the minister also spoke, quite rightly, of the middle east and korea, and we could have continued like that and mentioned many other parts of the world. the european union and the us are also principal partners in addressing the new cross-cutting issues on the international agenda. communicable diseases, organised crime, drug and people trafficking, money laundering: all these manifestations of the dark side of globalisation require our concerted action and they get our joint attention. access to medicines, for example, has been lifted to the top of the agenda in eu-us relations as well as in multilateral fora. that brings me to another important point about the transatlantic partnership. it would be sad, serious and a terrible irony if the emergence of europe as a global actor in a multilateral world coincided with the turning of some american minds towards unilateralism. i hope that will not happen. it would be the reversal of the trends of the last 50 years. i had been greatly encouraged by the new administration's commitment to maintaining america's vital role in world affairs. president bush chose to emphasise the point in his inaugural speech, when he said, and i quote "america remains engaged in the world by history and by choice". obviously these hopes were somewhat deflated, as the minister said, by the subsequent statement indicating that the administration has no interest in implementing the kyoto protocol. this rightly met with dismay in europe and elsewhere, including in parts of the united states, but clearly we must not let disappointment turn into fruitless confrontation. it is vital that we persuade the united states to embrace and maintain its multilateral commitments and we in the european union can best help to do this, not by finger wagging and moralising, but by facing up to our own responsibilities and following through our own commitments with our financial assistance and other policy instruments. when the united states and the european union work together, we set the international agenda. if we are divided, the opportunity for international progress is often lost. i will be brief because i know there are some time constraints, but one could, of course, speak at length about security and defence cooperation as an important element of our partnership. the time has come for europe to shoulder its fair share of the security burden. that is all we are seeking to do, to respond to american concerns that we have not been pulling our weight. as the secretary-general of nato, lord robertson, put it very succinctly last year, this is not about europe going it alone, but about europe doing more. a properly resourced and effective esdp will allow the european union to make a much larger contribution to transatlantic security. my main concern in this area is that we might fail to deliver, not that european success in delivering would antagonise the united states. let me go back for a moment to the communication on reinforcing the transatlantic relationship, which we tabled before easter. in many ways the method of working together which we devised in 1995 was ahead of its time, but we are not resting on our laurels and would certainly be discouraged from doing so by those who have added such an important parliamentary dimension to our relationship. it would be fair to say that over the years the machinery of cooperation has grown rather more complex than we intended. so we need to look over the structures and processes of cooperation, the architecture if you like, and the plumbing of our relations, in order to ensure that the whole machinery is geared as much as possible to action and the delivery of results. the architecture is described in terms of strategic themes forming the core of the transatlantic agenda. it is a big core, because the relationship is so very wide-ranging. we identified eight such strategic themes, ranging from the emerging international security challenges, globalisation and the multilateral trading system, through energy issues and consumer protection, to the digital economy and the fight against crime. these strategic themes should not be seen as a selection of priorities, but rather as overarching principles which will remain valid over several years and provide a framework for specific issues and priorities to be tackled over a shorter time period. the plumbing part of the communication looks at the so-called nta structures and the multitude of meetings which take place within them at political and official level. our message is simple: fewer meetings, more substance and more political leadership. the first two are related to the latter, but we want political leaders on both sides of the atlantic to set the priorities and challenges their respective administrations should meet and to set deadlines for meeting those challenges as well. this will only happen if there is real business to be done and that will only be the case if we make the meetings more focussed. it is an ambitious goal. the new transatlantic agenda process is like a supertanker, or maybe it is better to call it a mixed-bulk carrier. it can carry a large and varied cargo all at once. we need to ensure its design is streamlined, simple and robust to ensure smooth passage and minimum maintenance. as the honourable members can tell, i have been thinking much about the korean shipbuilding industry recently and its impact on global trade. at the helm you should not spin the wheel widely from side-to-side, but adjust the course with small, but well-measured turns. let me end where i started. the transatlantic link in my view is our most important relationship. it is important for the european union and for the united states and indeed for the world. of course, we will not always agree on everything. i am not thinking just of trade issues, which should always be put in the wider perspective of the colossal trade flows, more than a usd 1 billion a day, which benefit both our regions, but also of more fundamental issues like environmental protection, on which the minister spoke, and capital punishment. there are no easy answers, no magic wands to make our differences disappear. however, on the larger range of issues, where the united states and the european union work together, we do set between us the international agenda. by working together across the atlantic we can advance our interests, those of our countries and their citizens, and contribute to global security more generally.
mr president, this is an important debate to hold at this juncture, after the first few months of the us administration, with the visit of president george bush to göteburg in june and the commission's initial thoughts on the common foreign and security policy. so where are we today? we have a timely communication before us, which points to the breadth and growth of the transatlantic relationship from the declaration in 1990 to the new transatlantic agenda in 1995. the number of subjects it covers will continue to grow and we will probably see a consolidation of ideas on the monetary dialogue and other aspects. secondly, the communication contains ideas on how to make the process more effective. thirdly, it underlines the importance of engaging civil society and building parliamentary links. but i think it is wise for us to ask whether these perspectives are really sufficient for the next five years. common economic interests and concerns are increasingly global and not bilateral, while regionalisation is increasingly seen as an alternative to the wto and multilateralism. us security interests are shifting towards the pacific, even if nato and eu enlargements will demand transatlantic political management in the months ahead. it is difficult to focus together on defining common strategic interests like, for example, the ukraine. in view of these aspects, my group considers this communication a disappointing one. it is more a stocktaking exercise than one that will encourage a broader transatlantic partnership. in other words, it does not match up to the requirements of the developing transatlantic partnership in the future. why, for example, have fewer summits if there are going to be more rather than fewer issues to discuss? how do you prioritise the agenda if you have already set eight strategic themes? how do you include the us congress and the european parliament in the framework without setting out any ideas for its inclusion? the communication refers to an interparliamentary assembly. that is not what it is. it is a delegation which has converted itself into the transatlantic legislators' dialogue. so we need broader thinking to develop the transatlantic partnership before 2004. it is time to get away from the humdrum bulk-carrier idea; something rather more visionary, i suspect, would be required at this stage. first, we should stake out the ground for a broader transatlantic partnership. why not make sure we can re-energise the transatlantic business dialogue? it is in some difficulty. why not think of an annual atlantic summit, which would bring together the eu, the us and nato, because politics, economics and security policy are increasingly interlinked. secondly, we should follow the ideas of the houston declaration of the us congress and the european parliament and involve the parliamentary community more in the summit process. last and not least, we should use the summit with george w. bush to draw up an agenda for the period until 2004, to establish a deeper transatlantic partnership and to fulfil the aims that both the council and the commission have said they want to achieve.
the bonn declaration was most welcome in that it committed the european union and the united states of america to a full and equal partnership, and of course the eu and the us are both partners and competitors, particularly in trade matters. it is important to stress the scale of the economic relationship currently worth usd 2 billion a day, but where there is competition there will inevitably be some areas of conflict and friction, and part of the nature of the relationship is to try and contain that friction. i would like to quote from a commission document about how to avoid or minimise new trade disputes. it says that we should consult before legislating, negotiate before litigating, compensate before retaliating and comply at any rate. that might be a lofty target but one worth aiming for. i want to comment too on commissioner patten's very welcome statement that he did not see any connection between being european and anti-americanism. he is absolutely right. to be european is also to encompass a generous inclusivity about people's notions very different from our own. there are of course important outstanding trade disputes, the foreign sales tax one in particular, and it was worrying, to say the least, that president clinton's last speech before he left office contained some barely veiled threats about the future of the airbus deal and a possible dispute. finally i want to commend the part of the resolution that welcomes the transatlantic legislative dialogue on which this parliament has set such great store, and i very much hope we want that to continue and be strengthened as part of a constructive and good-tempered dialogue.
mr president, the starting point for this debate was the us rejection of the kyoto protocol. so i welcome the strong language in our compromise resolution on this. but we need more than words. we want the commission to look at possible eu actions in response to a continued us refusal to respond to climate change, including action at the wto, on the grounds that by not internalising its external energy costs, us goods are receiving an unfair government subsidy, which is against the rules of world trade. but it is not just kyoto. let us look as well at this intent to tear up the anti-ballistic missile treaty. this "son of star wars" system threatens a massive new arms race. asking the us to consult before proceeding is not enough. we need to state very clearly that the eu calls on the us to give up this initiative and pledges itself and its member states not to take part in this project on any level. if the us spent just a fraction of the resources it currently spends on missile defence on defending itself against climate change instead, the world would be a much safer place.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am grateful to the commissioner for indicating the support of the commission, in principle, for both amendments being tabled in plenary today. but i seek clarification on amendment no 1. whilst in principle the commission is saying it supports our demand for "black box" voyage data recorders to be fitted to all ships, can it confirm that relates not just to new ships, but also to existing and old ships? it is an important clarification. i would appreciate a statement from the commissioner on that particular point.
in writing. - i abstained in the vote because no mention or condemnation was made of the recent attempt by the french parliament to stigmatize and outlaw certain protestants in france, whom it considers to be sectarian. the intolerance of the french state and courts towards these protestants should have been mentioned and condemned. the european parliament too often turns a blind eye to the persecution of these protestants within its borders.
in writing. - as a british member of parliament, i was very much afraid when the proposed directive was first considered in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy that it would deal a severe financial and bureaucratic blow to the thriving charity shop sector in britain and ireland - a trade largely unknown in the rest of the european union. these shops raise so much money for good causes and they are also extremely environmentally friendly by recycling and reusing large quantities of second-hand items, which they then sell at low prices to consumers in their retail outlets. i am therefore pleased to see that the council's common position, now back in parliament for a second reading, has been inspired by my original amendment and allows charity shops to waive the obligation to provide information on the identity of buyers, particularly of second-hand electrical and electronic products, which represent only a small part of their activities. common sense has prevailed, to the delight of the interested sector and my london constituents. i thank the rapporteur and the commission for introducing this derogation.
in writing. - i welcome this report on general product safety, which once again proves that europe is working for its citizens. across europe, citizens are increasingly concerned about the safety of consumer products, such as children's toys. we in the european parliament are approaching this problem in a balanced and sensible way. concerns were expressed that traditional british charity shops would be threatened by these proposals. i welcome the efforts of the labour members of the european parliament to prevent this type of trade from being hampered by the directive. it is ridiculous to think that charity shops, flea markets or private sales as they are generally known can provide the authorities with information about the risks and origin of second-hand products bought from the general public. overall, the directive is a huge step forward in ensuring consistent and optimal consumer protection. it also promotes the efficient functioning of the single market, not only for the benefit of businesses but also for the benefit of citizens. we cannot allow hidden dangers to threaten consumers. i urge parliament to take these proposals as a starting point for considering the safety of services and the liability of service providers, and to adopt the precautionary principle. in recent years, public confidence in the safety of products has been seriously shaken by several alarmist rumors, particularly concerning toys. only by adopting a safety-first attitude - and showing it - can we restore the citizens' confidence.
- the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation of turkish prisoners.
those of us who have studied the matter closely are certainly able to welcome the real progress that is nevertheless being made by turkey to reform its prison system. we also share something of the suffering of the political prisoners and their families who have chosen to starve themselves to death. the turkish judicial and penal system is in transition from a regime of retribution and oppression to a more western approach, where prisoners are penalised but not persecuted. the european union should assist this reform process by supporting financially and also technically certainly carefully selected confidence-building measures, without which the fasting will not cease. these measures include training of judicial officials, prison officers and gendarmes, ensuring first-class medical services, improving conditions for prison visits and installing the independent scrutiny of the prison system and protecting lawyers. solitary confinement must be the exception and not the norm. prison rules must be applied scrupulously and the arbitrary treatment of all prisoners must stop.
- mr. ceyhun, it's fair to say that your speeches don't usually cause such excitement. (laughter)
- well, the members of the house were admirably calm when the demonstration took place. let's not fight now. we don't know how they got back but this will be thoroughly investigated. the president will, of course, be informed and an investigation will be carried out. fortunately, there was a discussion at the bureau meeting on monday about strengthening security. unfortunately, no action has been taken yet.
- you must have misunderstood me, mr. swoboda. i take this incident very seriously, of course. i just think that there is no need to get angry in this house. the president will be informed of the problem and we will ask the relevant authorities to act. as i said, we had a discussion about our security system at the office on monday and the secretary-general is currently preparing a report on how to implement it. there is, however, a problem. i am a member of the committee on budgets, but i can use this platform to make propaganda: the committee on budgets blocks the release of resources for the security services. there are about 15 stations blocked. so if you want to know why we are complaining about a lack of security staff, ask the committee on budgets.
the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the honourable members who took part in the debate for a useful discussion. i think it shows a great deal of constructive commitment to the situation in turkey. i believe that the european parliament, the council and the commission must continue their joint efforts. our main message to the turkish government must be very clear on this point: immediate action is required to avoid further casualties. in this context, i would like to take the opportunity to give a warm and warm acknowledgement of the visit made by mr cohn-bendit and mr swoboda to turkey at the turn of april and may. i believe that this is precisely the kind of action needed to draw attention to the difficult situation, to report clearly and objectively to the european public what is happening. on behalf of the council, i would like to thank you for this effort. i also agree with what swoboda said about the importance of looking at the political system that produces a prison system of the kind that exists in turkey. we must, of course, tackle the issues and look at the difficult conditions in prisons, but we must also look at the bigger picture: the political system and also the economic situation. that is why, as president-in-office of the council, i have committed myself to supporting the efforts of the imf and the world bank to help the turkish government to achieve economic recovery, because we believe that this can also create conditions for, among other things, better conditions in turkish prisons. i therefore look forward to a continued close dialogue with parliament. the council will continue to be very clear with the turkish government. the swedish presidency, and certainly the next presidency, will be very clear locally against the turkish government. i hope that we will soon reach concrete results on this important issue for us, namely the unacceptable situation in turkish prisons.
- this debate is over.
- the agenda calls for statements by the council and the commission on the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom).
mr president, the commission and the committee on constitutional affairs considered the question of the legal basis extremely carefully. this regulation is drafted as a temporary measure before the treaty of nice comes into force and i find it absolutely shameful that the nationalists in this parliament are seeking to suppress the growth of proper, credible and legitimate transnational political parties.
mr president, this is a very good report. it has received widespread approbation in the committee and i hope that when it is voted on tomorrow it will receive similarly widespread support throughout the house. the matter of pensions is a hugely important issue, and i say that not just because i have a vested interest in this matter, being close to pensionable age myself: it is an issue of increasing importance to the people, for example, sitting up at the top in the gallery there. today's youngsters will need a pension in the future. we must remember that these generations deserve the same sort of pension security and safety and sustainability as that which we are talking about for ourselves. i really just wanted to make a couple of points: there are two amendments that we have put in for the vote tomorrow which very nearly got in through the committee and were only just defeated, and i hope that when they are re-submitted tomorrow in the name of the epp-ed group, the whole house will be able to support them. they are to do with recognising that pay-as-you-go schemes can no longer be exclusively relied upon to keep people's pension expectations fulfilled and also exhort member states to sort out their tax and spending policies. it is all very well for us to wish that people should have a safe and secure pension, but for this to happen, pensions have to be sustainable, the funding has to be put in place. anything less than that and we would be betraying the generations which are looking to us for support and we must not let them down.
just to show that this question is not only of interest to swedish members of the european union but to other nationalities as well, is this new procedure in the council in operation? if not, when will it be in operation? in other words, when can i get my first document out of the council?
thank you for that very full reply, mr president-in-office. since the budget will become european union operational on 1 january, will the budget for the satellite centre be part of the european security and defence budget, which the council will put forward and which parliament can debate and amend, as necessary? will it be budgetised within the eu's normal financial procedures?
mr president, we object on principle to the accelerating growth of european union military structures outside the nato alliance, with all their attendant costs and politically divisive intent. we believe that the duplication of decision-making bodies and the development of a military staff separate from nato will inevitably exacerbate policy differences between allies, to the detriment of the transatlantic relationship and the long-term security of our people. the european union should be focusing its efforts on economic, administrative and humanitarian contributions to crisis management, to complement the military capabilities which should properly be a nato responsibility. the european union has not yet learned to deliver and manage its external assistance programmes efficiently or to properly spend the resources that have been allocated to these purposes. now it wants more money to spend on yet another ambitious and seriously misguided project. parliament is being asked to approve a draft supplementary and amending budget of nearly eur 10 million to fund staff and equipment for the separate european union military bodies. in addition to some 90 staff redeployed from other tasks or seconded from member states, 51 extra personnel are now to be recruited to expand the european union military structures. can we have an assurance that this total of 141 personnel will not be exceeded? how long will it be before there is a further increase in staff for the european union military structures? mr blair tells people at home that european union's defence policy is all about strengthening nato. mr hoon has even said that there is no concept of a european rapid reaction force as such. from what i hear, everyone speaking on this side of the channel has an entirely different perspective. the aim is to establish an autonomous european union military capability to underpin a distinctive eu foreign policy in which the americans are not involved – in due course, a european army. that is a reality. that is what it is all about. it is very dangerous. tonight we are discussing an unnecessary eur 10 million. i wonder how long it will be before we are discussing a defence budget of eur 10 billion or more. the development of an autonomous eu military capability, separate from nato, has come about as a direct result of initiatives by the british labour government in 1998. now their project has run out of control. we know who is to blame and we cannot support this budget.
madam president, i also wish to congratulate the rapporteur on her work; i support most of what she has said, especially on reform. you may be aware of the findings of a recent euro poll, which showed that the european parliament is one of the most recognised of all eu institutions. therefore, the onus is really on us to ensure that we increase the confidence of european citizens in the eu as a whole. this is why we need to set an example and lead the way in improving effectiveness, transparency and accountability, as outlined by the rapporteur. however, the reform process embarked upon so far sometimes feels a bit slow. we need to speed things up in the coming year and try to embrace reform and modernise our working methods and decision-making processes. as everyone agrees, this is essential because of the challenges presented by enlargement. there is a clear danger that the eu could be deflected from its course if the public does not see concrete and swift reform being carried out on a significant scale. all of us know that enlargement will have far-reaching effects on all aspects of parliament's services. the additional budgetary cost of enlargement could be in the region of eur 145m per year, according to one report. we could need about 459 new offices in brussels alone. this will need considerable planning, with all the implications well thought through. therefore, parliament's three-year plan is essential to make enlargement successful. it is critical that this plan should be considered and not rushed. i strongly oppose the amendments tabled by the ppe-de group imposing a deadline before the summer for this report, because if we do not have a considered and well thought-out enlargement plan, it could backfire on us. the ppe-de group has tabled other amendments, which are equally nonsensical and will not enhance the standing of the european parliament if adopted. what i find particularly astonishing is that, on the one hand, we are constantly nit-picking about minor new establishment posts for the executive and yet, in practice, we are happy to increase posts for the political parties, when it suits particular needs, without any real justification. where are the principles of budgetary rigour and efficiency which the ppe-de group often talks about? it is important that we review these issues, but not at this stage. i wish to stress that the three-year plan should be considered because we face many challenges, but we should – and must – be more dynamic in all areas, in particular languages and buildings, because that is where the substantial costs lie. i hope the plan will in some ways think the unthinkable and radically review the language services, given that in two to three years' time we may have six new official languages to deal with. just to give you some food for thought: the commission is a very different institution from us, but it manages to work in two languages. let me make it clear that i strongly believe in linguistic diversity, but we cannot just add on all these additional languages and still try to be an efficient and effective organisation. in relation to buildings policy, we must carefully examine all available options. i know there is a proposal to purchase this building, and although it makes financial sense here and now in terms of the savings we will make in the immediate future, i am concerned about the long-term suitability of the building: it hardly meets our requirements now, so what is it going to be like six years down the line?
madam president, i also wish to address item 23 in yesterday's minutes concerning security. we are all very grateful for the explanation that you have given about how the matter occurred yesterday, and it is very important that the house recognises the point that you also made, namely that this is a subject that the bureau is also currently discussing. it is an extremely serious and vitally important point, because security in this house is not good enough. what happened yesterday, however, is slightly different, because it calls into question the status and the responsibility of individual members as to whom they invite into this house. (applause) we have had a very lively discussion in our own political group this morning on this matter, and i am going to ask you, madam president, to convene a special meeting of the bureau so that all these matters can be discussed. i recognise that it is already on the agenda of the bureau and is an on-going discussion, but it is so important that we have time to consider the issue properly that i believe we need a special meeting of the bureau and i hereby request you to convene that meeting.
madam president, this proposal will probably succeed as a transitional measure to regularise what is at present a flawed system of financing our fledgling political parties. i agree, however, with some of the critics who say that the proposal in front of us will not provide a lasting statute for the development of campaigning political parties, which are an essential factor should our vibrant transnational european parliamentary democracy flourish. we are proposing one amendment that will improve the proposal, which is to grant the political parties legal personality under european union law. to leave things as they are at present, with 15 competing national jurisdictions, will be a cause of confusion and future problems. we should sort this out now and address the other outstanding issues more seriously and more successfully once the treaty of nice comes into force. we also welcome the compromise amendment, which lowers the threshold for the registration of political parties from a third to a quarter, which is in the interest of both fairness and pluralism.
madam president, i feel rather like the great blondin, just before he started out on his tightrope walk across the niagara falls. i have to say that my group and my delegation are opposed in principle to the regulation or financing of political parties at a european level. we, like others in this chamber, have deep concerns that the proposed funding for european political parties has no legal base. it follows from this that we cannot favour a legal provision for state funding of political parties at european level. state funding of european political parties is quite different, therefore, to state funding of political groups within the european parliament. in the uk, short money, as it is known, is provided for the support of opposition parties' leadership in their parliamentary activities. our view also is that the schleicher report does not follow the principles of the nice declaration. article 191 of the declaration states: "the provisions on the funding for political parties shall apply on the same basis for all these political forces represented in the european parliament." the schleicher report quite clearly discriminates against some of the smaller parties and groups. finally, as commissioner patten said: "this regulation is mistaken in principle, unworkable in practice and discriminatory in effect." however, i wish to thank all the colleagues who understand that, like europe, our group and our delegation do thrive on its differences. nevertheless, for the reasons stated, that is why i and my british colleagues will be opposing this premature report. in conclusion, my late grandfather, harold macmillan, always held the view that members of parliament should not be paid, because when they were paid it attracted the wrong sort of chap. (laughter)
thank you very much madam president. as you know, i was in the chair yesterday when the turkish demonstrators broke into the chamber. it is not my intention in any way to delay the votes or to re-open the debate we had this morning, but i think it appropriate to place on record my thanks to the ushers for their very efficient and prompt handling of the situation. i think their professionalism in the situation deserves much credit. (applause)
in writing. - my group is happy to support the figueiredo report and congratulates the rapporteur on his conscientious approach. we believe that it is essential to propose the highest amount of funding if we are to take a serious approach to combating social exclusion and poverty. it is clear that the current economic system does not provide an adequate standard of living for many people in the union and before we push the applicant countries down the same path, we need to know what we can do to meet the needs of the population more effectively. it is clear that the number of working poor and those who will not be able to work at all or work full time is high. we must see what can be done to ensure that they have a decent income and that they can participate in society. we cannot consider that work is the only activity that makes a person a respectable citizen. young people, members of ethnic minorities, the elderly, those with disabilities, the homeless, the mentally ill and many other citizens are excluded from our society in many different ways. we therefore support the rapporteur's suggestion that a wider body is needed to assess the functioning of the action programme. we reject the idea that only the governments of the member states should evaluate their own research choices and other activities. members of governments are neither poor nor socially excluded, and therefore civil society must be allowed to intervene in the evaluation, in order for the commission and the member states to adopt the right approach and to increase transparency. meps represent many of the poor and socially excluded and also have valuable experience to bring to any evaluation. it is essential that we be given this opportunity.
in writing. -(en) the european funding of political parties has a corruption smell, which is detrimental to democracy. for this reason, i believe that we should seriously consider the european financing of political activity at european level, whether or not it is favourable to the european union, provided that this activity remains within the framework of accepted western values. i have serious reservations, however, about some of the detailed proposals in the report, and i do not think it has a proper legal basis.
in writing. -the labour party in the european parliament supports the proposal to establish clear and transparent guidelines for the functioning of european political parties and to regulate their finances. european political parties already exist and receive public funding through their political groups in the european parliament. it is therefore important that we establish rules in this area. these new rules would make the system more visible, open, transparent and, above all, fairer. democracy needs parties to allow voters to make choices and to articulate their views. at european level, they remind us that on most policy issues it is not member states that are divided, but the different political philosophies and views that exist in all member states.
madam president, it was a deplorable feature of the document to which mrs gebhardt's report responded that, as i said in the explanatory statement, parliament commented in detail on the protection of individual rights, which did not feature at all in the council text. it seems to me that every step that we take and justifiably take in this direction must be, at the same time, one which recognises in the highest degree protection of the rights of the defence and of the rights of persons accused of crime in all parts of the union. this should not become a way of achieving a lowest common factor of protection. it must be the case that at all points people involved in criminal processes achieve the highest level of respect for their rights of defence. may i remark that the provision on national representatives allows for substitutes? i hope that the united kingdom in appointing persons will take note of the fact there are two distinct systems of criminal justice in the uk.
- the agenda calls for the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - b5-0350/2001 by mr belder, on behalf of the edd group, on the situation in algeria; - b5-0361/2001 by mr swoboda and others, on behalf of the pse group, on the situation in algeria; - b5-0366/2001 by mrs flautre and others, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on the situation in algeria; - b5-0368/2001 by mrs ferrer and mr posselt, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in algeria; - b5-0373/2001 by mrs malmström and others, on behalf of the eldr group, on the situation in algeria; - b5-0384/2001 by mrs boudjenah and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the situation in algeria;
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission deeply regrets the recent events in kabylie. the deaths and injuries of hundreds of people show that the reform process in algeria has not yet produced the desired results. but it is also clear that there is no alternative to the policy of continually calling for and promoting this reform process. the european union regularly raises the issues of human rights violations, arbitrary arrests and torture in its political dialogue with algeria. at the 57th session of the un commission on human rights in geneva in march 2001, the eu presidency called on algeria to take concrete measures in this respect and to allow the un special rapporteurs on torture and extrajudicial executions to visit the country. the question of missing persons is of particular concern to us. during the troika's most recent visit to algiers on 24 april 2001, a consolidated list of thirty old and new cases was presented to the algerian authorities. the commission will continue to monitor this issue closely. the association agreement currently under negotiation with algeria contains a clause on democratic principles and human rights. the rapid conclusion of the agreement will provide the european union with an effective instrument for a strengthened and institutionalised dialogue with algeria. the commission has supported economic and social reforms in algeria since 1996 with eur 300 million from the meda budget lines and the financial protocols. in 2001, we will promote balanced socioeconomic development and to this end we are preparing two major projects for local development in rural areas and for rehabilitation measures in areas affected by terrorism. human rights projects are also financed from the budget line specifically allocated to them.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place today at 6.30 p.m.
- doc. b5-0357/2001 by mr lagendijk and others, on behalf of the green group, on the situation in bosnia and herzegovina; - b5-0362/2001 by mr swoboda and mr van den berg, on behalf of the pse group, on the violent incidents during the reconstruction of mosques in banja luka (and trebinje) (bosnia); - b5-0369/2001 by mrs pack and mr posselt, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the violent incidents during the reconstruction of mosques in banja luka (and trebinje); - b5-0375/2001 by mr haarder, on behalf of the eldr group, on the situation in bosnia and herzegovina and the incidents in banja luka and trebinje; - b5-0385/2001 by mrs morgantini and mr brie, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the situation in bosnia and herzegovina and the incidents in banja luka and trebinje;
mr president, i cannot myself claim intimate familiarity with circumstances in cameroon, but together with other colleagues in this house i have been approached by friends and acquaintances whom we trust in non-governmental organisations, notably the international federation for christian action against torture, drawing to our attention matters of the gravest concern, which merit the attention of the institutions of the union and in particular of this parliament. we have well-attested reports of the discovery of 2000 mass graves, of the arrest of senior officers of the gendarmerie, of inquiries into an organisation known as the operational command and generally matters of real concern. it has been put to us that what is required is: an independent commission of inquiry to shed light on human rights violations, acts of torture, disappearances and extrajudicial executions, a commitment to protect adequately human rights defenders and local organisations working on this issue and the appointment of some special rapporteur on extrajudicial summary and arbitrary executions, with the working group on forced or involuntary disappearances being invited as soon as possible to inquire into matters in cameroon. by coincidence, today's le monde has a special supplement on cameroon, the opening sentence of which tells us that all the evils of africa are to be found in cameroon and yet also all the reasons for hope for the better. what has been revealed to us here suggests that both of these propositions are true: both the reasons for hope and the present evils. also, this week in le monde in relation to general aussaresses we have been reminded that torture, disappearance and evil-doing and the use of humans as means and not as ends in themselves have terribly scarred the history of our own continent, both during the war of 1939 to 1945 and afterwards. we are not in a position to hold ourselves up as being somehow superior but we can, as concerned human beings, share the concern of our fellows in cameroon who are raising these points and members of international non-governmental human rights organisations who have been drawing it to our attention. i strongly commend this resolution to the house and hope it will be adopted unanimously this evening.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i would like to begin by thanking mr di lello finuoli for this remarkable report and i would like to express my warm welcome to it. as the tampere european council stressed, the concept of mutual recognition of judgments of courts and judicial authorities is an essential cornerstone of the area of freedom, security and justice that we want to create in europe. the concept originated in the field of the internal market. it is based on mutual trust in the different systems of the member states and on some common and fundamental legal principles. it cannot therefore be considered in isolation but must be complemented by other measures, such as further approximation of the substantive and procedural criminal law of the member states, better mutual understanding and improved education and training. the tampere conclusions call on the council and the commission to present a programme to this end by the end of the year. the most important contribution of the commission was the communication on mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters, which was published last summer. in this communication we set out the commission's approach to this sub-area of the wider field of mutual recognition. as this is a new and complex issue, our communication often does not aim at definitive and conclusive answers to the questions raised, but rather attempts to indicate possible solutions. it was about asking the right questions and offering options for the way forward. i am pleased to note that the report by mr di lello finuoli broadly shares the commission's view and invites the commission to take this forward. the implementation of the principle of mutual recognition in criminal law cooperation is an ambitious task, involving a fundamental change of perspective from traditional forms of cooperation to work-sharing cooperation. this new approach will lead to a number of initiatives in substance and in practice, as set out in the joint council and commission programme of november 2000. some of the projects proposed there have already been launched. the commission has committed itself in its work programme to present proposals before the summer break to facilitate extradition, including the idea of a european arrest warrant. the commission is also considering the feasibility of common standards for the protection of individual rights in criminal proceedings. it is not possible to go into all the 30 points of the motion for a resolution in detail here. the commission's attitude is very positive on the whole, but i have some doubts about something which has already been raised in the debate. the resolution calls for the full application of the ne bis in idem principle. the commission supports this, especially since this principle is also enshrined in our new charter of fundamental rights. the commission has serious doubts, however, as to whether it would be prudent to apply only the most lenient sentence for the offender in cases where there are indeed several sentences in different member states. the tampere european council adopted ambitious plans for the justice and home affairs sector. in our daily work, we must experience that the devil is in the detail. many details show that mutual trust in the different judicial systems of the member states is not yet quite as developed as would be necessary to achieve mutual recognition. it is certainly useful to push the development forward again. i am confident that we will achieve the necessary political impetus if parliament also clearly expresses its support for progress in the implementation of the principle of mutual recognition. this would perhaps add the political weight we still lack to achieve the balance needed to achieve a wider recognition of decisions. it is time to really bring the theoretical concept of mutual recognition to life. (applause from the centre)
- the agenda calls for the commission's statement on works councils and redundancies.
the commission. i would like to begin by thanking the members who have taken part in this debate. the commission considers this debate to be an important support for its initiatives. i felt that there was a real political back wind here and that we were in perfect agreement on the direction to take. thank you again for this. i would like to answer the specific questions that have been put. first of all, the question by mr menrad whether it is intended to recast the directives on mass redundancies and on the transfer of undertakings. the commission has not envisaged this, nor does it consider it necessary, because the scope of the rules in the proposed new directive on information and participation is such that the two directives you have mentioned will only then be able to have their full effect. the requirements of the new directive also relate to the subject-matter of the two directives you have mentioned, so we do not think that there is a need to revise these directives. as regards the questions put by mr wurtz: yes, mr president, you have understood me perfectly well. the commission is determined to push the adoption of the information and participation directive forward with all its might now and to reach it by the deadline i have mentioned. i have already said that if we cannot reach a consensus, we will work towards a qualified majority for the directive. you also correctly understood that the commission believes that this directive must include sanctions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the social aspects of the merger are taken into account in the decision-making process, and i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social aspects of the merger are taken into account. the outcome of this examination is not yet final.
- this debate is over.
- oral question to the commission (b5-0170/01) by mr westendorp y cabeza, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, pursuant to rule 42 of the rules of procedure, on the implementation by the member states of the gas directive.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the eu gas directive was adopted by the european parliament and the council in june 1998 - almost three years ago. it entered into force on 10 august 1998. member states were required to transpose the directive by 10 august 2000. since the entry into force of the directive, all member states have transposed the directive, except france and germany. germany has implemented parts of the directive and expects to complete implementation in the coming months. the commission is currently reviewing the situation in germany with a view to determining whether further action is necessary in this respect. on 17 may 2000, the french government adopted a draft law to implement the gas directive. however, this draft legislative act still needs to be adopted by the french parliament. no date has yet been set for final adoption. according to the information received by the commission from the french administration, it was not decided to postpone the implementation of the directive until 2002. however, contrary to what was expected, it was decided not to include the draft legislative act in the remaining agenda of the french parliament for this spring. even if this is due to the heavy workload of parliament, as is being said, this delay is a serious development and is very regrettable. the commission therefore decided on 8 may 2001 to refer france to the european court of justice for failure to transpose the directive. in view of the call made by the lisbon european council in march 2000 to accelerate the liberalisation of electricity and gas markets and in view of the progress made in the implementation of the gas directive in other member states, it is regrettable that no legal basis has been created in france to implement the directive. this is a serious obstacle to the development of an internal gas market and to the creation of a level playing field in the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the gas market is not affected by the introduction of the new rules. on the contrary, the delays show the need for further steps, but also that these further steps should be chosen in a balanced way to ensure a level playing field. it is therefore particularly important that france now make rapid progress in implementing the 1998 directive. the new commission proposals remain important and urgent in terms of competitiveness, lower prices for private consumers and employment. the commission is therefore determined to continue to press ahead with determination on this important dossier.
mr president, it is a matter of great sorrow that we have to point the finger at one member state – one of the founder member states of this union – for not fulfilling its solemn undertakings, for being prepared to act against the laws of the european union and indeed for taking the law into its own hands. it is with real concern that we also have to point the finger yet again at the council of ministers: while it knows full well that member states are not fulfilling their existing undertakings, it glibly goes on producing communiqués of fine words, which advocate even further moves to liberalisation, completion of the single market, increased cross-border trade and fair competition. only this month, after the energy council of 14/15 may, the presidency concluded: "there is broad consensus ..." (does that consensus include france?) "... that the market opening concerning both gas and electricity should be actively pursued and accelerated." the presidency also declared, on behalf of the energy ministers – did that include the french energy minister? –: "a fully integrated single market for gas and electricity cannot be achieved without efficient cross-border trade." regrettably, we hear the hollow echo of those fine but increasingly empty words at lisbon about making europe the most competitive and dynamic economy in the world. and yet in so many critical areas the will is just not there at member state government level to implement the essentials which have been agreed through all the union's checks and balances. why should france expect the other member states to fulfil their side of the bargain and let france take over their markets and companies, when it procrastinates repeatedly or refuses to pay its dues to the club? why should france, or any other member state which acts in like manner, expect to reap the benefits of membership when it blatantly disregards its obligations? the irony is that france is not only disadvantaging its fellow members; it is not just undermining the very essence of the european union, the single market and fair, open competition, it is also disadvantaging its own energy-using industries. it is also disadvantaging its own people, especially the less affluent, who are being denied the price and the service benefits which would flow from allowing competition and liberalisation of the gas market. worse even than this, however, is the cynicism of the council's communiqué after the may energy council. it did not dare to mention this impasse caused by one of those members actually sitting at the table, but glibly committed itself, including, i assume, the french energy minister, to further, bigger and faster liberalisation of the energy markets. can we believe a word it says? where stands the credibility of the council and the whole european union? at the very least, it is the commission's solemn duty to uphold community legislation and not to be browbeaten in any way by powerful and intransigent member states or arrogant political forces. if member states cannot be trusted to fulfil their obligations, then, sadly, the only option is to bring to bear the full force of community law and to exact substantial retribution. will the commissioner please assure us that such steps will be pursued assiduously without any grace or favour?
- this debate is over. the commission does not wish to answer the questions that have been put, so we will adjourn the sitting until the votes are taken at 6.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 6.20 p.m. and resumed at 6.30 p.m.)
- the agenda calls for votes on topical and urgent subjects of major importance: see minutes. report (a5-0145/2001) by mr di lello finuoli, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on the mutual recognition of final decisions in criminal matters (com (2000) 495 - c5-0631/2000 - 2000/2295 (cos))
mr president, on a point of order. i am not sure whether it is too late to raise this point, but there is a point concerning translation, given that italian is the original version of the di lello finuoli report. throughout the text, the word ‘execution’ is used, meaning, of course, execution simply in the sense of carrying out a penalty. however, in relation to criminal matters, in ordinary english ‘execution’ has a very particular meaning and one which attracts considerable hostility in this house and goes against our views on human rights. i think an equally good english translation of the italian would be ‘implementation’ rather than ‘execution’, and that it would be wise to use the word ‘implementation’ rather than ‘execution’ throughout. (applause)
- your point is very pertinent. we will ask the services to take a look at the original italian text to avoid any misunderstanding on this point. (parliament adopted the resolution) the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment.
- i told you once that we all expect that by the end of this legislature, we will know more about the problems your family faces. voting time is closed. membership of committees - authorization to draw up reports - enhanced hughes/hughes procedure - statements entered in the register (rule 51) - forwarding of texts adopted at this part-session - schedule of next part-sessions: see minutes.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 6.45 p.m.)
the commission is aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the preparation of the european research area for the last five years. this aspect has two components: on the one hand, the current obstacles to mobility for researchers, for professors, etc. a high-level group met with experts from all the member states and gave us a report, which will be discussed at the research council on 26 june and sent to parliament to show all the difficulties of mobility in the scientific community. as i have often said, it is more difficult for a researcher with a european background to go to another european country than to go to, say, the united states. so there are obstacles that we have to try to face and overcome. secondly, as regards the mobility of young researchers, you know that we have the marie curie programme, which is a success, but in the proposal we want to double the resources for the mobility of young researchers and also create european attractiveness grants, so that europe can once again be attractive to the best researchers from the world and from third countries. so there are very concrete proposals on mobility issues in the programme, as you will see. finally, the last point, namely the problems of implementing elements of sustainable development, is, i believe, part of the policy that parliament, the commission and the council will be discussing in gothenburg. in these areas, research is needed, including on concrete examples, to support sustainable development policies. and you, mr piétrasanta, have defended the idea of well-defined ecological zones in a specific area. i think this is a good example of the application of sustainable development at local level and i think we could imagine creating a network of eco-sites in europe.
madam president, i hope you will not rule me out of order, but i have a very specific question to the commissioner on research. i rather sympathise with my colleagues who think that the way in which the new programmes are going to be organised makes it difficult to see what is actually happening. my specific question is this: one of the things on which research is urgently needed is the efficacy of vaccination in outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease. i do not know – and i conducted some research into this – what is happening as regards such research within the framework programme, either the present one or the one which is planned. it would be extremely useful for many people in europe to know what is being done. i fear very much on the basis of the experience in the united kingdom that foot-and-mouth disease is not going away and that we may be dealing with it over a long period. european research is therefore absolutely urgent.
commission. - i agree with mr schwaiger's statement in full. that is exactly what we want to do. i can tell him that at the level of major research centres in europe which are not within the competence of the european union, such as cern in geneva, the institute of molecular biology in heidelberg, we have launched a policy of contact with them. we're trying to create synergies between them for the first time. they met here in brussels, with the commission, in their independence but creating a critical mass effect. the example you give of heidelberg and the institute for cancer research, i took the liberty of giving it to inserm in france, since you know that there is a team from the french inserm working in heidelberg with the german institute for cancer research. it is very important that we help to build these national synergies. it is either article 169 or support for cooperation in national programmes. but your idea of showing these networks in practice is a great idea, which i may take up again to show what already exists, and which needs to be amplified. the commission's role will be to enable everyone to participate, according to their interests, in a number of areas, but it is clear that there are initiatives being taken. the dynamics of the european space are already being felt in a number of national institutions which have taken this dynamic to heart.
madam president, i welcome the commissioner’s statement that he is in listening mode. i wonder if he would listen in particular to those people who are working in the field of public health and their concerns that what has been a very good programme on public health care, health promotion and illness prevention seems to be disappearing. as i understand it, within the first seven categories of research programmes, when health comes in, it is confined to highly scientific biomedical research programmes. when people ask what is happening to public health care research, they are told that it has gone into the all-embracing category 8, which is rather a jumble sale of a programme with a very small amount of money attached. they are told that directorates-general of the commission are already being invited to submit bids, so it is agriculture bidding against environment bidding against health, and so on. this area of public health looks like missing out, just at the time when the treaty of amsterdam is putting it up the agenda for the european union. will he have a look at that, because if we are going to get the research programme right, we need to have research into that research programme, and to listen to the people in the field.
can i make a suggestion for the future. at the beginning of this session, i waved my hands repeatedly for a long time. i may or may not have got on the list, but i had no idea whether or not this was the case. would perhaps one of your assistants acknowledge our wavings so that we would know we can stop and whether we are on the list or not. it might help us.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs – the committee on employment and social affairs regrets that the treaty of nice made far fewer specific changes in the area of employment and social policy than those that it had sought. it hopes that these issues will be addressed by the second report from the constitutional affairs committee and by the next igc. on the broader institutional issues, presently under discussion, we welcome the report's call for a convention to prepare for the next igc and for a debate involving the active participation of the european citizenry as a whole. we would ask that the convention engage closely in the course of its discussions with the social partners and with civil society. in particular, we would seek consultation, both within the member states and with the applicant countries on the issue of the provision of a legal base for the involvement of civil society in the decision-making processes of the european union. we would also like to see member states being encouraged to establish fora where citizens can interact with their own parliament's on the future of europe. we believe too that up to and beyond the next igc, there would be merit in joint annual meetings of delegations of committees on employment and social affairs from the european parliament, from within member states and the applicant countries and from the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. we hope that a means will be found for supporting such meetings. finally, we trust that the charter of fundamental rights will be incorporated in the treaties in a legally binding manner and we look forward in future to wide and active participation in the discussion on the future of the union.
- i was very generous with the speaking time given to the three group leaders. i will not be as tolerant in future but i am sure, pat cox, that you have the broad support of this house.
- mr alavanos, i shall try to keep to the speaking time because if parliament is late, things become excessively complicated for some of the speakers who come later in the debate, not just those who initiate it. as regards the spokesman for your group, i must say that she has had the same speaking time as hans-gert poettering, for example, or mr barón crespo. mr cox was a little out of line, but he was making one of the most passionate speeches that we have heard in this house for a long time and i think the house enjoyed listening to him.
my group is determined that the specific legitimacy of the european parliament to play a part in the constitutional development of the union should be recognised inside the convention. parliament will bring wisdom and commitment to the process and focus upon common european solutions. however, we also require the member states to play a full part inside the convention and there are currently certain signals that some prime ministers are preparing to concede us the convention but then to withdraw their own representatives from it. this would subvert the convention and it would be an insult to this parliament. it would also ruin the pretence that the european council respected the role of national parliaments. for the governments to absent themselves would leave us with a grandiose talking shop, it would be insufferable for this parliament to be fobbed off in this way. i would request the commission and council to pledge that the convention will have four parties inside it, and that the igc will use the work of the convention as the basis for the igc. (applause)
mr president, madam president-in-office, commissioner, it is a great pleasure at this time – when in the united kingdom i fear a rather negative tone has been taken about europe – to be able to say how much one welcomes this development of a constitutionalisation of europe in circumstances of enlarged and expanding democracy bringing the countries of central and eastern europe in. as the president-in-office has said, it is an odd view that the european union does not already have a constitution. of course it does. it has an implicit and not very intelligible one, and the task is to make it explicit and intelligible and properly adopted. that does not necessarily imply a full-scale federation along the lines of mr schroeder. those of us who believe in a confederal europe believe just as much that it must be marked by respect for human rights, by clarity of democratic principle and by interaction of pluralistic constitutions, rather than a strictly hierarchical model. too often in this house we hear the term “nation” used as though it were purely co-extensive with the term “member state”. it is a well-known fact, to those who reflect upon it, that there are more nations in europe than there are states. one of the interesting features of our time has been, partly under the guidance of the growth of democracy in europe, the re-emergence of internal democracies in small ancient nations of europe like catalonia, the basque country, scotland, galicia and flanders. we in the european free alliance hope that the process which we start today will be marked by a respect for subsidiarity in a generous and extensive sense: amendments no 5 and 18 from the liberals and amendment 28 from my own group are for us keystones of this process. surely indeed, this union must recognise subsidiarity in a generous and broad sense, it must acknowledge the political and national diversity of the european union and the debate on the future must take full account of the powers of the internal political units of the member states, not only of the member states themselves. in this election in scotland, there is a debate going about whether there should be full fiscal autonomy for the scottish parliament: autonomy is growing in all these small countries and it is vital that it be recognised. i was delighted that the recent statement by the commission on tax harmonisation made it perfectly clear that there can be wide subsidiarity in these matters. (applause)
- mr. maccormick, i'm sorry i didn't notice that yesterday was one of your special birthdays. - thank you.
mr president, when the rapporteur started work on this report, there was a real danger that this parliament would end up rejecting the treaty of nice through an unholy alliance of those who felt it went too far and those who felt it did not go far enough, so it is a tribute to their work that they have steered parliament to a very sensible analysis of the treaty and a strategy for moving forward from here. some indeed, as we heard just now in the debate, still seem to have the fanciful idea that this treaty is setting up a centralised superstate: i find it astonishing that they can read the treaty of nice and genuinely believe that. also outside this house, the british conservative party is campaigning in the uk election saying it would not ratify the treaty of nice if it were to come to power. this is not the case with their members here, or at least not all of their members here – i noticed that the two british conservative members in the committee voted for the méndez de vigo/seguro report and i pay tribute to them for having done so. conservatives back home, however, are coming up with this idea that this treaty sets up a superstate. that really is nonsense and it does not seem to be doing them much good in the opinion polls. the public can see through this particular fanciful idea. if you were to look behind you, you would see in the bouquet of flags that the irish flag has been placed where the european flag usually is, in the middle of the bouquet, presumably because ireland is the only member state holding a referendum on the treaty of nice. why is only ireland holding a referendum? why not denmark and others? precisely because in this treaty of nice there is no further transfer of competence to the european union. it is not a centralising treaty and the critics, of course, know that. others have been disappointed with the treaty of nice, because it did not go far enough and because of some of the questionable compromises it contains, such as the voting system in the council and the extra seats in the european parliament. as work went on in our committee, however, we realised that nice also had a lot of positive points. in any case if you feel that it had shortcomings, the best way to improve it is to use the process of 2004. rejecting nice would have caused delay and confusion. 2004 offers us opportunities to improve what our president of the council refers to as the existing european constitution, the treaties. yes, it needs improvement, but so does our method for working on it. that needs to start with our preparation for an igc: not the usual group of foreign ministry officials, with all due respect to mr gunnar lund, but a wider more representative body. hence parliament's demand for a convention of the council, not just a forum. the forum is the wide debate that is taking place with civil society. we need something to channel that debate into a set of conclusions that the igc can work on. that is what we need, an igc at the end remains something that can distil the debate... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr méndez de vigo and mrs seguro on their joint report and the work involved, and the constitutional committee and the other committees who worked towards this debate. we have had the work in committee and now we have to make a choice in plenary. conservative meps will be opposing this report, not as a verdict on the treaty of nice, but rather to initiate a change of procedure in preparations for the next igc and to raise the subject of galvanising public awareness and participation in the post-nice debate. the hallmark of the report is its proposal for the formation of a convention to prepare for the next intergovernmental conference this convention would consist of representatives from the commission, national governments, the european parliament and national parliaments and it would prepare the agenda and the proposals for the next igc. we are not convinced this is the right course. moreover there are a number of clauses that we conservatives are unable to support in this report, such as the inclusion in the treaty of the charter of fundamental human rights or the extension of qmv to cover taxation. however, despite the connotations surrounding the subject of this report, there is no explicit "yes" or "no" given to the treaty of nice itself. it raises however the important points of increased democracy and transparency for the next igc. we believe that there should be an early igc. i agree with that part of the report, which calls for this, because this would place the main choices before the european public, including i hope by then some enlargement countries, so that they could make their choices at the next european election. i look forward to the debate at that time.
mr president, the socialist group welcomes very much the official visit to north korea and to seoul by the council, commission and the high representative of the cfsp. commissioner patten, when he reported back to the foreign affairs committee yesterday, said that the visit had gone ahead with modest aims, but those modest aims have been achieved and we welcome that. as a parliamentarian, i am rather disappointed that the delegation managed to fit in 75 journalists but could not manage any parliamentarians on the grounds that the delegation was a small one. i hope on future occasions the commission and the council might consider taking some parliamentarians along, particularly in the light of the fact that relations between north korea and the european union were pioneered by the european parliament, over two years ago, when we sent our first official delegation. i welcome the fact that there were good talks with kim chong-il. clearly north korea is a state of concern. we welcome the fact that they are continuing their moratorium on missile tests until 2004. i recognise that at the moment they have very little option but to export military equipment. they produce hardly any goods that anyone wants to buy apart from military equipment. so it is hardly surprising that the no-dong i and no-dong ii weapons which have a range of 1 300 kilometres have been sold to iran, syria and pakistan or that the north koreans are giving military aid to the congo, iran, ethiopia and syria. the problem will be if they continue to test the taepodong, which will have a range of something between 4 000 and 6 000 kilometres. obviously we welcome the moratorium. we welcome the further aid that is going to given in the form of food aid. we need improved access for european union monitors to make sure that the aid is being distributed properly. we welcome the increased assistance in the agricultural sector, particularly in the life of what we have been told that there is now some recognition that reform has to take place. it is important to train north koreans in modern industrial and clerical skills and we need to give aid in a non-nuclear energy sector as well as raising the textile quotas. it is important that we have a human rights dialogue and i welcome the fact that on 13 june that dialogue is going to take place. no one has mentioned kado; the european union is participating in the kado programme for building two nuclear power stations in north korea. unfortunately, we have cut the budget this time compared to the last time and if we are serious about assisting kim dae-jung with his sunshine policy that sends exactly the wrong signals. we are very keen that diplomatic relations be established and i urge the commission and the council to consider placing an office in pyongyang rather than making the beijing office responsible for north korea. there will be no day-to-day contact if that is the case. there is a distinction at the moment between the eu and the us and we hope we can move forward together, but if we cannot we will have to move forward separately, because the direction we are going is the right one.
the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am very pleased to have the opportunity to be present at this debate today. the debate focused on the strategy for sustainable development and the integration of environmental issues into economic policy. the fact that these issues are high on the agenda is an expression of the political will for change and renewal. when sustainable development was written into the amsterdam treaty, we were criticised for not being sufficient and not committing to action. there was a lack of confidence in our common policy and in the capacity of the european union. this criticism cannot be directed at us today. we now have to take a position on concrete proposals, objectives and means, based on the commission's well-formulated proposal for a strategy for sustainable development and the reports presented by hulthén and blokland. a strong policy for sustainable development requires a frank and clear social criticism. biodiversity is threatened, acidification continues, the fertilizer industry is expanding, the chemicals are accumulating in our bodies, air pollution is killing, climate change is accelerating - and all of this is happening right now, at this very moment. at the same time, we must not turn a blind eye to the great opportunities that we have: research is increasing, we are increasingly focusing on education and lifelong learning, knowledge is growing and spreading, new technologies are being developed, low-cost solutions are becoming more common, the problems of agriculture and fisheries are giving rise to new ideas and new solutions, political will is growing. we now need to develop a holistic approach, where different policy areas interact. the economic, social and ecological perspectives must be interwoven and given equal weight in all policy areas. we must propose concrete measures, changed principles and clear objectives. we can now formulate a vision for the future. the objective of europe is to become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. in gothenburg, this objective must be complemented by the ecological dimension, if we are to be the region which takes the greatest responsibility for nature and the environment. it is also important that the policy is embedded in the daily lives of citizens. research, education, democracy and participation are all prerequisites for shared responsibility. in the further development of the sustainability strategy, dialogue with civil society and between the union institutions must be deepened. the presidency's ambition for the council meeting in gothenburg is that we can adopt a strategy which will inter alia link the lisbon process with the sustainable development strategy, which will define the ecological dimension by setting a number of clear, follow-up objectives to reverse the negative trends we are now seeing. it will mean that all future decisions within the union will be examined from the point of view of sustainability. it will clearly demonstrate europe's ambition to reduce its climate impact and to participate actively and proactively in global cooperation. it will involve the elimination of unsustainable subsidies. it will help to minimise the negative impact of chemicals on health and the environment and ensure that sustainable development is regularly discussed at the highest political level. i would particularly like to stress the importance of having the political courage to set concrete, time-bound targets for achieving sustainable development. it is with this in mind that i am pleased that the hulthén report before the european parliament today expresses the same view. in particular, i would like to highlight in this report the need for a climate change adaptation programme and renewable energy targets, the need for a change in transport policy, the need for a new chemicals policy based on the precautionary principle, the need for a sustainability analysis of all decisions and the need to strengthen the sustainability perspective also in the union's global work. it is important that parliament, as the report says, continues to be a driving force and a critical observer of new legislation within the union. as regards global responsibility, i would like to emphasize in particular what mr hulthén has said in his report. sustainable development cannot be achieved without addressing the global perspective. that is why it is an important task for us. the european union should take a leading role in the work of global sustainable development. we must be clear in our commitment to the world summit for sustainable development in south africa next year to achieve the necessary results. as part of the preparations for both the council meeting in gothenburg and the meeting in johannesburg, i invited 250 young people aged 20-25 from 110 different countries around the world last weekend. that meeting recognized no boundaries between countries or between people. what do these young people have? they have commitment, they have enthusiasm. what are they missing? they lack the patience, the fear to face difficult and troublesome problems. what do we owe them? i think it can be said that we owe it to them to lay the foundation for their confidence in the future by being clear, by being able to set out concrete, political measures, by being able to show that we have the political courage and the political will to reverse the dangerous trends in the world. what do they want from the eu, especially after the us action on climate policy? they are calling for the eu to take a clear leadership role in the global effort to promote sustainable development, combat poverty and combat the ongoing environmental degradation. let me summarize this: sustainability on a continent is not sustainable sustainability. as hulthén said, we can never count on one part of the earth to live sustainably while the rest of the earth is perishing in poverty and environmental degradation. in his report, mr blokland has pointed out the link between the depletion of our natural resources and the impact on the environment in relation to economic policy. the conclusion is that the absence of price-tags on scarce resources and environmental impact leads to insufficient integration of environmental concerns and economics. it is clear to me that an important part of future sustainability policy is to better internalize environmental costs into the cost of goods and services in the economy. the proposals presented in the report are important instruments for the further development of a strategy for sustainable development and sectoral integration. the presidency's starting point is that it is important to integrate environmental issues into the broad economic policy guidelines. here too, market-based economic instruments will increasingly be used to price scarce resources and to assess whether subsidies and tax exemptions lead to negative environmental impacts. the development of the environmental integration strategy shall include objectives, timetables and follow-up mechanisms in the bepg. i would like to end by referring to a conclusion of the blokland report. action is needed now to avoid more costly measures later. i can also add to this a report from sweden, from the swedish environment agency, which shows that it generally takes much longer for nature and the environment to recover from the environmental damage that we have caused and are still causing. i think that conclusion complements blokland's. in other words, we cannot afford to wait. we must act now, and the reports before us today are an important step forward towards the council meeting in gothenburg and also towards the summit in johannesburg next year.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, i welcome the opportunity to contribute to this debate on behalf of the employment and social affairs committee, even though that was a very last-minute edition which i think exemplifies a lot of what is wrong at the moment with the way we think about sustainability within this institution. we are not integrating our social, economic and environmental policies. they should be pulling in the same direction, and they certainly do not at present. it is also exemplified by the fact that the one commissioner we have with us this evening is the environment commissioner. i welcome her here, but when we are discussing sustainability i would very much like to see in future the commissioners from my own committee, and also at least from the committee on economic and monetary affairs. if we are to have long-term sustainability and develop a truly green economy, we have to take care to foster environmental-friendly businesses and use resources efficiently, and that includes the way in which we use our workforces. hence my committee’s call for rapid progress in enabling people to work efficiently through effective consultation and participation, because democracy is also part of sustainability, as are reduced working hours and good quality work in safe working conditions supported by an effective system of social security. if we are demanding that businesses provide social and environmental audits, as we quite rightly do, we need the accountants and other professionals than can do that. if we want builders who can construct energy-efficient buildings, we need to train them. hence my committee’s call for all european union funded training initiatives to take the environmental dimension fully into account, if we are really preparing people for the future. social inclusion, as has already been said, is a key component of a sustainable society, hence the need for a guaranteed minimum income to provide for basic needs. we must combat discrimination and poverty. at present the dispossessed feel they have no stake in the future and that, under anybody’s reasoning, is a wicked waste. sustainable development is about creating a world in which there are no losers. we cannot achieve this goal if we continue with policies that pull in different directions and even undermine each other. our common future depends on finding an effective way to ensure integration and sustainability.
mr president, this is one of the most important documents we will be debating in the field of the environment in this parliamentary cycle. given its enhanced legal status, this document will be of greater significance than any of the other environmental action plans i have seen going through parliament in the last 10 or so years. i am, therefore, concerned at the speed with which it has been considered by parliament, driven at least in part by an ambitious presidency that will be here today and gone tomorrow. mrs myller is in no way to be criticised as she has striven very hard to begin the discussion on the substance of this debate very early on, but that has not stopped some of her colleagues from coming forward with a long last-minute shopping list of demands stretching far into the future. however, we should not despair. the proposals are still there at the centre of the document in the amendments. the commission can still rescue it at second reading. the rapporteur will have the chance of getting a core of sensible amendments together at second reading that will have the support of the clear majority of members of this house. i, like many others tomorrow, will vote for this report and the bulk of the amendments, knowing that by going forward to the second reading we are taking steps in the long process of developing an environment policy for the european union which will outlast all the presidencies and all the ministers that this parliament will see, and which will probably also outlast most of the members of this house. in that sense, we all have to recognise how small a part we play in the bigger overall process.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am delighted to follow mr dell'alba and particularly mr van hulten; while i do not share his political aspirations, i recognise his ability as a young person who one day will probably lead the european union to great heights. i also recognise that budgetary discipline is based on certain principles: unity, annuality, equilibrium, unit of account, universality, and specification. however the external budget also requires transparency, because our external budget is constantly exposed to corruption. there are many practical problems which we have to look at in the external budget. first, development cooperation is better served by multi-annual programmes rather annual programmes but in the eu this is not so. we have an annual programme which does not work consistently in terms of output targets. second, output targets are not measured in terms of external budgets so that we do not finally know what we have done with our taxpayers' money. we can never come back to parliament and report on what has happened with our taxpayers' money. third, the external budget is constantly underspent while those in need suffer poverty, malnutrition, hunger, disease, underdevelopment and loss of education and life-quality opportunities. yet, rather than return the funds which are predicted at the beginning of the budget to be unspent – which could then be returned back to member states who could spend that money more effectively – we keep this money for more than three years and then overspend it. i want to be proud of what we do. i want the world to recognise that we make a substantial contribution. i want our development assistance programme to be the best in the world. we have a long way to go before we achieve that.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur for his serious and very painstaking approach to this work and would support many of his introductory remarks and also many of those made by my colleague, mrs van lancker. there is no doubt that working abroad is increasingly popular for young people, in particular, and businesses are also looking to recruit from a wider field, but for this to be possible, people need to feel that they can have accurate, up-to-date information about what working in another member state may entail, because that information provides them with a real choice as to whether they work elsewhere or not. at the moment we have a very confusing set of different rules and regulations and it is clear from complaints to many of us and to parliament's petitions committee that clear advice is not always forthcoming from the appropriate authorities, even in member states themselves. the apparent anomalies have not helped either in social security coordination and entitlements, even different definitions as to what constitutes self-employment. the eures network provides a very valuable resource for potential mobile workers. it also provides a valuable, if underused, resource for employers. many small and medium-sized enterprises do not have the capacity or experience to carry out their cross-border recruitment. eures has an important role for them and it is a great pity that employment and employers' organisations are not more involved in the development of these services. up to now, it has been particularly important in border regions, but eures still does not cover all such areas, which is regrettable. it is obvious, as others have said, that eures needs to be adequately resourced, expanded and promoted if it is to meet its full potential and respond to the needs of individuals. we must also recognise that enlargement will bring additional and quite legitimate demands in terms of information. we support the request for more detailed information to be provided and agree that multi-annual funding is essential to the smooth development of this services. however, its task would be made much easier if member states adopted a more determined and coherent approach to making free movement a reality rather than an ideal that they keep banging on about, but seem incapable of delivering. there has to be positive action by governments in favour of enabling people to experience working elsewhere: mrs van lancker has already refereed to the coordination of social security systems within this. there is also the question about dealing with tax problems for frontier workers. we still have enormous problems with adequate recognition of qualifications, particularly vocational qualifications. members states must recognise that free movement is not a threat to them, it is not an inconvenience, it is a valuable way to increase understanding and to develop cooperation within the union.
madam president, after we rejected amendment no 54 to recital e, you then put recital e itself to the vote, although there has not been a request for a separate vote on recital e and although, under our rules of procedure, you need not do so. may i ask you not to put the original recital to the vote unless there has been a request for a separate vote: firstly, because it makes the voting time a lot longer, but secondly, the voting lists that all the groups have in front of them do not have a item for a separate vote on that and it can lead to confusion as to how we intend to vote.
mr president, i should just like to say that after this vote i hope everyone is convinced of the need to reform our rules of procedure.
mr president, i do not intend in any way to criticise the environment committee or the rapporteur, but like mr corbett i wish to emphasise that there must be a better way to conduct voting than this. we need some constitutional change to enable the committees to work properly rather than the house as a whole acting as a committee. ** *
in writing. - the state of permanent constitutional upheaval which is characteristic of the eu today is a major defect in our constitutional agreements. with the treaty of nice, which is so rapidly succeeding the treaty of amsterdam and which is to be followed by a further igc in 2004, we are living in an era of permanent revolution. there are signs that the next igc could bring about a certain degree of constitutional stability, which is to be welcomed, and to achieve this it is necessary to go through the treaty of nice, despite its obvious shortcomings.
in writing. - labour members of the socialist group welcome the treaty of nice, which paves the way for the enlargement of the european union, an objective which all eu member states have sought to achieve, as have successive british governments. the idea that the treaty of nice transforms the european union into a centralised superstate is nonsense and was rightly called ridiculous in yesterday's debate. this resolution recognizes that the last institutional obstacles to enlargement have been removed and we welcome this. it also considers the need for further reforms, to which the labour party has committed itself, to make the european union more efficient, more transparent and more accountable. however, the resolution contains some unfounded criticisms of the treaty of nice, as well as some proposals that anticipate the debate on the future of europe that will have to take place in the coming years. some of these proposals are premature and others are unlikely to ever be desirable; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
in writing. i have supported amendments nos 14 and 179 to the above report. although the report does not deal with the public's right of access to documents of the institutions, the commission's text seems to introduce a new and ill-defined exception to access to documents, namely 'the interests of the union', which could undermine parliament's right of access to documents. i believe that the commission's proposal, as far as the parts that amendments nos 14 and 179 seek to amend are concerned, conflicts with the recently adopted regulation on article 255 (public access to documents). the regulation provides that all rules on access to documents of the institutions are in accordance with the recently adopted regulation (recital 12).
madam president, my point of order has, perhaps to some extent been pre-empted by the earlier discussion, but following the irish referendum i should like to ask whether you, in your capacity as president of parliament, will write to the president of ireland congratulating the irish people on their wise and far-sighted decision, which strikes a blow for freedom, independence, self-determination and the nation state. i wonder whether you will also join me in congratulating our colleague, dana rosemary scallon, on the marvellous role that she played in ireland in helping to deliver a no vote in the referendum.
madam president, my point also concerns the irish referendum. it has been eloquently made by more experienced members than myself and so, in the interests of not detaining the house, i shall withdraw it.
mr president, following up on mr helmer's point on the irish referendum, you may recall another event last week, in the uk. mr helmer's party campaigned on the principle of keeping the pound against the euro. now we all know that the british people soundly rejected his party on that policy. will he now join me in voting to go with the euro?
madam president, i would like to take this opportunity of thanking my friend and colleague mr mccartin for his lesson in history. however, primarily i want to respond to mr miller who made a point about the british election and about the euro. as he knows perfectly well, but is apparently seeking to hide, the conservative party's position on the euro was supported by between 65% and 70% of the british people. it was the one key issue where the public were definitely and clearly on our side. i would remind mr miller that his prime minister has just sacked the pro-euro foreign minister robin cook and replaced him with the much less pro-euro, indeed some have called him a eurosceptic, mr jack straw. so put that one in your pipe and smoke it!
madam president, i rise on a point of order concerning my friend roger helmer. we share the honour of being representatives for the east midlands – information i give to this house more in shame than in anger. mr mccartin pointed out quite rightly that mr helmer had no understanding of history. in the interests of accuracy: mr helmer has no understanding of politics, of statistics, of literature, of courtesy towards a fellow member state of the european union – and i could go on for a considerable amount of time. (laughter and applause)
madam president, following on from the last comment, it is obvious that the irish made their decision in a very democratic way, as did, alas, the british people, because they voted in this wonderful labour government. but as we are trying to change what the irish said in their referendum, maybe we should look at the british vote. surely this house would have wanted to see a conservative government returned, and on the basis of fact and realistic policy, people would have wanted to vote conservative on thursday last. that is the result that we would all have liked.
madam president, i rise under rule 174, the right to petition the european parliament. you may be aware of a number of petitions concerning lloyd's of london, as well as complaints to the european commission. one of the names of lloyd's of london received a letter from lloyd's criticising him for daring to raise this matter with the commission, and a rather threatening letter saying that it was a clear breach of the terms of an agreement. lloyd's therefore requested written confirmation within seven days that this citizen would desist from taking any further action in breach of the settlement agreement. i have written to the president of the commission, mr prodi, saying that this not only dealt with complaints but also the right to petition parliament. the president is looking into the question of complaints to the commission, but he said clearly this is an issue that parliament would itself want to address. i will certainly give you full details of this later but it is such a serious matter that i thought it should be raised in the house now.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport. – mr president, i too should like to congratulate mrs karamanou on this report. as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on culture, i should also like say a word of thanks for the cross-party cooperation i had in that committee on this most important issue. we must tackle the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography across the eu. whatever anyone thinks of subsidiarity, for something as important as this we have to make sure we have common rules, particularly because of the internet and the free movement of people across the eu countries. i know that there are several child pornographers who have set up business in one eu country because if they are caught they know they will get a lesser sentence in that country. we must make sure that we stamp that out. i am very pleased that much of the opinion i drafted has been accepted by the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs, particularly the section on penalties and ensuring that we have the same penalties across the eu. i thought the commission was wrong to bring in tougher penalties for the exploitation of children under 10. i worked very hard in my committee to make sure we also set tougher penalties for those who commit offences against children under 16. i also wanted to bring in children with learning difficulties. i talked a lot with some of the organisations working in this field and they said that disabled children are twice as likely to be abused as any other children. it is important that we protect children with learning disabilities, whose mental age is often much lower than their physical age. the question of definitions is, of course, going to be difficult and we have to work on that. we had great difficulty in the committee on culture, as we have had across the board. but we must make sure that photographs of naked children are caught in that net. we see what happened with the wonderland club, where individuals had to provide 10,000 photographs of naked children in order to get into that wonderland club. i want to say very briefly that we have to clamp down on sex tourism and make sure that nationals from member states can be prosecuted if they commit a crime in third countries.
mr president, the only way to catch international and organised criminals is for our police, prosecutors and judges to work together. anyone who opposes such moves must be prepared to justify traffickers and paedophiles getting off scot-free. i congratulate mrs klamt and mrs karamanou, but on some points my group is not entirely happy. the first problem, in both reports, is the tendency to be too prescriptive and interfering in the detail of member states' criminal justice systems. the first example is penalties. it is quite right to harmonise the maximum sentences, so that wherever a criminal flees, he risks the same penalty – no hiding place. but it is not appropriate either to stipulate that the penalty in connection with trafficking must be a prison sentence or to lay down minimum penalties. i do not always agree with the council, but i agree with its view that approximation of the criminal law of the member states could be necessary for certain specific types of offences, but when approximating criminal law the specificity of the national systems has to be taken into account. both reports are also too prescriptive on the treatment of victims and witnesses, and fail to take differing national arrangements into account. turning to the definition of child pornography in the karamanou report, my group has problems with the definition which includes creating the impression that the person depicted is a child. this will give rise to endless argument and is not a sound basis for a legal definition. it is better to target pornography which exploits real children, not pretend ones. i also wish to draw attention to amendment no 38 from the eldr, which would make access to sex offenders' registers subject to data protection rules. lastly my group agrees with the referral back to committee of mrs klamt's report, for the reasons she gave.
mr president, it is a real pleasure to hear mrs winberg and the commissioner speaking with one voice on an issue which should concern us all. this seems to me to mark a turning point in how this parliament debates these matters, because it sets out here a coherent, ethical framework by which we should all subsequently be judged. animals are not merely products, nor are they simply commodities. one of the most appalling things i heard in my own country came from a trader concerning the spread of foot-and-mouth disease: "they are commodities. i take them around. i trade them here, i trade them there." they are not stocks and shares. they are not speculative metals. they are sentient creatures. because of that i believe, with the commissioner, that the way in which animals are kept reflects on us morally, but also practically, in that bad conditions for animals affect the health and safety of humans as well. the food safety authority will need to address this matter. the commissioner is right to say that consumers would be prepared to pay more for ‘ethical food’. another thing they want – but do not always get – is follow-through in the area where animal welfare is promised, but not always delivered. like everyone else in this house, i hope and expect that the sow stalls proposal will go through on thursday. it will certainly have our support. i would like to feel that at the same time we are looking at other issues which, because they are cherished in some member state or in some particular group or community within the european union, are shrugged aside. i have seen recently that the italians have tackled the issue of how foie gras is produced. others have begun to raise the issue of the cruelties involved in the breeding of animals for the fur trade. now we are coming to the point where, in the testing of chemicals, perhaps we ought to have an absolute assurance (and i know commissioner byrne has gone some way towards this already) that we will minimise – and i use that word advisedly – the number of animals sacrificed in the validation of chemical testing. those things seem to me to be enormously important. against such a backdrop we can begin to persuade the wto that these issues are humanitarian, not protectionist. then, perhaps, we will able to fashion the means of arriving at a food system in which people matter, but animals matter too.
the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i should like to comment on some of the points made in this debate. keppelhoff-wiechert asked the very important question not why, but how. i think we have to ask both questions - not just why, but how. why do we, for example, send animals to third countries? why are we sending calves from sweden to holland? of course, there are answers to these questions. the answer to the first question is that it is profitable because export refunds can be paid when animals are sent from the eu to a third country. small calves are sent from sweden to the netherlands, for example, because it is more profitable. in the netherlands, the breeding method is different from that in sweden. the question must also be asked whether all these transports really have to take place. today, more and more people are asking that question, and more and more are saying no. several speakers have been in on the award. we must of course recognise that if we want good animal welfare and if we want quality rather than quantity in future agricultural production and policy, then there will be a cost. we cannot have the world's cheapest food and the world's best animal welfare and environmental protection. somebody has to pay. the only question is, who? this is also something to consider when we are finally drawing up a new agricultural policy. who's going to pay for animal welfare? who's gonna pay for the open country? who is going to pay for the wetlands, biodiversity, etc.? kindermann was talking about the responsibility of the human being. i share that view. we have a special responsibility for these matters because of our very human status. we have a special status with animals, and we alone can take that responsibility. van den bos made the most far-reaching speech of all of us here. it is certainly easy to make all these demands, but it must also be remembered that they cost money. this doesn't just happen. if, for example, we demand that international trade be based on meat instead of animals, we must also bear in mind that there is a link with the economic system of agricultural policy. we must also reject all export refunds for these animals. schörling, like many others, spoke about supervision. let me say that we cannot simply demand that the commission or the council make improvements in the area of supervision. the main responsibility for supervision lies with the national authorities. i think that everyone should go home to his country and question the supervision of that country. it is only when a country is not doing its job that the commission steps in. the commission has a responsibility to ensure that the various countries are properly supervised. you do that through the dublin office. van dam spoke of restrictions on live animals, and i share that view. unfortunately, the treaty defines animals as goods. there are different views on this, and i think we should start from a different point of view. maat was talking about vaccination and exporting. let me argue that it is not just because of exports that we have this non-vaccination policy. the main reason is that there is no single vaccine for a type of foot-and-mouth disease. the day we find a marker vaccine, we can start mass vaccination for prevention as well. we're not there yet, but research is ongoing. the belgian presidency will organise a conference when the crisis is over, so that we can draw conclusions from the policy that has been pursued in this area. this will not only apply to vaccination but also to other aspects which may even have contributed to the spread of foot-and-mouth disease. this conference will hopefully be held in the autumn. whitehead said that animals are not just products and commodities. in that regard, i refer to my earlier answer animals are sentient beings. he also raised the issue of chemical policy. i would like to recall the commission's white paper on this subject, which states, among other things, that it wants to develop test methods that minimise the number of animals used in animal experiments. i think that's a very good ambition. maes was talking about the inspection trips. i refer here to what i said about the responsibility for supervision. that responsibility lies first with the individual countries themselves, and then the commission checks the countries. schnellhardt spoke of the example of the chickens and said that we had done a lot. we have done some things, but there is still so much to do. he doesn't think people are willing to pay. no, they may not be willing to pay a higher price. we shall then return to the relationship between animal welfare and costs. if we want good animal care and a good environment, it's not free. we must also design an economic system which ensures that those who produce good animal care and good environment are also paid, perhaps in a different way than by higher prices. let me emphasize again how important it is that the european parliament gives an opinion on the new pig farming directive, and i very much welcome whitehead's support on this issue. it is important that we have the opportunity to take a decision as early as next week, because we have been working on this issue for a long time. while i understand the concern about the economic consequences, i nevertheless hope that good animal welfare will pay off, and i really hope for the support of parliament in this process. in conclusion, i would like to thank you very much for allowing us to have this debate. it is vital that it be kept alive if the question of man's relationship to animals is to evolve over time. we have a moral responsibility to treat animals well. cruelty to animals is unworthy of us humans.
commission. – mr president, mrs winberg, ladies and gentlemen, i thank everybody for their contribution to this debate. i have taken very careful note of the views expressed and will take them into account in the formulation of policy and in bringing forward legislation in due course. let me deal with a number of the individual issues that were raised by many of you. first of all, there is the question of animal transport. this is an issue that will get further attention from the commission on production of the scientific committee's report in october, when consideration will be given to the important issues of density and length of time of transport. i should issue a word of caution to those of you who have a strong desire for, or who expect, the elimination of live animal transport. some people made the point that carcass transport should replace live animal transport. there is a very large trade in animals for breeding purposes and it appears that a very significant percentage of animals are transported for breeding purposes rather than for consumption. i have asked for more details on this but i am told that is the position. this issue will be considered in the light of the advice given to us by the scientific committee. another issue of considerable concern is the loading and unloading of animals. i expect that the scientists who advise us will also focus on that issue, maybe seeing it as even more important than the length of time over which an animal is transported, so long as the conditions under which the animal is transported are humane. i would remind you that legislation is already in the pipeline on the upgrading of the vehicles used for animal transport. mr maat then asked me about the consequences for trade arising from the vaccination policy in the foot-and-mouth disease issue. i would repeat what mrs winberg said, that there will be a conference on this issue during the belgian presidency. it is an issue of particular complexity. we were very clearly advised that the most effective way, certainly in the middle of the crisis, of eliminating further spread is the culling of the animals concerned rather than the use of vaccination. moreover there are at least seven strains of foot-and-mouth disease, all of which require a separate and distinct vaccination. the vaccination administered is effective for only six to nine months. if we were to vaccinate all of the animals in the european union that are susceptible to foot-and-mouth disease, this would result in vaccinations being administered to 300 million animals every six months against seven different strains. a really successful vaccination policy will only come about when science has developed a form of marker vaccination. that means that where a marker vaccination has been administered, a subsequent test will be able to identify whether an animal is a vaccinated animal instead of an infected animal. at present such a distinction cannot be made once a vaccination has been administered. in those circumstances, the other trading blocs in the world are concerned about trading in animals which are vaccinated but may also be infected, thereby increasing the risk of spreading the infection in their own countries. this is not an unreasonable apprehension. we hope that science will develop this market vaccination for us and we will then be in a position to take further strides forward on this issue. this is something that will be discussed, however, and considered in the context of the conference before the end of the year, together with other issues. the importation of vaccinated animals and the exportation of meat from animals that are vaccinated is governed by the oie rules. they apply equally to exportation out of the european union as they do to importation within the european union. it is quite incorrect to say that different principles apply or that some discrimination operates against traders within the european union. mrs maes referred to the resources available and it is correct to say that there are four inspectors involved in this work. they draft reports, which are published of course, and forwarded to me for consideration as to whether infringement proceedings should be initiated or not. the present position is that infringement proceedings have been initiated against greece and belgium in relation to the implementation of directive 91/628. the opening of infringement proceedings against italy is also being considered. furthermore, infringement proceedings are under consideration for the following member states that did not comply with article 8 of the directive, concerning the transmission to the commission of their annual inspection report for the year 1999: austria, the netherlands and portugal. i have given instructions to my staff to pay close attention to this issue. if there is a clear and persistent failure to comply with the legislation on animal welfare, infringement proceedings will be initiated against the member state in question. on the question of price and standards and taking into account consumer concern for animal welfare, i am happy to tell you that commissioner fischler and i have initiated a debate at european union level, and with all the member states, on the question of food quality and the part that animal welfare plays in that context. this initiative, draws together a high-level, round table advisory group made up of primary producers, food processors, retailers and consumers. the group intends to visit all the member states to discuss these issues. we have already visited sweden, ireland and germany and we are scheduled to visit france, belgium, the united kingdom and austria in the very near future. we held an internet chat last tuesday, where we were asked in excess of 2600 questions in a period of two hours. by any calculation that is an extraordinary response which reflects people's enormous interest in issues relating to food quality and animal welfare. many of the questions that were raised in that internet chat were directed at the issue of animal welfare. you can see from this that the commission is taking this issue very seriously, it is constantly on the commission's agenda and i look forward to bringing further proposals back to parliament in due course on these issues. i would like to finish by quoting what mr whitehead said in his speech calling for a food system in which 'people matter but animals matter too'. i fully agree.
- the next item is the report (a5-0191/2001) by mrs dybkjær, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on information and communication technologies (ict) and developing countries (2000/2327 (ini)).
commission. – mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs dybkjær on her report on information and communication technologies in developing countries. it is a refreshing and stimulating report with a lot of insight and proposals. i particularly appreciated the efforts to put the new technologies in the context of poverty alleviation and the need to ensure that poor people profit from it. for the commission, this is a fundamental point. indeed, the digital divide – that is to say the unequal access to information and communication technologies among and within countries – is a reflection of existing social and economic inequalities in both industrialised and developing countries. ict did not create inequality, but it may well fuel it unless we are conscious of its impact. on the other hand. if applied with pragmatic realism, ict can be a useful tool for economic development, and possibly even underpin the positive evolution of democracy. mrs dybkjær's report is well timed. as we all know, the g8 leaders will be meeting in july in genoa to consider, among other things, the reports and proposals by the dot force. meps will have a second opportunity to discuss ict and development subjects at the october session of the eu–acp joint assembly, on the basis of a report by mrs junker. the commission, for its part, is preparing a communication, to be submitted later in the year. the report and motion for a resolution make several proposals on the role of community development cooperation in respect of ict. we welcome the suggestion that we work closely with member states' aid agencies and define a division of labour in ict. it is indeed important to distinguish between what should be done and what the commission needs to do. tasks and responsibilities can be shared with member states; this is work in which the commission will participate, both within the g8 and with member states, but it will not take the lead. likewise, we welcome the consideration of ict in country strategy papers. that will ensure that ict is used in the context of a country's overall development policy and that the choice of priority sectors remains country- and not donor-driven. we have some difficulties, however, with the proposal to widen the development priority areas. the joint statement of the council and the commission on european community development priority policies was approved only last november. this proposal would run counter to it. the commission has to focus its activities if it wants to deliver on its aid agenda. paragraphs 20 and 22 call on the commission to play a greater role in ict and development than seems reasonable or realistic at the present moment. more fundamentally, the commission is making a serious effort to improve its aid management and increase its poverty focus. it will take some years for changes to take effect. if we do not, however, make a serious effort to focus on a limited number of priority areas, we shall only succeed in perpetuating the current problems. the commission is ready to consider the use of ict within the existing priority areas and cross-cutting themes – if and when they are cost-effective in achieving stated objectives, and indeed that is increasingly the case. adopting good governance, capacity-building, regional integration and administrative reform as focal points will, in many cases, accelerate the use of ict as an important tool. making specific provision for ict within thematic budget lines would not, however, be consistent with our approach of using ict as an integral part of our work in priority areas. the commission has reservations about the proposal to create an e-development unit within europeaid cooperation office and has created a unit for innovation with a similar mandate in mind for cross-cutting themes across the various geographical directorates, and feels that this meets its needs adequately. finally, in paragraph 32 the draft resolution calls for a report in 2003. the commission has promised to submit an annual report on community development policy and therefore proposes to cover ict, as appropriate, in that annual report. the commission looks forward to contributing further to debates on ict when it presents its communication later in the year.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0122/2001) by mr aparicio sánchez, on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, on the report from the commission to the council, the european parliament and the economic and social committee on the application of council regulation (eec) no 3911/92 concerning the export of cultural goods and council directive 93/7/eec on the return of cultural goods unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state (com (2000) 325 - c5-0509/2000 - 2000/2246 (cos)).
commission. – mr president, the commission shares parliament's concern regarding the protection of the cultural heritage of the member states. the commission is devoting particular attention to this question in the enlargement negotiations. i note that the motion for a resolution calls on the commission to examine the problem of illegal trade in cultural objects. i would point out that this goes beyond the scope of the commission's reports on the application of regulation no 3911/92 and directive 93/7. i would, however, underline the multidisciplinary and inter-pillar nature of this problem, as highlighted by parliament's committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs. in view of the powers attributed to the community by the treaties there is a danger that focusing attention on the cultural policy aspects of the problem of illegal trade in cultural objects may reduce the effectiveness of any community action in this field. i should like to assure members that the commission has already taken measures aimed at improving administrative cooperation between the member states with a view to protecting their cultural heritage. those measures are drawn up by the advisory committee on cultural goods and the forum on the prevention of organised crime. the commission would like to ask parliament to give its backing to those moves. as a collegiate body, the commission will continue to examine the problem of illegal trade in cultural objects and accord it the priority which it deserves. lastly, in answer to the question put by mr alyssandrakis a little while ago, the commission has constantly launched initiatives aimed at contributing to the fight against illegal trade in cultural objects. perhaps i may give some examples of initiatives launched by the commission. firstly, financing of an internet website project allowing information on cultural objects to be exchanged. secondly, the launch of a study on the traceability of cultural objects. thirdly, the creation of a working party within the advisory committee on cultural goods whose task is to draw up guidelines for administrative cooperation. fourthly, and lastly, an examination of the problem of cultural objects under the forum for the prevention of organised crime.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the next item is the report (doc. (the sitting was closed at 8.55 p.m.)
rapporteur. – mr president, this is a moment of some importance for consumer protection in the european union. the institutions of the union have come together to set out the principles of food law in the shape of a new authority which can safeguard the food we eat and the way it is produced. you cannot have the one without the other. to those who say we have gone too fast and that the commission or the council are urging us to move too quickly during this presidency, i would say simply that we are repairing the neglect of decades in which the very variety and self-sufficiency of our foodstuffs hid great disasters, from bse, to dioxins, to some of the scourges of the present day. it is the particular task of this parliament to refine and specify the proposal from the commission, that is, to remind citizens and stakeholders alike exactly what we are intending to do to safeguard all parts of the food chain, at whatever point we happen to be in it, from primary producers through to ultimate consumers. we all have a stake in the kind of food that is circulated in europe, how it is produced, how it is prepared and ultimately how it is checked. this authority is primarily concerned with food safety. that is why our committee strongly supported the change of title. we believe it is necessary because there must be clear but also limited and targeted ambitions for this authority. they must relate to what it is able to do in terms of its remit and also in terms of its budget, and not in terms of all of the other ambitions that might be piled upon it by those who wish it to do a variety of different things. everything has to be seen through this focus. i would say to some of my colleagues in the committee who moved a variety of amendments aimed at the further restyling of the title of this authority: the priorities are set out in the report as amended. if you want a proper reference to hygiene or to nutrition or to quality or to our affection for traditional foods, as some of the amendments have proposed, my answer would be: look in the report. they are all there in due measure. but they are not there in the title. they are not in themselves the primary function of this new authority. i owe a great debt to my colleagues of all parties in the committee. the report was passed in the committee on the environment by 40 votes to 0 with 2 abstentions. the large number of amendments which we shall put forward today in blocked groups reflects the degree of consensus that we ourselves reached. here i also owe a debt to the commission for its help, to the swedish presidency, which has taken this through with a commendable sense of urgency, and most of all to my own parliamentary assistant, michele smyth who has laboured tirelessly on all of this. i should like to raise some of the salient points about which there will still be argument and upon which a number of the amendments have been based. should the new authority be appointed on the basis of ability and merit, through a full process of scrutiny, or should it be by the old road of quiet nomination? we go for merit every time. we go for openness. we go for transparency. the member states will play a full role through the continuum of the advisory forum. they do not need to be in a position where, proportionally, they plant their flags around every seat at the new authority's table. we do not think that the authority should be responsible for the rapid alert system. we think ultimate responsibility must rest with the commission. the authority should be financed entirely from the budget, on which this parliament can share the decisions. the eur 44 million envisaged is a fairly small sum, compared to other european agencies. it is only one third of the budget which the british food standards agency had at its inception. there are amendments, including some from the committee on budgets, which i would support, suggesting that we take in hand the precise financing of this agency ourselves. my final point is about the site of the new authority. there are those who would like it to be determined by codecision involving this parliament. there are those who think it should be decided ultimately by the council on a proposal by the commission with the assent of this parliament. my own view is that we should have a free vote on this, because it seems to me that those in the house who wish to take the codecision route have a right to vote for it. my own scepticism remains. i think we should take the traditional route, on this issue at least. i commend this report to the house. this is an idea which has not so much found its time as found us at precisely the right moment. i hope the house will support it in the vote.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on fisheries. – mr president, on behalf of the committee on fisheries i welcome the proposal wholeheartedly. whilst doing so i stress that it is imperative that the specific characteristics of the fisheries and the aquaculture sectors are taken into account. these sectors present quite different questions from the general food industry categories and the challenges raised by recent problems in fisheries, including infectious salmon anaemia, amnesic shellfish poisoning and dioxins, require industry-specific measures. moreover, adequate consideration must be given to the special needs of the peripheral communities, such as those in scotland and other fishing nations which fisheries support. that is why the committee on fisheries supported my amendment introducing a new recital on traceability. the very nature of fisheries has implications for traceability. there are numerous potential difficulties which the commission must ensure are catered for, taking into account different methods of catch, where fish are caught, where they are landed and also problems associated with black fish. in addition, i felt it was essential that the composition of the management board ensures a balanced representation of expertise covering all relevant sectors involved in food production, distribution and animal feed and including, in particular, fisheries. it is regrettable that neither of these priorities were taken on board by the committee responsible. i would urge the commissioner to take them into account. please note that i am not suggesting increasing the size or changing the method of appointing the board, merely that the relevant expertise should be included. i welcome, however, amendments which follow the gist of my opinion, redefining the definitions of food unfit for human consumption and contaminated food in amendments nos 43 and 44, as they are more in line with the policy the commission has pursued in the wake of the outbreak of infectious salmon anaemia. finally, the committee on fisheries endorsed amendments nos 35 and 51, which take into account the distinct needs of the aquaculture sectors and, in particular, the amendments that address concerns which have been voiced about the development of genetically modified fish, to prevent them from entering the food chain through the back door via third-country imports. i would therefore urge the house to support these amendments.
mr president, there are two key reasons for action in this field. firstly, we are mutually dependent on each other for the safety of our food and drink. food is a single market and food safety is a public health issue. each country cannot send its food and farming police to sample the corn, chew the cattle and spot-check the vines in every other country. we rely on common standards upheld by consistent levels of inspection, assessment and enforcement. secondly, the public has lost confidence in the old national and european food safety systems; after the scandals and scares about olive oil, wine, mineral water, beef, eggs, poultry, milk, e-coli, listeria, salmonella, dioxins, hormones and gm foods – and the list goes on. the public wants to be reassured that the long road from seed or stable to market, supermarket, processing plant, oven, fridge and table is as safe as can reasonably be expected. they want safety assessment that is neither conducted behind the closed doors of the commission nor tainted by producer or pressure group interest. so just as when my report, at the white paper stage, demanded a system based on science and focused on safety, again we say right across this house: keep the food safety authority slim, transparent, independent and dedicated to assessment of food safety risk and to recommendations as to what action, if any, should be taken. do not roam down the lanes of healthy eating or comparative diets, however important in health promotion work such routes may be. keep the word safety in the title of the authority to give a clear signal as to its purpose and methodology. be, and be seen to be, independent of any one member state and of the commission, so do not have a board that allows each country to have a place on it. keep the number to 12. do not place the efsa in any building or venue that has close connections with the institutions of the european union. appoint the director of the board after open competition and a parliamentary hearing. account to parliament annually for the stewardship of the remit. publish without delay the conclusions and any minority conclusions of the board on any assessed risk, and hold meetings of the board in public. attach the food safety bodies of member states to the authority through an advisory committee comprising the national directors of such bodies. i commend this report and i commend the rapporteur for a job well done, not least because of the inter-party and inter-country cooperation and discussion throughout. as a result the amendments in committee, which will in due course be largely subsumed in composite form, can nearly all be supported. to the commission and the council i would say: note the strength of unity in this parliament on these key issues; cooperate with us in partnership and the beneficiaries will be the european consumers in every member state.
mr president, in his eloquent introduction the rapporteur referred to the importance of focus and reasserted the importance of the word "safety" being in the title of this authority, which i very much support. i would like to stress a different word in the title and that is the word "authority", because it is vital that this is a body to which the rest of the eu can look up. that is why i tabled an amendment in committee about the location of this new authority, saying that "in order to encourage respect for eu law, it should only be located in a country within the top half of member states in terms of the fewest cases outstanding in the ecj for alleged breaches of eu law". this went through committee without opposition and i am surprised and a little disappointed that some colleagues today should be upset about this amendment. the point is that certain countries vote for eu laws and then quite simply ignore them. this hypocrisy has to stop. by voting through this amendment now as part of amendment no 188, parliament would make clear that such member states could not expect the benefits of hosting such new agencies if they are not prepared to exercise their responsibilities. this is not proposed out of malice. this is not proposed out of mischief. it is proposed out of principle. european agencies are there to be upholders of eu law and to be an example to others, to command respect and inspire confidence. this role would be undermined if the member states themselves are not seen to be champions of the eu laws they are supposed to uphold. we have a chance today, and in the vote tomorrow, to give a very clear signal. what signal do we want to give? do we want to say that upholding eu laws does not matter or do we want to say it actually matters a very great deal? i urge the house to give a very clear signal, a very positive signal, to vote "yes" to this amendment and for this vote to be clear and unambiguous.
mr president, there have been two disasters in british agriculture in recent years. these are bse and foot-and-mouth disease, which is still raging in my region. both have had a devastating effect on individual farmers and the industry as a whole. public confidence has been destroyed. our markets have been destabilised and the taxpayer has had to fork out billions to compensate farmers for infected and suspected animals. many have seen generations of work literally go up in smoke on the funeral pyres, which are still burning. most disturbing of all, it is a fact that because of bse people have died, not the large numbers forecast by some scientists, but even the death of one young person is one too many for a family. we still do not know the final death toll of variant cjd. these two epidemics have one thing in common: they can both be directly linked to feeding animal waste back to animals. there is a debate as to how the bse epidemic started. the latest theory is that it came from deer; but it could have been a mutation or it could have been around for years. the fact is that it was multiplied by the recycling of waste into meat and bone meal. our initial reaction in the united kingdom was to introduce a ruminant ban on meat and bone meal. that did not work because of cross-contamination. feed was contaminated in the mills, in the transport system or on farms containing different classes of livestock. so in the uk we opted for a complete ban. mrs paulsen wants to fine-tune the partial ban to include the non-cannibalistic reintroduction of meat and bone meal from category 3 material, that is, material which is suitable for human consumption. she wants to feed chickens to pigs and pigs to chickens. i know that chickens are omnivores but i am sure that they do not naturally live on pork. if the rules were obeyed we would have no problem. my worry is about cross-contamination. we have already had specified risk material found on beef carcases imported into the uk on 15 occasions since january: beef from the netherlands, spain, ireland, italy – and germany, which accounted for seven of the cases. if we cannot get it right for the beef for human consumption, if we cannot get it right in germany, which has one of the best records in the eu, how can we expect that the waste will be correctly segregated in greece or italy or spain? we should therefore keep to the ban on meat and bone meal. amendment no 100 facilitates this continued ban. the same applies to foot-and-mouth. we had an epidemic in the uk in 1967 that was linked to the feeding of swill. we introduced strict controls. those strict controls have not been implemented correctly on every farm, otherwise we would not have the massive epidemic that we have at the moment. it is important that catering waste is included in these proposals. i should like to pay tribute to mrs paulsen on the inclusive way that she has approached the other groups on this issue and in particular the practical improvements that have been suggested. they include those on waste incineration, allowing small-farm incinerators to continue; on allowing burial on farm in remote areas; on the exemption of manure produced on farms; on the uses of meat and bone meal as fertilizers, given the safeguards that exist; also, on the alternatives to rendering, such as alkaline hydrolysis. we cannot lower our guard, because by recycling animal by-products as feed we risk also recycling the pathogens that cause bse, foot-and-mouth and other diseases. the economic advantages of doing this pale into insignificance compared with the devastation that has been the direct result of this risky practice.
mr president, i should like to congratulate mrs paulsen on the way she has handled this complex matter and, as mr goodwill said, has brought the committee once again to a consensus. my group commends her approach and will support the bulk of the amendments which have been tabled in the committee on the environment. i should like to make one or two points on the nature of the scourges we face. mr goodwill said that we have had these two great disasters but there is a third disaster which produced them. that was the indifference, and sometimes the greed, of those who stood by while the methods of rendering animal waste and feeding it back to animals became more and more extensive and the potential for disaster therefore even greater. so this is not a moment when we can happily contemplate the intra-species recycling of animal protein or indeed anything which brings about a further degree of risk in our agricultural system. we are still learning from the foot-and-mouth epidemic in the united kingdom. in regard to the disposal of animal waste we have found that one attempt to avoid risk has faced us with another risk. when we look at incineration, when we look at burial and look at the hazards, created by the 1% of farms that have still been using swill for pigs, we see additional risks on each side. that is why i too support the idea of looking at alternatives which minimise risk. alkaline hydrolysis is one such method. we need to be able to show that we are ahead of this particular scourge. the problem in the past was that we were like countries preparing for the last war and not the next one. we are constantly struggling with the element of unknown risk. mrs paulsen's proposals have gone a long way towards improving what the commission has tried to do in relation to the disposal of tses.
rapporteur. – mr president, a friend who used to work for a leading wildlife conservation ngo tells me that it was a depressing experience each morning to read her e-mails detailing the loss of habitats and new threats to the survival of species across the world. i can understand that. so it is a pleasure to acknowledge that not every environmental problem is beyond resolution and that, in some instances as least, we are capable of turning the tide. such is the case with air pollution. the evidence is that now, at least in some cities and towns across europe, the air we breathe is perhaps purer than at any time since the beginning of the industrial revolution. problems remain. it is claimed that air pollution still contributes to more premature deaths than traffic accidents, but progress is being made. ground-level ozone is a pollutant which still severely affects the health of many of our citizens. it contributes to problems of asthma in children – now said to affect as many as one in ten children in the united kingdom alone – and to breathing difficulties in the elderly. in severe circumstances people die. government studies in my country suggest that ozone may lead to the premature death of 12 500 people each year. we are all well aware of the problems experienced in some cities in europe, such as athens, where the problem is intensified by particular climatic conditions. pollution has further economic consequences, by reducing crop yields and damaging trees. european legislation plays an increasing role in setting tighter standards and curbing pollution. nothing better illustrates this than the need for concerted action on ozone. it is created by a chemical reaction between sunlight and oxides of nitrogen and volatile organic compounds derived mostly from vehicle emissions and petrol distribution. it is often formed miles from the source of the problem. so it is a classic trans-boundary pollutant requiring trans-boundary action at european level. the national emissions ceiling directive will provide the framework for reductions in key air pollutants. this directive concerns the action which member states should take locally to deal with the particular problem of ozone. at first reading i welcomed the commission's proposals to set a target value encouraging member states not to permit ozone to exceed the world health organisation's guidelines of more than 20 days a year; to alert the public if local health risks are high; and to compare the performance of different countries. but i argued that the proposals were not demanding enough. parliament has made a number of changes and, of the 19 amendments we agreed on, the council has accepted ten of the minor ones in full and another four in part. the council has also decided that it wants the target for the maximum number of exceedances to be 25 rather than 20 days. this does not sound too bad a compromise. perhaps i am just a bit cynical in suggesting that it is too easy for ministers to agree tough targets which are not legally binding. parliament should be taking steps now to ensure that the final shape of the legislation places firm obligations on member states to achieve the objectives they claim they want to achieve. i want member states to be required to meet the target, save where it is physically impossible for them to do so. i want them to work towards a date by which the long-term objective of never having ozone levels exceeding who guidelines will be achieved. i want them quickly to implement short-term action plans if ozone levels exceed double the who recommendations, and i want them to provide the commission with information of a standard which enables comparison to be made between the performance of different member states, so that the public can determine which countries are making a real effort and which are not. in saying this, i recognise the need to take into account the fact that one country may not be responsible for the pollution which affects it. i also understand that meteorological conditions vary. the north west of england, for example, may generate more traffic fumes than many places elsewhere in europe but, because we are not blessed with too much sunlight, ozone is less of a problem to us than it may be in spain. i do not wish, in particular, to place too onerous a burden upon mediterranean countries. but parliament needs to adopt a strong position now, in order that the final agreement we reach with the council reflects the need for member states to take some real action. i thank colleagues in other parties for working with me to try and ensure that parliament's position commands a large majority. i thank parliament's staff and, in particular, my assistant, vikki phillips, who has made a very considerable contribution to this process over the past year. we have an opportunity to make a contribution to the process of reducing pollution and cleaning the air we breathe. i hope parliament will give its support to the proposals in this report and the compromises agreed between the political parties, and that we play our part in achieving what could be another success story for the european environment. (applause)
in writing. - i warmly welcome the efforts of my labour colleague, mr whitehead, to put forward measures to establish a european food authority to deal with food safety and consumer concerns. in the light of all these alarming reports on food safety, it is imperative that we protect european citizens and our food safety standards. in this context, i support mr whitehead's proposal to include the term 'safety' in the name of the body, which would thus become the 'european food safety authority'. we must put safety first and ensure that hazardous substances do not sneak into the food chain. in addition, the mandate of the authority should be extended to include animal health and welfare, plant health, gmos and food labelling. of course, the health and well-being of our citizens is of paramount importance. we call for the creation of an authority which, on the one hand, has a clear and focused mission to examine food safety issues and, on the other hand, is based on the principles of transparency and meritocracy. the labour meps are at the forefront of consumer protection in europe. we are continually supporting proposals to ensure strict control of food safety within the eu. the whitehead report is further proof that europe is putting its affairs in order and putting the safety of its citizens first. only clear principles and a specific mission will enable the eea to win the trust of consumers and the entire eu food sector.
in writing. - i congratulate my socialist colleague, mrs karamanou, on her report on the fight against the sexual exploitation of children. europe must introduce stricter measures to solve this disturbing problem and ensure that offenders are punished in the same way throughout the european union. we have all heard of the sordid and tragic cases of child pornography and exploitation of children in europe. we must ensure that history does not repeat itself. our children must never suffer such afflictions again and we must do everything in our power to prevent such situations. cooperation between the member states of the european union should be stepped up through common penalties and cooperation between the police services of the member states. those involved in the sexual exploitation of children must face harsher sentences and the perpetrators of these offences must not be released unpunished. strict action must be taken against those who exploit children, as well as those who profit financially from it or who are members of a criminal organisation. parents who consented to a child's involvement in prostitution or pornographic activities should be considered criminals. i fully agree with mrs karamanou that victims and witnesses should be given better protection and assistance. financial compensation for rehabilitation is important, but we should bear in mind that one can never redeem one's innocence. our children are the most vulnerable citizens: let us do everything we can to protect them.
in writing. - i support this report on human trafficking. europe must crack down on human trafficking. human trafficking, which involves the use of force, violence, deception and abuse of its victims, is completely unacceptable. some 120 000 women and children are abducted in central europe each year and brought to the eu to be exploited. this type of activity must not only be reprehensible but also be classified as a criminal offence. i firmly believe that common rules should be established for sentencing and that the guilty should be sentenced to a minimum of six years in prison, with a maximum of ten years for more serious cases. all those involved in human trafficking must be severely punished, whether they are police officers, customs officers or civil servants. but in all this we must not forget the needs and sufferings of the victims. they should be given better support, including financial compensation from confiscated proceeds of crime. the single european market allows for the crossing of frontiers, but we must do everything we can to prevent them from being exploited in this way. if we are truly a europe of citizens, we must put citizens first and protect them from abuses like these.
mr president, firstly, i should like to congratulate mr davies for the work that he has done on this report. he brings something to us which will hopefully provide some interesting issues to be debated and discussed and then resolved in consultation. this report excellently demonstrates why environment policy has to be achieved at a european level. ozone is a european problem and the best example i can think of a problem that has to be addressed at the european level. for example, within the united kingdom, where in many ways the circumstances are amongst the most favourable within the european union, 50% of the ozone is created by emissions outside the uk. that is very much the pattern for the rest of europe. indeed, in many parts of europe, a great many of the problems about ozone are not necessarily a consequence of activities by that individual member state. ozone is a collective problem which has to be dealt with collectively. i have one concern, namely that we are trying to set too strict values. we are setting target values that, by their very nature, will be almost impossible for many member states to meet in certain given circumstances during the year. they are going to be, through no fault of their own, in breach of european legislation. it is not sensible that we should create a piece of legislation that puts member states in this position. there are many member states, particularly in southern and eastern-central europe who are going to find themselves constantly in breach of this legislation, no matter what they do. some of the things they are going to have to do, where physically possible, as indicated in the compromise amendments, is to close factories, perhaps shut down whole parts of industry, and create car-free zones inside their cities. and still they will not solve the problem of ozone. still they will find themselves breaching this regulation we are creating. when we go into conciliation – as i expect we will because we will have the votes for many of these amendments in the house – we are going to have to think very carefully about whether we continue to adopt this type of approach and this type of legislation.
mr president, during the formal and informal debate on this issue over the last few weeks and months, both the commission and the council have indicated that it is not the business of the european parliament to stick its nose into the substance of wto cases. i broadly agree. the council and the commission have also indicated that they think it is none of the european parliament's business to issue awkward declarations on issues which are basically sub judice. again, under normal circumstances, i would agree. but i would ask the council and the commission to tell me what we are supposed to do when we ask both of them in committee several times for justifications of how and why the decision was taken to launch this highly sensitive case and we get no more than a mere technocratic response. what are we supposed to do when we are told the decision was taken over lunch, not even by ministers, but over lunch in some obscure council working group without any minutes to justify to the public or, indeed, to politicians such as ourselves, why the eu is launching yet another politically sensitive trade dispute? what strikes me is the sheer naivety of both the commission and the council in tackling such a highly political issue as if it were nothing more than a technical decision. it is simply inconceivable that the us administration in washington would rush headlong into yet another trade dispute with the eu without first ensuring there is a minimum of political backing in congress. i find it very striking that both the commission and the council have failed to do that this time. it has been suggested that those who have signed this hotly worded declaration were behaving irresponsibly. some members of this parliament feel it was irresponsible. it is surely much more irresponsible to launch such a politically and commercially sensitive trade dispute without even a ritual nod towards the normal standards of transparency and political probity. it is not an issue of reforming article 133. it is simply expecting both the commission and the council to conduct trade policy, particularly on politically sensitive issues, in a more transparent and politically intelligent manner.
mr president, others have talked about the issue of dispute settlement specifically. i would like to focus on the wider issue of democracy and accountability more generally. this specific case demonstrates precisely the absence of democratic accountability in eu trade policy. that is a huge indictment of the largest trading block in the world which prides itself on standing up for those very values. the nice treaty could have been an opportunity to begin to improve the democracy and transparency of eu trade policy but in fact the treaty makes these matters worse by increasing the powers of the commission but not balancing that by increasing the powers of parliament via the codecision procedure. meanwhile at council level the 133 committee meets behind closed doors. as parliamentarians we are not even allowed as observers much less as participants. we receive no minutes of these meetings. there is no formal dialogue between us. we thank you for the informal receptions which are very nice but they are no real substitute for a formal dialogue. furthermore in spite of all the rhetoric about trade policy supporting sustainable development, when you look at who attends the 133 meetings, it is usually simply the representatives from the trade and finance ministries alone. but if we are serious about integrating international trade and sustainable development, then the very minimum we need to do is to ensure that representatives from social affairs, from environment, from development ministries have their voices heard at 133 meetings as well. if sustainability really is a key issue for the eu and if the swedish presidency is really serious about openness, could the presidency tell us if first of all it envisages a formalised dialogue between parliament and the 133 committee, and secondly if it is ready to propose revisions to the composition of that committee. ultimately, in order to make it more likely that trade policy enjoys the support of both parliamentarians and the wider public, parliament should in the longer term have codecision powers, not only on the final outcome of any new trade agreement but also crucially on the commission's mandate for negotiations. the eu says it is committed to reforming the world trade organisation but a first place to start would be to reform the decision-making machinery of the eu itself.
commission. – first of all may i thank the house for the attention that honourable members are paying, not only to relations between the european union and asia, but also to the asem process in particular. the significant interest that this report has triggered also demonstrates how important asia is for our union, a point very well made by a number of speakers. as i am sure the house will understand, this is a subject on which i have certain views myself. the commission shares to a very large extent the evaluation and concerns expressed in the report, in particular those regarding the importance of further strengthening our dialogue with asian-asem partners on political, as well as on economic and social issues. we also think that asem should be concentrating upon issues of global concern. one issue that we keep coming back to is the importance that we attach to the three pillars, political, economic and cultural-social, developing at the same pace. some of our asian partners are more interested in having a predominantly economic dialogue, letting the political dialogue lag behind. the asian partners fear interference in their internal affairs and see the different levels of development as an obstacle to the advocated partnership of equals. the commission does not share this view and nor do other european partners. development cooperation itself is, of course, dealt with in other fora, but asem is and should remain a forum for dialogue among equal partners. a few weeks ago i attended the third asem foreign ministers meeting in beijing. we addressed a multitude of issues. we did not agree on all of them, but there would be no point in having a dialogue if we saw everything identically. at the same time, the need to improve the management of the asem process is extremely clear. these very broad agendas – there were 19 items on our agenda for the foreign ministers' meeting – lead to a lack of focus. that is why we have proposed to cluster activities. that is why we have suggested informal, retreat-style meetings for the highest level of participants to allow them to concentrate upon a few key issues. these issues should have some asem added value; in other words it must make sense to deal with them on a bi-regional level. there seems to be a high degree of consensus on the need for reform. we agreed on the need to cut down on pre-prepared speeches and pre-cooked and usually over-boiled chairmen's statements, which no one ever reads. i become profoundly suspicious of the added value of meetings where most of the real dialogue takes place beforehand in discussions on the joint statement to be issued, and at which as many people are present as at a less important football match in my own country. we need more focus, more dialogue, and more concentration on the principal participants and on fewer subjects. there should be more scope for free discussion and bilateral meetings. for example, i had a very useful first exchange with the new thai foreign minister and we also held european union troika meetings with indonesia and with china. another positive step forward is that our asian partners seem more inclined to increase the involvement of civil society. we have also discussed the importance of involving parliamentarians in the process. young parliamentarians have met under the auspices of asef, the asia-europe foundation. perhaps it is time to go further and revive exchanges between parliamentarians from the asem countries, so i warmly welcome the intention to call a second asia-europe parliamentary meeting before the copenhagen summit in 2002. i was delighted by the calls for greater involvement of parliament in the asem process. this is the third time that i have had the opportunity to discuss asem in parliament. the first occasion was a very intimate one, there were two other members of the house present that evening with me. we shared a sort of post-candlelight supper together. the second occasion we discussed asem, there were three other members of parliament in the chamber with me. today we have seen what can only be seen as an exponential growth in the interest in asem and i hope that before my five years are up on 22 january 2005 the chamber will be packed when we discuss the relationship with asem and with asia as a whole. i note the request for a new working document in advance of the copenhagen asem meeting and i hope we will be able to have something further to say on eu-asia relations generally. i expect to return to parliament shortly to discuss a new communication intended to update the 1994 asia strategy. this is scheduled for adoption by the commission in july and it will provide us with an occasion for a wider debate on eu-asia relations. it will need to cover the sort of points raised by a number of members in this debate, including the chairman of the committee on foreign affairs and mr marset campos. our recent visit to the korean peninsula demonstrated that the european union has considerable interests well beyond the arc of instability which surrounds the union from kaliningrad in the north to the southern caucasus in the south. my own recent visit to china demonstrated the importance of the european union there too. it is worth recalling that today china has a 45 billion euro trade surplus with the european union. when i was in china i was delighted that i was able to meet members of the chinese parliament who, like me, expressed wonder at some of the continuing evidence of chinese economic development. but, as mr cushnahan said, we have to talk about other issues as well as trade and commercial relations. we cannot have a frank political dialogue with china without having an equally frank exchange about human rights. that is not meant to sound superior and we are not asserting that europe somehow has a monopoly of wisdom on human rights. but it is our unshakeable view that human rights have universal validity and that a dialogue about human rights is appropriate in all our relationships. i noted what the honourable member said about the development of our external services in asia. i hope that is a point we will be able to be more open about in a few weeks' time in the communication we are about to discuss. i could have talked about japan. i could have talked about south-east asia. there are a number of subjects which we need to discuss in more detail. there are many reasons for arguing, as the honourable member did a few moments ago, that the relationship we have with asia is an exceptionally important part of our external relations overall. i very much hope that in the coming weeks and months we will have many further opportunities of discussing it in this house.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- doc. a5-0199/2001 by mr galeote quecedo, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the communication from the commission on the development of the external service (com (2000) 456 - c5-0629/2000 - 2000/2292 (cos)).
mr president, it seems to me that we need to distinguish two aspirations which are contained in the galeote report and which to some extent lead in different directions. i refer on the one hand to the need to improve the commission's efficiency in achieving its priority tasks and on the other hand the ambition to create some sort of eu diplomatic service. the emphasis should be on the first of these, and this is reflected very much in paragraph 1 of the galeote report which, and i quote: "insists that the overriding priority for the external service of the commission must be the efficient organisation and management of eu external assistance programmes". at a time when enlargement of the union is a priority – and we have large-scale pre-accession aid programmes to assist this process – it is essential that we have the right number of staff with the right qualifications delivering and monitoring this assistance. the commission obviously recognises the priority of reforming external assistance management, as we have seen over the last year or so. but according to some estimates, there is a shortfall of something like 1 254 posts dealing with priority policy areas. the commission does not require more generalists and diplomats in its delegation, it needs competent managers, particularly those with expertise in tendering, contracting and, above all, project implementation; personnel with business experience perhaps. i wonder if the commission's recruitment and retirement procedures reflect this priority? the draft council regulation on the early retirement of some 600 officials is under consideration at the moment. i would like to know what steps the commission is taking to recruit the right sort of people to replace those officials who will be retiring early.
commission. – may i first pay a very warm tribute to the high quality of the work done by the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy and in particular by the rapporteur mr galeote quecedo who has once again done an excellent job. we should not forget the important contribution of the committee on budgets, with the ever-wise mr bourlanges as rapporteur, the opinion of the committee on budgetary control – i have enjoyed discussing these matters with mr blak – and not least the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation drafted by mrs junker. all these documents are also timely as the commission is now finalising its communication to parliament on further developments of the external service as a follow-up to the one we presented last july. i can assure parliament that the recommendations made in the report are extremely important for the commission. i also take them as an encouraging sign that parliament shares our ambition to make the external service an even more effective instrument of our external policy. we will, of course, continue to report regularly to parliament on the progress we make. let me offer a number of observations. first, this parliament stresses its wish to clarify its relations with the external delegations. the house may remember that this point was already raised when we discussed mr galeote quecedo's report on a common community diplomacy last september. i assured this house that although delegations are formally delegations of the commission, we have made it absolutely clear that they should regard themselves as serving parliament, the high representative and the other community institutions as well. in response to some of the points that were made during the debate, of course it is the case that our delegations and the embassies of member states have to coordinate their activities far more successfully. this is something that we have debated in the council. the delegations should indeed help to arrange programmes for visiting parliamentary delegations and committees. i also agree that it would be useful for heads of delegations to appear occasionally before the committee on foreign affairs and other committees of parliament when they are back in brussels to report on recent developments in their host countries and the development of european union policy and programmes there. a second major concern of this parliament is the so-called deconcentration of our operational activities. that, as the house knows, is jargon for devolving authority and responsibility where it belongs, to the people in the field. parliament will remember that this move to more deconcentration was an explicit commitment of the commission in its communication of may last year on the external assistance reform, reiterated in the july communication on the external service. we are now in the middle of the first wave of the deconcentration exercise. deconcentration concepts have been established for each major programme. staff requirements have been assessed for each delegation. officials are in the process of being selected and trained. last, but not least, accounting and management systems are being interconnected between headquarters and the delegations concerned. more then 20 delegations will be strengthened this year, another 30 or so next year and the remaining ones in 2003 and 2004. i will, of course, report to this house in more detail on deconcentration later in the year, but generally speaking the work is on schedule. there is one point that i want to emphasise very strongly. there is nothing whatsoever to be said for deconcentration while retaining a collection of mothers-in-law in brussels. if one is going to deconcentrate, then that means management of programmes on the ground. it does not mean many people second-guessing the people on the ground back in brussels. the problem of double emploi, the problem of whether or not we are really going to deconcentrate, is one i feel very strongly about. as far as i am concerned and as far as the board of europeaid is concerned, it is imperative to ensure that among our performance indicators there is one which gives us an indication of progress made in moving all the management of projects into the delegations, where it should be. we have seen, as somebody pointed out in the debate, the success of deconcentration in sarajevo and i want to see that success replicated elsewhere, but deconcentration is not just a question of numbers and procedures. to be successful it requires a real change of administrative culture in the external services of the commission, at headquarters and in delegations. in this respect, the rapporteur's insistence on the need to improve and develop our training programmes is very opportune. although i am the first to admit that there is still room for improvement in this area, serious efforts have been made and will be continued. i had the opportunity to take a look at the training programme for our external staff and i was very impressed by it. it covers not only policy areas such as trade and cfsp, but also practical day-to-day topics and modern management techniques. it does, of course, need to include all the subjects which are loosely described as gender mainstreaming, to which the honourable member referred in the debate. in parallel, the europeaid cooperation office has set up a very ambitious training programme specifically for the deconcentration exercise. parliament may also be interested to know that the first pilot session of the european diplomatic programme, which is a common training programme for european diplomats sponsored jointly by the member states and the commission, has recently been assessed and deemed to be successful. the second session is starting this autumn. this initiative may not be based precisely on the model of a college of european diplomacy, which the mr galeote espoused in his report last autumn; but it is a sensible step forward. i am also aware that the house is expecting to be fully informed by the commission on the redeployment of human resources, regionalisation of the network and the opening or closing of delegations – a point which i want to return at the end of my remarks. as these points still have to be decided by the college, i will merely say to the house that the recommendations made in the reports now under discussion will be carefully examined and analysed. finally, let me comment on the proposed action plan. some of its points, such as the proposal that starting in june of this year each head of delegation signs an annual declaration that adequate internal controls have been put in place, will be considered in the follow-up to the recent discharge resolution. the house should be aware that heads of delegation already have to sign the new charter of authorising officers, which sets out the tasks entrusted to them, their obligations and their responsibilities. other points the house makes concerning, for example, mission statements, redeployment, new delegations, monitoring and evaluation will be tackled in the communication on the development of the external service, which we will be bringing forward shortly. i hope the message is clear. we take the reform and development of the external service very seriously. i have said since i took up office that i want to see the emergence of a modern, effective and streamlined service, working as an integral part of the external relations structures of the commission, and at the service of all the institutions of the union. this is still my objective, shared by my colleagues and by the senior management in the external relations services of the commission. but it is a long haul. it must build on the trust and motivation of the staff, many of them working in difficult conditions far away from their colleagues at headquarters. it requires careful planning, training and not least funding. i trust that we can count on parliament's support and understanding in the work still ahead of us. one or two honourable members asked us not to be short of ambition, to be more ambitious in what we do. i just want to make one very obvious point to parliament, which may be a little prosaic. ambition depends on two things. first of all, ambition depends on having the money to actually implement your ambitions. secondly, ambition depends on being prepared to take tough political decisions in order to achieve your ambitions. one of my ambitions, and this may be regarded by some as an eccentricity, is to try to ensure that the ambitions in the area for which i am responsible are matched by the funds that we actually have to spend on them. i also want to see us being prepared to take the tough political decisions that are required to modernise our external service. but with great respect to the house, it is no good the house on one side telling me that we can never close a delegation; then on the other side people tell us that we should open new delegations and the whole house agreeing that there should be a limit on the number of delegations we can have. in the past parliament has insisted that there should be a ceiling on the number of delegations. i do not object to that, provided that if we have to close some delegations in order to open others, we have the understanding and support of the house. but if we are to be ambitious, as i would like to be, there has to be an understanding between the commission and parliament as well as between the commission and the council. we have to be absolutely open about any tough decisions we have to make. then all of us together have to share in taking the political responsibility for those decisions. please do not let us get into a situation in which everybody wants to be ambitious but nobody is actually prepared to spend the money to be ambitious or to take the necessary political decisions. i am looking forward to this debate and to parliament's understanding as we try together to create the sort of external service which the european union deserves.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
- the agenda calls for the communication of the communication on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a scheme of generalised preferences for the period 2002-04.
commission - mr president, the commission has just - and when i say 'just' it is only ten minutes ago - approved the proposal for a scheme of generalised preferences for the period 2002-2004; the commission has also decided to refer the matter to parliament. i am therefore pleased to be able to comment briefly on it and to put it in the context of the twofold perspective of the common commercial policy on the one hand and the european union's strategy for sustainable development and the fight against poverty on the other. the community's system of generalised preferences (gsp) is at the intersection of these two major union policies. those of you who are familiar with this matter know that it is an exclusively tariff instrument which was born some thirty years ago, from an initiative of the european community of that time within unctad, which was intended to lower customs duties on industrial exports from developing countries, since its primary reason for being was the industrialization of the third world. at that time, high tariffs were the main barrier to trade - although things have changed somewhat since then, as the average level of tariffs has fallen. on the other hand, it is rather the non-tariff barriers which have gained relative importance and we are trying to deal with this issue under the heading of non-tariff measures by giving a number of countries the financial means to enable them to improve their institutional capacity and by concluding ad hoc technical agreements with them, such as mutual recognition agreements, or agreements in the veterinary or phytosanitary field. but we must not forget that some tariff barriers remain significant today. let me give you a few examples. in the textile and agricultural sectors developing countries often have high comparative advantages, and we maintain tariff protection. in the primary processing sector, there is still a combination of zero duties on imported raw materials and significant duties on processed products, which correspond to the use of these raw materials; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's farmers are not forced to pay the price of their products. and then we have some tariff peaks which, despite the reductions we have made - more in other countries than in the united states, for example - are still significant in some cases. what the commission is proposing today is an update of the gsp to address three concerns. firstly, to compensate for the erosion of the preferential tariff margins caused by the fall in average tariff levels. the second is to simplify the system of modulation of tariffs according to the level of sensitivity of the products. we have removed categories. there used to be four categories; there are now only two. it's simpler, less complex; this will facilitate the work of operators and customs officials and will thus increase the actual rate of gsp utilisation. and the third concern is that of graduating, that is to say, dealing with cases where we withdraw the benefit of the gsp from high-gdp countries for products for which their competitiveness is demonstrated by the relative level of their market share. we believe that in these circumstances these countries can do without gsp for these products, in which case graduation opens up new opportunities for exports from other developing countries which are less competitive and therefore gives them a potential advantage in terms of development and poverty reduction. we have updated the gsp to try to find a balance between, on the one hand, the need to send a new positive signal to the developing countries, to show them our determination to meet their expectations in terms of market access - this after the 'everything but arms' initiative, hence the idea of reconstituting the preferential margins - and, on the other hand, the tactical concern to keep, for the multilateral negotiation of the round, additional possibilities of market access. let us agree that developing countries generally and rightly recognize the special value of a concession made in a multilateral framework as opposed to a unilateral preference. the former is secure and stable, the latter remains precarious. if we look briefly at our various gsp schemes, there are four: the general scheme, which applies to the countries of asia and latin america, the only continents not to benefit from bilateral preferential advantages such as those reserved for the acp and mediterranean countries. in this area we are respecting the general economy, we are restoring the preferential margins, we are simplifying modulation and we are applying the normal graduation. secondly, the system for the least developed countries, which has been radically improved by 'everything but arms' and is not affected by this proposal. thirdly, the so-called 'social and environmental incentive' scheme, which provides additional tariff reductions to countries which effectively implement the framework conventions of the international labour organisation and which commit themselves to sustainable management of the tropical forest. these additional tariff reductions are reinforced in the commission's proposal to remedy their current weakness, in which case we are doubling the margin in our proposal, preferably in line with social and environmental commitments. fourth and last regime: the drug regime for the andean pact countries and the central american countries. we are keeping this regime as it is and extending it for a significant period of three years, until 2004. this system deserves your particular attention, firstly because it is part of the union's great ambition towards latin america and the alliance, in a way, which unites us with this continent; the european union is also making its main contribution to the fight against drugs, in which these countries are both the actors and the protagonists. i think we should look at the drug problem in these countries as more of a symptom than a cause of the general underdevelopment of the region. this 'drug' scheme is a very generous one, very similar to the 'everything but arms' scheme, since it is equivalent to granting access to the community market at 'zero' duty for the most significant industrial and agricultural products of these middle-income countries. when i say average income, i mean that the gdp per capita in current dollars is about 1,100 dollars for bolivia, 4,600 dollars for venezuela, and so well above the 700 dollars per capita of the least developed countries. the first objective of this 'drug' regime is not to replace directly illicit coca cultivation but to promote development itself, job creation and the diversification of industrial and agricultural activities, in which these countries are lagging behind in a worrying way, which in our view is a factor conducive to the expansion of drug production and trafficking. we believe that the response to these countries is to promote foreign direct investment, particularly european investment, to eradicate corruption and to fight for social justice, in line with the privileged access to the european market which we are giving them. we want these countries to make more meaningful use of our gsp, by implementing more effective sustainable development strategies, so as to tackle the root causes of the economic problems, drugs and violence. it is the concept of sustainable development, applied in this case, in that it refers to job-creating growth, to social progress, which requires the effective implementation of the ilo framework conventions and to environmental protection, of which the sustainable management of the tropical forest is a decisive aspect in this region. we therefore propose that our andean partners be closely monitored in their efforts to diversify their exports, to combat drugs and to promote these social and environmental aspects. some have already expressed some concern about the parallel that the commission draws between the generosity of the drug regime and the concern to assess the economic, social and environmental performance of partner countries. it must be said that we would find it difficult to justify otherwise the specific nature of the special regime for latin america, to which we are linked by a very ambitious political and economic partnership, in comparison with other countries in the world, and in particular with asian countries, whose level of development is comparable, and which are also faced with the fight against drugs and do not benefit from this 'drug' regime. how else can we justify this difference if we do not combine these extraordinary tariff preferences with implementing standards which only countries which share our european values of sustainable development to such a degree are willing to subscribe to? in addition to these merits of encouraging good policies, the monitoring by the commission and the dialogue with each country to which it must lead are for us the counterpart that allows the drug regime to escape being called into question, or even before a wto panel, on the grounds of unjustified discrimination between countries benefiting from the community gsp. it is not therefore an unfair or offensive interference in the internal affairs of these countries. on the contrary, we see this monitoring as a kind of protective lightning rod against complaints by other developing countries to the wto. we hope that in doha our latin american partners will work closely with us to advance this cause of bilateral liberalization and standardization which should consolidate and not threaten this drug regime so peculiar to the andean pact and central america. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the 'everything but arms' initiative, this proposal for a new community gsp that we are making on the eve of doha confirms the priority that the union intends to give, through the new round, to the integration of developing countries into the world economy, with a view to more equitable and more sustainable development, and the commission needs your support in order to carry out this ambitious undertaking.
commission. - i shall reply briefly to mr rübig on two points. the first concerns the nature of the remaining barriers to imports. there are basically two categories of barriers, customs barriers, whether tariff or quantitative, and more technical barriers. as regards tariff or quantitative barriers, with 'everything but arms' and with the strengthening of the gsp that we are putting on the table, i consider that the access of developing countries to our market, particularly through modern electronic means, is satisfactory. the second is the question of customs procedures, and in particular the implementation of controls which are based on the rules of origin. in so far as we give specific customs advantages in relation to a most favoured nation clause, we cannot ignore the existence of rules of origin and therefore of certificates which require customs procedures. so on the one hand, we're dealing with rates. on the other hand, because we deal with tariffs, we need rules of origin and therefore customs procedures, and so customs procedures will remain. however, i should like to point out that these customs procedures apply with deductions in terms of the value of the consignments that part of what is transferred electronically does not enter the net. in other words, if you are below a certain number of franchises, electronic export can be done without any customs procedures. i think that, in addition, a number of formalities should be maintained for the time being, unless we encounter serious and dangerous problems with the rules of origin.
mr president, i would like to thank mr lamy for his presentation. i have a few questions. i was very glad to hear what you said about tariff escalation. could say a little more about the specific actions that will be undertaken within this new gsp scheme and the particular margins that might be anticipated on that particular issue? secondly, regarding enhanced gsp that will, hopefully, provide an incentive for improved social and environmental performance, could you say how successful the existing scheme has been, and whether you think a doubling is going to be enough? a doubling sounds very good, but we are starting from an extremely low base. one can always say it is never enough but do you seriously think you have any indications that this is going to attract more people into the scheme than before? i also have a question about the longer term. given as you say that the value of gsp is being eroded all the time because of the lowering of tariffs overall, what other mechanisms would you foresee in order to try to strengthen social and environmental performance among different developing countries? the gsp, or its worth, is not going to be there for ever, as tariffs go down across the board. finally, could you say little more about human rights violations as a whole? the enhanced gsp system obviously works as a system of incentives. have you had any thoughts about whether it might be necessary to reform the gsp, so that those who are perpetrating human rights violations, colombia in particular, are actually excluded from the scheme across the board?
commission. - i shall reply to mrs lucas on the various points she has raised. as regards the problems of tariff escalation, to the extent that we increase the margin of preference, we reduce the difference due to tariff escalation, but, and i am quite clear on this, we do not fundamentally change the system of tariff escalation. there will be zero duty on certain products. the tariff escalation is taking place, but its impact is lessened by the margin of preference we offer. as regards the system of generalised preferences and, say, their incentive aspect in the social and environmental fields, if the commission has found it useful to go further, that is to say to double the preference it was granting, it is because it shares, i believe, the implicit meaning of your question, namely that the system does not give rise for the moment to many concrete actions. in the social field, we are innovating in the proposal that is being put forward, in that we are now referring to the international labour organisation for the certification of the benefits we give. this is an innovation which i would like to draw to your attention and which has the dual effect of, on the one hand, making the diagnosis made more objective, if i may say so, and, on the other hand, giving the international labour organisation a greater profile in this international social governance, which is, as you know, one of our objectives. we are also innovating in the field of drugs, since we are providing for 'drug-specific' monitoring in the countries benefiting from the preferential system, in terms of social and environmental conditions: in terms of social conditions, by reference to the ilo framework conventions; in terms of environmental conditions, in the context of the management of the tropical forest, which happens to coincide roughly with the region in question. so from this point of view, the conditionality by monitoring is increased and i think that i have tried in this proposal to think, as you have done, of certain specific cases where what was happening on the ground in the field of social rights was not necessarily in line with the spirit of the agreements between the union and these countries. the last point in terms of preferences, or social or environmental performance: do we have any other means? as you know, we have made a decision in principle not to switch to sanctions and to remain on the side of incentives in taking account of these social and environmental issues. so we increase this incentive, we clarify it, we objectify it by reference to a number of standards, but we do not switch to sanctions. what we have unilaterally and bilaterally, where we have greater room for manoeuvre, must be translated, perhaps in a somewhat more muted form, in the framework of the multilateral negotiations which are being prepared for doha, and you know the union's mandate on this point. we are obliged, given that the wto is a multilateral institution, to make compromises in this respect within the wto which we do not necessarily have to make in a bilateral negotiation and which we do not have to make at all since they are unilateral measures. finally, we deal with problems of human rights violations on the basis of specific ilo conventions, in particular the convention on forced labour and slavery. this proposal includes temporary withdrawal in the event of slavery or forced labor. this was already the case with the previous proposal. we also have the violation of the basic social standards which are the subject of the five ilo core conventions. so on this point we have added to what has been done so far and which, as you know, has been applied in the case of burma.
commission - i will answer the three questions of mr kreissl-dörfler. firstly, the use of social or environmental incentive clauses today. we have four requests under the social incentive clause today: moldova, ukraine, georgia and russia. of these four requests, one - which must be moldova, if i remember correctly - has already been accepted. the others are undergoing training. this list is not very long, it is even short, if we consider the countries which could theoretically be interested in it. why isn't it longer? i think there are two reasons for this: the first is a matter of principle: a number of developing countries do not want, in principle, to link commercial advantage with respect for social standards. this position is not unanimous. it is not as firm in all countries. the spectrum is relatively wide, but this can be a problem. we know that, it's their right, it's their design, they're sovereign. we simply feel that by increasing the margin and the interest that there may be for them to 'match' these criteria, we may be able to move a number of countries that are hesitant and divided between economic interests and principled interests, in what we consider to be the right direction. secondly, the north american free trade area. the current negotiations are between the 34 member countries of the americas. they have been going on for almost five years and are probably going to go on for another five years. in the short term, this is not a problem and it does not affect the relative advantage we give to the countries of the region under the drug regime, whether it is central america or andean america and the andean pact countries. we are, in a sense, each one of us contributing, the united states of america in various forms, including credits or transactions, we are giving it in commercial form. everyone has his own way of doing things and i think that, from this point of view, the negotiation of the north-south america free trade area will not change much in the short term. in the medium or long term, everything will depend on the level of tariff preference they achieve and this is still unknown. the last question is the prospects for qatar. as you are probably aware, as one of the experts on this subject, we are working very hard with a number of developing countries to improve their perception of their interest in starting a round of multilateral negotiations in qatar. this is done gradually under fairly good conditions. if i believe, for example, the results of the apec trade ministers' meeting on this issue, which brought together the pacific rim countries last week, we can see progress on this issue. we are also working very hard with the new administration of the united states of america to try to ensure that the summit between the united states and the european union, which will take place next thursday morning in gothenburg, before the european council, can give a signal on this point which will help to show that the movement is now under way.
- thank you, chief. we are all aware that you have an extremely important role to play in the community at this time. the debate is closed.
the council. i would like to emphasise that i share staes' concern about the reports of irregularities within europol. as late as today's newspapers we can read of incidents and arrests for alleged irregularities. the problems that staes raises are very real. i would point out again, however, that it is the commission's responsibility to deal with these issues. i am also convinced that europol, which is the sorting office of the council (justice and home affairs), has rules on auditing and accounts, etc., which are designed in such a way that the type of errors and irregularities mentioned by mr staes can be detected quickly. i am grateful to him for raising this important issue and i regret that as president of the council i cannot go into more detail, as it is outside the council's competence. i hope, however, that we will work together to ensure that we do not hear about this type of incident in the future.
mr president-in-office, most of us can admire the tactics and future tasks to be conducted by europol as an organisation. we all know that it is a very necessary organisation. you identified a new structure for europol in the future. are there any plans to bring europol under democratic control?
the council. i spoke this morning with the swedish deputy prime minister, hjelm-wallén, who is referred to in the question. she is very honoured to have become a stick in the debate on the tobin tax, but she has asked me to point out that the description given by the honourable members of her statement of 23 march is not quite complete. she said exactly what i believe the council has said on previous occasions, namely that it is easy to share many of the fundamental values underlying the tobin tax proposal, but it is also necessary to see the many practical difficulties that exist in implementing this proposal. i note that the feasibility studies requested have been carried out by many independent institutions. i am convinced that it will therefore be possible to continue to discuss this matter in a factual manner. as regards the formalities within the union, i refer to my earlier reply.
mr president, i am as disappointed as my colleagues at the response. it was always possible for the swedish presidency itself to put the item on the agenda. it seems to me to be another example of politicians being out of touch with ordinary people, who are well aware of the enormous support for such a tax. although perhaps unfeasible, it enjoys enormous support, and i find the resistance of the council and the commission to discussion of this tax staggering. if it could be implemented it would end the evils of global speculation that destroy so many jobs, communities and families, while promoting a good in the form of large amounts of aid and assistance to the third world. perhaps the president-in-office could respond to my concern and tell me why the council is so afraid of commissioning a study itself or of encouraging the commission to do so? at least we would have an answer if we could say that we had an independent study and it will not work. i suspect that would not come up with such a result but, nevertheless, can i ask you whether you will look into the possibility of commissioning a study or encouraging the commission itself to study the tobin-type taxes, so as to see whether they are feasible and under what conditions they could work?
the council. the council has not had the opportunity to discuss concretely a proposal for an international peace commission. i cannot therefore answer your question on behalf of the council at this stage. however, let me stress that i believe that innovative ideas are needed to break the lock-in in the conflict i have tried to describe in my reply. as i said, the council has not taken a position on whether an international peace commission could be such a solution, but i can promise to bring the idea to the council for further discussion. i would like to stress that there is a deep consensus in the council so far that the most effective way for the union to contribute to a more reasonable situation in afghanistan is to support wholeheartedly the efforts of the un. the union's approach must be to contribute to international coordination. in many cases the union can and should act alone, but in a situation such as afghanistan, coordination with other like-minded actors is required, and the un is the best framework. i therefore believe that we should concentrate our efforts on this particular context.
the council. my answer will be brief at first. the council has neither discussed nor taken a position on the issues raised by mr sacrédeus in his question and is therefore unable to answer it.
the council. i just want to clarify what i'm sure sacrédeus knows. it was not the council that took part in decisions on measures against austria, but decisions taken by the 14 heads of state or government on an ad hoc basis. these decisions concerned only bilateral exchanges and therefore excluded eu cooperation. let me just point out that in the treaty of nice - which we all know has not yet been ratified - we now have a draft legal framework, which we did not have before, in article 7 which is intended to apply in situations of the kind we had in austria. if anyone wants to point out a situation such as that described by sacrédeus, i assume that the mechanisms provided for in article 7 will be used. the treaty has not yet been ratified, but there may still be opportunities to invoke this article if someone wants to raise the question. the presidency has not yet received any such request.
the council. the council has not at all discussed the hypothetical question raised by the honourable member. i cannot therefore give an answer on behalf of the council.
the council. the council's activities in preparation for the introduction of the euro bear witness, we hope, to its determination to protect euro banknotes and coins effectively against counterfeiting. i would remind you that council regulation (ec) no 974/98 provides for the introduction of the euro as from 1 january 2002 and that the participating member states are obliged to ensure that there are appropriate penalties for counterfeiting euro banknotes and coins. since then, on 29 may 2000, the council adopted a framework decision on strengthening protection against counterfeiting in connection with the introduction of the euro by means of criminal and other sanctions. to complement and strengthen this, particularly in the area of combating counterfeiting of the euro by means of close cooperation between the authorities of the member states, the european central bank, the national central banks, europol and, in future, eurojust, the french government presented on 22 december 2000 a draft decision on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. as the honourable member knows, parliament delivered its opinion on this draft on 3 may 2001. the draft, which is therefore still being approved, is linked to the draft council regulation laying down the measures necessary for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting and to the draft council regulation extending the scope of this regulation. although all these regulations were adopted, parliament delivered its opinion on 3 may 2001. at its meeting on 29 may 2001, the council agreed to split the draft decision presented last year into a draft council decision and a draft framework decision. the european parliament will be asked to deliver an opinion on these two drafts. at the same time, the council also agreed on conclusions on europol's role in protecting the euro, including by providing the member states with the assistance necessary to enable them to fulfil their task of preventing and combating counterfeiting of the euro. as regards money laundering, in previous replies to parliament the council has set out in detail its view of the increased risk of money laundering with the introduction of the single currency and the measures taken by the council to reduce this risk. these measures, along with increased attention by national authorities and financial institutions, are crucial to reduce the risk of money laundering when the euro is introduced.
mr president, we have a long catalogue of action by the council and the commission to deal with the problem of counterfeiting of the euro. according to a report in the financial times on 22 may, europol apparently thinks that these measures are still inadequate. one of the particular concerns is the very high value of the 500-euro note, which is in danger of making the euro the currency of choice for counterfeiters and money launderers, because it is substantially higher in value than any other note in regular circulation in the united states, japan or the united kingdom. has the council not considered the possibility of delaying the issuing of the 500-euro note because, with the introduction of the euro, there will be a particularly dangerous window of opportunity for counterfeiters potentially to have a field day, as millions of people around the world will never have seen these notes before. substantial counterfeiting will engender the severe risk of global damage to the whole credibility of, and confidence in, the euro.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for the assistance i have received from him and his staff. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, especially mr harbour, whom i again have had the privilege of working with; we work well together. as many members will realise, this is the second phase in the reform of the commission, a reform which this whole house has endorsed previously. if we believe in the reform process, we must endorse this second phase, which concerns the introduction, on a one-off basis, of the early retirement scheme for officials within the commission. a proper retirement scheme will apply at a later date, but this particular one is on a one-off basis. if we believe in enlargement to accommodate the officials from accession countries, we must reduce the number of existing officials and do so within the existing budget. also, if we believe in a modern, responsive, technically competent commission, then we must look to bring in new blood to replace some of those officials who have not adapted or coped with the new technology. all this adds up to some people taking early retirement and to allowing new people and new blood in. but it also adds up to some of us within this house having to take decisions, which previously were not palatable. we have, however, to live in the real world and therefore we must take those decisions. turning now to the amendments, that i will be supporting all the amendments except for two submitted by mr ferber. initially i was reluctant to put my name to some of the amendments, as i was concerned that the inclusion of the other institutions might delay the implementation of the early retirement scheme. however, my fears have proved unfounded and i am hopeful that the scheme will be implemented in the second half of this year. it will also allow the other institutions to go ahead with implementing their own scheme. turning to the two amendments submitted by mr ferber, first of all they have come in rather late in the day. secondly, they were never raised or discussed within the committee. apart from all that, i see these amendments as being submitted by a mean, narrow-minded individual who wants to put a spanner in the works. this is the only way i can really describe it. i cannot accept such a petty attempt to derail this whole process and i hope parliament cannot accept such a petty attempt to derail the reform process of the commission. therefore i would ask the house to support this report as it stands.
madam president, i would like to thank bill miller for a very comprehensive and thorough piece of work. it is a pleasure to see our roles reversed, since he shadowed me on the report on the overall strategy for the human resource reforms that this house approved at the end of last year. together we have gathered the experience on what are absolutely crucial issues, both for the future of the commission and, indeed, for the future of the european union as a whole. it is good, from the point of view of the legal affairs committee, that we are now getting on with the task of making the crucial reforms to the staff regulations that will be needed to implement these reforms. we hope to carry them out thoroughly and quickly, as commissioner kinnock forwards them to us. i very much echo what bill miller said about the importance of this measure as a one-off package. it does need to be seen in that context. it is encouraging that the commission realises that this crucial step towards an entirely new human resource policy, means creating a whole new culture where people are promoted on merit, where we have a linear grading structure, where there is not an artificial ceiling for promotion, where there is much more delegated accountability. this is part of that transitional phase and it is encouraging that the commission wants to tackle this seriously. the question we have asked in our committee, and the committee on budgetary control and the committee on budgets have also looked at this, is whether this is the right package. it is clearly a very generous package, but at the same time it has to be a powerful package because otherwise it will not work. the worst thing we could possibly do is make an offer which nobody takes up. that would frustrate what the commission is trying to do. in that context i can tell mr miller that i am not supporting the two late amendments. they will not be on the epp voting list. we have a consensus on that. so we believe this is the right package, but i commend the way that bill miller has sought to tighten up some aspects, particularly those relating to commission officials who may take the retirement package and then go on to take up other jobs. clearly it is not reasonable that they should effectively be rewarded twice at the european taxpayers' expense. i hope the commission will accept those sensible provisions that bill miller has put into the report. finally, i wish again to support the amendments that extend the application of this scheme to both the european parliament and the political groups. that is a recognition of our dual role. we must not just hold the commission to account for the progress of these reforms, but also look at our own management policies within this institution. it is quite clear that we have to address exactly the same issues. this is a once-off package that is not setting a precedent for the future reform of pensions policy. you will recall that in my report i attached great importance to the need to reform the standing pensions policy to introduce a permanent early retirement scheme. but this package is disconnected from that, and quite rightly so. this is a very important step in the reform of the commission and i am pleased to give it, on behalf of my group, our full support.
rapporteur. – madam president, it gives me great pleasure tonight to be able to present my report on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market to the house on universal services and users rights relating to electronic communications. this is a further element in what is a most crucial package of legislation that is now being considered by parliament to create a single regulatory framework for electronic communications. it is so important for the future of the european economy as a whole that we get this package right. it has been a privilege for me to have been able to work for the first time in my parliamentary career here on a major codecision text like this. this is a complex text and the procedure for review has also been complex. i would like particularly to thank the rapporteurs of the three committees who provided me with opinions, mr papayannakis, mr aparicio sánchez and particularly mr caudron, where we worked together under the hughes procedure and where the amendments that were passed by the committee on industry were received by my committee. we did not vote on any of them, they were accepted by us in our report. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from the various committees i worked with for providing me with so much support. indeed, the final text before us has been the result of a lot of work by many people. i am not proposing to accept any further amendments to the text, even though a number have come in rather late in the day from the socialist group. i believe we have reached a good agreement on the text and i am not proposing to support any additional amendments in the vote tomorrow. i should like to say a few things about the text itself. it is a very comprehensive text because it contains four distinct measures. there are the provisions relating to universal service itself, how it should be delivered, how it should be funded in an open and transparent way that does not distort the market place and a whole series of measures on users' rights, including some important new measures reflecting the new technology which is coming our way. it has a number of crucial measures related to market intervention and the ability of member states to intervene very directly in the market place, and to set retail pricing for example. finally, it also has some measures related to digital television, particularly a package of obligations related to "must carry" provisions for public service broadcasts. i do not have time this evening to go through all of those in detail but i would like to observe that i have specifically asked the commission in the text that we will receive at second reading to mark out more clearly those four aspects of the text. at the moment it is quite complex, particularly the market intervention measures which are regarded as transitory measures by the commission, a view that i share. they are there for the time in which the market is still being directly regulated, but this whole package envisages a time when the entire market will operate under normal competition aspects. those transitory measures should be clearly identified because hopefully we will not need them in a few years' time. my approach in considering this text has been to give strong support to the strategy behind the directive. the commission has not sought to enhance significantly the scope of the universal service remit and that is absolutely right. in my work i have sought to clarify the text, to improve it in some aspects, but to be very selective about new provisions. in the area of users' rights it has been important to strike the right balance between a text that will be agreed centrally at european union level and detailed work that should be done in the member states. believe me, colleagues, i have had no shortage of people wanting to complicate this text, wanting to add extra provisions. i believe i have the balance right, particularly in the light of the fact that these provisions will apply to the applicant countries, where the technological base from which they start will be much lower than that envisaged at the moment. i am confident that the proposals i put before you tonight are balanced and will stand the test of time. they anticipate technical development. they will be good for consumers because they sustain and develop competition. they provide essential rights for consumers but they will allow a sector that is changing very fast to thrive and develop in the future without unnecessary and complex interference.
madam president, it is very late, there are very few of us here and i guess all of us are very tired this evening, but actually we are striking a blow in this debate for a citizens' europe. in the report by mrs fourtou, whom i congratulate, the committee on petitions is for the first time bringing a specific petition to the floor of the european parliament. i also congratulate mr miller, who gave a great deal of support to the petitioners on this particular item. we have demonstrated that by petitioning citizens can get an item debated on the floor of the european parliament and that the commission will come to parliament, as indeed it came to the petitions committee. i thank commissioner liikanen for the initiatives that he has put forward. a scientific study was inaugurated under stoa, parliament's assessment panel. all this was achieved by the free opportunity that all citizens have across europe to bring to their concerns before this european parliament. the outcome of this report is a good compromise and one which i hope will command universal support across the house tomorrow. having said that, it is important to remember that while some citizens come here with their particular concerns, there will be many others who perhaps have a different point of view. recently a very well-known celebrated tv presenter in the united kingdom said to me: 'always remember that there are people who need breast implants'. this lady herself had to have a mastectomy for preventative cancer reasons and she has had a very successful implant. so she said: 'do not stop it; do make sure, however, that if there are to be implants, they are safe.' in the proposals from the women's rights committee, the environment committee and the commission, we have a compromise that i am sure we can work with and will be good for europe and for a citizens' europe.
mr president, over seven years ago a woman walked into my office in glasgow. she had been turned away by a wide variety of authorities – elected members and health authorities. nobody would listen to her. they treated her somewhat as an eccentric. i sat down with her and over a period of about three-and-half hours she convinced me that there was a problem with the whole question of silicone and silicone implants. the result of that conversation, over seven years ago, is that i am standing here tonight talking about it – not on behalf of mr miller, but on behalf of that woman and the hundreds of thousands of other women who have since joined together in a vast network, not just in europe but throughout the world, to petition against the use of unsafe silicone implants. it is a testament to the citizens of europe that they can petition this parliament and actually get heard. this is the first time that i can remember an ordinary citizen raising an issue which has reached the floor of this parliament. i congratulate parliament and the petitions committee. as i said, this was not only down to mr miller, though i have pursued it through parliament. this has been down to the women themselves who have bravely fought against scorn and ridicule from a variety of sources and who have continued fighting their campaign against silicone implants. that campaign has continued for years and they are still fighting. many of them believe that there should be a complete ban. however, most of them recognise that at the moment there is not enough evidence to ban silicone implants so they are happy to settle, at this point in time, for stronger rules and regulations governing this whole question. regarding a couple of points in the report, i am glad to see the call for a ban on implants anyone under the age of 18 for cosmetic purposes. when we talk about the quality of the implants we also have to talk about the safety of the implants. i cannot stress that too strongly. we talk about the information to prospective clients undergoing this operation. that information has to be available from independent sources. it is not good enough for that information to come from the surgeon carrying out the operation. we also talk about registration. we have to know the number of operations taking place. we have to know the clinics that are taking these people in. we have to know what surgeons are carrying them out. until we do so we will not fully realise the scale of this problem. this is a tribute to parliament, but moreover, this is a tribute to the thousands of women who have been fighting for years. it has finally been recognised that there is a problem.
madam president, i wish to express thanks to you, the rapporteur and my scottish colleague, bill miller, for bringing matter before the petitions committee. the issue of silicone gel breast implants is a sensitive one and this debate, as many have said this evening, is long overdue. that is why we in the environment committee wanted to see access for all patients to free comprehensive information drawn up by independent experts, clear, bold health warnings in advertising, and an end to the before-and-after-pictures frequently used in women's magazines. we in the environment committee believe that all breast implant operations should be recorded in the eu and that, as a result, manufacturers should supply only to surgeons who use such a register. the cost of breast implants should include precare, independent advice, alternatives, a cooling-off period and post-care. finally, there should be comprehensive national lists of registered private clinics and trained plastic surgeons. i am glad to see that he rapporteur has taken on much of the environment committee's opinion and i thank her for that.
mr president, president lincoln said you can fool some of the people all the time, all the people some of the time, but you cannot fool all the people all the time. what is currently happening in the aftermath of the irish vote on the nice treaty is unacceptable by any standards of western democracy. a member state, under the provisions of the treaty, has sounded out its people on the conclusion of treaty changes. they have for a number of reasons declined these changes. this result cannot be ignored, either on the basis of a lower-than-normal turnout – what price legitimacy? – or because some people feel that the only good referendum result is a positive one. as the eu moves towards enlargement, we must not suggest to countries waiting at the door of the european union that democracy and the rule of law can simply be overruled, by tacitly encouraging the irish government to hold another referendum sometime in the future. no tinkering around with additional protocols will convince the sceptical public to vote in favour of treaty changes which are difficult to explain and bring nothing of real benefit to improve the effective operation of the european union. there is only one way to reassure public opinion and maintain the vital goal of eu enlargement. the nice treaty must in time cease to exist. in these circumstances no treaty in these circumstances is better than a bad treaty. instead we now urgently need to hold a genuine, substantial debate about the future of the european union. the idea of a non-binding convention, to which other speakers have referred, is an idea whose time has now come. this process will only be successful, however, if all european citizens are involved and consulted on these essential issues. by the end of 2003 at the latest, the national parliaments should then be able to ratify either the relevant provisions of the nice treaty or those of the convention. should the european council not follow this course and be seen to be trampling on the democratic procedures in small member states, this will only serve to further alienate a european public which is genuinely in search of more information. europe and its institutions can only be built with the long-lasting support of its peoples.
rapporteur. – madam president, before we vote on article 26, colleagues have pointed out to me that the english wording of my amendment no 47, which i hope the house will adopt, is not entirely clear in other languages. therefore i should like to read out the english-language text, which refers to radio and television broadcasts. the text, for clarification, reads: "... in pursuit of a public service broadcasting remit". i emphasise the last word because that is intended to include both public service broadcasting and private sector broadcasters who work under a public service remit. i believe that is not clear in every language. i ask you to ensure that the final translation in other languages – assuming that my amendment is accepted – covers that point.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution because i believe that the problems of sustainable development and climate change are so important in the context of the gothenburg summit that the european parliament should be very explicit. however, i do object to certain aspects of this resolution. as regards paragraphs 35 and 36, i do not think that a military alliance based on the possession and threat of use of nuclear weapons can be a force for 'security and stability'. secondly, i am totally opposed to the proposals concerning the american missile defence system - a system which would be prohibited by the 1972 treaty on the limitation of missile defence systems and which would increase international tension. i am opposed to its development, with or without consultation of the european partners. nevertheless, we need a firm political direction on sustainable development and i hope that the encouragement given to the council to play this role will be a catalyst for progress at the international level. in addition, the decision to review the working method of parliament itself and to hold an annual debate on sustainable development is a significant step forward.
in writing. - madam president, i look forward to the outcome of the european summit in gothenburg. it marks the end of an impressive swedish presidency and i would like to congratulate my swedish colleagues. the heads of state or government meeting in gothenburg will focus on enlargement. the main challenge of this summit is to achieve progress in the enlargement negotiations. the challenge for europe in the 1980s was to build a single market. the challenge of the 1990s was to create a single currency. the challenge of the new millennium is to enlarge the european union in such a way as to ensure stability, peace and prosperity for all. enlargement is crucial if we are to increase trade, employment and prosperity for all, improve environmental standards and reduce transnational pollution, promote effective cooperation in the fight against crime and drug trafficking, strengthen the rights of minorities, and consolidate peace, democracy and stability in europe. this is an important message to convey to our fellow european citizens who should be aware of the benefits and consequences of enlargement. i hope very much that this summit will also make it possible to make significant progress in the field of the environment. environmental problems are a real priority for citizens throughout the union. we must make it a priority to limit climate change and to establish ourselves as a clear leader in global cooperation. we must also work together to achieve clear objectives in terms of using clean energy, using sustainable transport systems, eliminating threats to public health and improving our use of natural resources. if europe is to be truly a people's europe, we must 'green' our action and seek an innovative strategy for sustainable development. we must also inform the public about the most important challenge facing the european union and its citizens, namely enlargement. we have failed to tell them this story for too long and it is high time we did something about it. after all, the story is worth it.
in writing. - i fully support this report by my socialist colleague helena torres marques, which aims to reduce the administrative burden on businesses engaged in crossborder trade. it replaces 15 different national regulations on vat invoices with a single and simple regulation. this demonstrates once again europe's commitment to creating a prosperous environment for business and entrepreneurs across the eu. the different vat billing regulations in the member states often represent an obstacle for businesses, and particularly for smes. the proposal not only replaces national regulations with a single set of rules, but also covers electronic invoicing and provides for advanced electronic signature provisions. the standardisation of transaction procedures across europe will enable small businesses to trade with confidence, not just in britain but across the european single market. the single market is essential for employment in the north-west of britain. about 40% of the region's small and medium-sized enterprises have trade links with other eu member states. as members of the european single market, they will have access to some 370 million potential customers - almost six times as many as in britain. my labour colleagues and i are determined to ensure that british businesses benefit from the single market. by giving our businesses from bury to blackburn the confidence to position themselves in these markets, this measure will help achieve this and will have a positive effect on trade, growth and employment in the north west.
in writing. - the greens/efa group welcomes the report by mrs fourtou on silicone implants and sees it as a way of improving both access to information for people who want to use them and the monitoring of the potential impact of these implants on their health. another positive aspect of this report is that it comes directly from citizens' action in bringing the matter before the parliament's committee on petitions - a procedure open to everyone in the european union, to address concerns about european legislation, its application or the absence of legislation. the petitioners are people who are concerned, sometimes directly, about the adverse health effects of silicone implants. their moving request was heard by the committee, a study was commissioned and carried out through the stoa, and this report gives us the result. my group welcomes the recommendations for further and more specific research. we also welcome the recommendation that there should be a minimum age for this type of surgery. we are very concerned that many young women feel the need to have plastic surgery, in search of a perfect body, so that they think they can fit into society. it is society that should be willing to accept everyone, no matter what their size or shape. in a number of member states, cosmetic surgery, particularly in private institutions, needs to be better regulated. patients, on the other hand, must be able to obtain all the necessary information. the establishment of patient registries is an important proposal as it will facilitate scientific research and make it easier to identify women who may experience subsequent problems with a particular implant. i am confident that the commission's communication will take up the recommendations of the assembly.
rapporteur. – mr president, our ongoing work on working time goes back to the 1993 directive, which excluded approximately six million workers in total, some 5 million of whom were working in the various transport sectors. last year's overhaul of the directive brought all rail workers, non-mobile workers in the other transport sectors, offshore workers and doctors in training under the directive's scope. furthermore, separate agreements have been reached in the maritime and aviation sectors. this proposal on road transport thus seeks to close one of the last remaining gaps, but even so it will not cover all drivers. as it stands, it will only apply to workers covered by regulation no 3820/85 and will therefore leave out a number of categories of workers, including workers driving vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes, regular urban transport drivers, taxi drivers and drivers of vehicles carrying no more than nine passengers. amendment no 5, from the committee on employment and social affairs, seeks an early revision of the regulation in order to include these workers. even more serious, however, is the possibility left open in the common position, namely that the self-employed might be permanently excluded from this directive. the original 1993 directive applies to employees, but this proposal has two legal bases: article 137 covers occupational health and safety, while article 71 covers operational safety. it therefore applies to the self-employed, and rightly so. we cannot exclude the self-employed. if it is dangerous to a driver's health and safety, and to road safety more generally, for an employed driver to work long hours, is it not just as dangerous for a self-employed worker? the answer to that, of course, is that it must be. when a lorry fills your rear-view mirror, are you going to wonder whether that driver is employed and rested, or self-employed and potentially tired and dangerous? so inclusion of all drivers is important, both on occupational health and safety grounds and on operational safety grounds. but there is also a third important element: that of ensuring fair competition between the various modes of transport. the rail sector is currently covered by the 1993 directive, but road is not covered by anything approaching a similar regime. if we are serious about promoting a transfer of freight traffic from road to rail, with all of the environmental benefits that this can bring, then this too is a very important consideration. my proposed compromise on this point is the same as the commission's revised opinion following our first reading. in amendment no 4, i propose an extra three-year transition for the self-employed, and then their automatic inclusion. however, even this poses difficulties. even a temporary exclusion might open up the possibility of imaginative new forms of false self-employment and of collective arrangements being dismantled by unscrupulous employers. that is why the committee on employment and social affairs has also proposed a tighter definition of what a self-employed driver actually is in amendment no 10. those not meeting the criteria listed therein would be subject to the same rights and obligations under the directive as employees. these are some of the important points in the proposal, but others include the definitions of working time and stand-by duty. the common position is so vague on these issues that there is little point in trying to limit working time on that basis. we have, therefore, proposed a return to the definition in the commission's revised opinion in amendment no 6. in amendment no 15 we propose that the reference period for calculating the average 48-hour week be limited to arrangements set in place as a result of collective agreements. i proposed to the committee on employment and social affairs that a driver should receive prior notice of commencement of a period of availability 24 hours in advance. that did not get the support i would have liked in committee, and i would therefore recommend to the house that the compromise proposed by mrs lynne in amendment no 24 of 12 hours' prior notice should be supported. in amendment no 14 i propose that night work be limited to 8 hours with a possible temporary extension to 10 hours, so long as the 8-hour average is achieved over a reference period to be agreed after consultation with the social partners. the human being is not a nocturnal animal and research demonstrates that the risks of accidents to health and safety are highest as a result of night work. therefore, that is also an important point. in conclusion, the key element is that of the inclusion of the self-employed. i hope transport ministers will be persuaded to agree to it, otherwise this whole package might be rejected. they would be to blame if that were to occur, and i hope we can work together to make sure that we put this piece of the jigsaw puzzle in place as soon as possible. (applause)
mr president, mrs smet referred to the fact that a majority in the ppe-de group were in favour of including the self-employed. i am sure that is true. but i am sure she would also agree that there is a significant minority who take a completely opposite view. this morning i chaired a press conference here on the subject of burdens on business. i was joined on the platform by colleagues from austria, finland and sweden – members from other countries would have come if they could have – who much shared the views which i will now share with the house. since the publication of the hughes report, i have been personally bombarded with complaints from the uk removers' association, the confederation of passenger transport, the road haulage association, the freight transport association and the international road transport union, as well as small local haulage companies and self-employed lorry drivers. they are united in their horror at amendments that would put uk operators out of business, and in their amazement that these proposals are coming from a uk mep. there is no evidence that self-employed lorry drivers, who rely on their own health and, on the safety of their vehicles for their day-to-day business existence, are in need of more eu legislation to make them more safe. there is no evidence that member states, when they agreed the common position, were unmindful of their health and safety responsibilities. there is no requirement on parliament to tighten up this legislation now. the rapporteur's amendments would lead to lower earnings for professional drivers, increase road congestion and pollution and raise transport costs. given that uk hauliers are already paying the highest fuel taxes in the world, these proposals would be the last straw for many in the uk road haulage industry. they also show no understanding of the needs of the industry, or its employees. these last three sentences are not my words. they are the words of the uk road haulage association. uk conservative meps will be rejecting all the hughes amendments. we shall not be alone.
mr president, i congratulate stephen hughes on his report. i believe that we have to have a level playing field for hauliers across the eu, because they travel across borders all the time. we are very concerned that some hauliers will be able to undercut their counterparts from other member states if we do not pass this directive. consequently, it is also important that we include self-employed workers. i know that my colleague said that the eldr group was against including self-employed workers, but in actual fact we were rather split on this and a sizeable minority of us actually believe that self-employed workers should be included. i believe that they should be included for several reasons, but the main one is again that they can undercut the other hauliers, and this will have tremendous health and safety implications. i am also afraid that some of the more unscrupulous employers will make those hauliers self-employed just to get round this legislation. that will lead to not only more deaths on the road, but to health problems for the hauliers themselves. i would like to also draw attention to the need that stephen hughes talked about of giving drivers an appropriate length of time before they take out a load. i know that mr hughes was talking about a 24 hour period. i put forward the compromise amendment of 12 hours' notice before the load was taken out and am very pleased that he has agreed to that amendment. it is only right that hauliers should be allowed some time to sleep, particularly before going on long journeys. i sincerely hope we are going to vote for this directive and include self-employed workers. it is a step in the right direction towards providing health and safety not only for the hauliers, but for other road users as well.
mr president, the aims of this report on improving road safety and guaranteeing minimum standards of health and safety for all road transport drivers are obviously worthwhile, but these goals need to be related to reality, for example their impact in peripheral and remote areas such as the highlands and islands of scotland. i have received many letters expressing a degree of alarm about the possible consequences of this proposal. for example, a haulage company in arran, not the most remote of scotland's islands, pointed out that many hours are spent on ferries to and from the mainland. this is an issue which may adversely affect tourist travel to, as well as from, areas like scotland. a coach operator in glasgow is of the view that if the hughes proposals are fully implemented, mainland european coach operators may regard scotland as a destination too far. in the case of scotland's western and northern isles, two or three ferry crossings may be required before reaching scotland's mainland, often landing in areas very remote from the ultimate destination. the report's conclusion also refers to achieving a level playing field with other transport sectors already covered. the reality, though, in much of rural and island scotland is that no alternative to road transport exists. indeed, a former shetland islands mep was fond of pointing out that the nearest mainline railway station to shetland is in fact bergen. scotland's road transport sector is already being penalised financially by the uk government through punitive taxation on fuel. some aspects of this working time proposal potentially threaten the already fragile viability of road transport. therefore i cannot fully support the more restrictive proposals in this report.
mr president, first of all i must apologise for my absence from the committee when my amendments to the esclopé report were discussed. i was involved in the british general election and also in the mayor-making of my wife, which is why i was unable to be here. i will confine my remarks to the esclopé report. this is an issue of great concern, provoked by the erika and aggravated by the ivoli sun disaster off the channel islands. as one personally associated in 1969 with the effects of the torrey canyon disaster on the beaches and livelihoods of south-west england, i have understood and shared that concern for many years. the proposals from the commission were all right as far as they went, but there are a number of deficiencies. the first is the potentially detrimental effects on existing international funds, the clc, i.e. the convention on civil liability, and the iopc, the international oil-pollution compensation fund. secondly, no attention was given to the bunker-fuel oil spills or the pollution caused by hazardous and noxious substances. there are two conventions on these subjects: the bunker oil convention 2001, and the hazardous and noxious substances convention of 1996. both of these are unlikely to be ratified in the foreseeable future. that is why they need to be addressed in this report. thirdly, there is in equity in terms of the responsibility for meeting the costs. i have some reservations about amendment no 22 and the implications for oil companies of pollution caused by chemicals or noxious substances. that is something that we can address at second reading. but in essence what we have tried to do is to rectify that inequity. mr esclopé sought to amend the report to take account of local public concerns and also to limit what is, i believe, the commission's unnecessary involvement in the day-to-day running of the cope fund. his suggestion of a tri-partite committee is well-meaning, but inadequate. we need to address the too heavy and bureaucratic involvement of the commission and we should accept the tried and trusted international arrangements used by the clc and iopc funds. finally, there is local consultation, which is needed, but should not be mandatory and it should not be a vehicle for delay. this has the potential to be a far-reaching and radical piece of european legislation and in consultation with other non-eu states it can go a long way towards resolving the problems of maritime pollution caused by oil and hazardous or noxious substances. we should be proud of this achievement and support it.
mr president, as a british mep i would like to say that on this occasion it is unfair to blame the french for the delay in implementing the erika i package. the council as a whole must share responsibility for the lack of progress. sadly it is not just the erika, but the 1 000 ships that have sunk over the past ten years that really highlight the desperate need to make progress in the areas we are discussing this afternoon. many lives have been lost, thousands of kilometres of our coastline have been damaged, perhaps for ever. that is why i, as pse spokesperson this afternoon, speak in support of the commission's proposal and the sterckx report on the need to establish a monitoring system for maritime traffic. i thank the rapporteur for all the work he has done, but i should like to focus on one item on which i cannot fully share his views, namely amendment no 11 to article 8. maybe the rapporteur could explain the amendment later on, but i fear that it seeks to water down the commitment contained in the commission's proposal to ensure that high-quality voyage data recorders – black boxes – are fitted in all ships, old and new, by 2007. in my view, and in that of many in the maritime sector, the reluctance to accept the value of voyage data recorders and take positive measures to fit them in merchant vessels is a factor which makes safety in the maritime sector less satisfactory. according to marine accident investigators, a voyage data recorder not only records what happens, but also removes arguments and ensures that appropriate corrective measures can be taken. it is, in their view, one of the most valuable tools available today in preventing accidents from happening, not just in learning from mistakes. electronic systems have highlighted the limitations of human ability to recall events accurately. they have on occasion shown eye-witness accounts to be totally unreliable. we desperately need these particular black boxes to be fitted sooner rather than later. to put it simply, a ship fitted with a black box is a safer ship. first, lessons can be learnt and they can be learnt accurately. but secondly, there will be a significant change in the safety culture of a ship as a whole. therefore the vdr is, if anything, a preventive tool. we would therefore support the commission's proposal. the imo route is perhaps a better one, but we are not prepared for a study that may be published in 2004 – who knows? we want action and we want it now.
the commission is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of ships is not compromised by the fact that the safety of ships is not guaranteed by the safety of ships. and also for having submitted and prepared these reports in such a short time and for the attention you have paid to the problem of maritime safety. however, like many of the speakers, i regret that we are discussing the erika ii package without having adopted erika i yet, although i hope that in conciliation we will reach a positive result as soon as possible. however, i would also like to say that the erika i and ii packages are already having a real impact on the international maritime organisation, where we have managed to get things moving with regard to the mandatory use of double-hulled or semi-hulled vessels for the transport of oil, with regard also to the discussion at the moment on increasing the figures to cover liabilities, which will very possibly exceed 300 million dollars - today they are 180 million - and also with regard to countries such as cyprus and malta which are making, and i say this to mr rack, a huge effort to improve the characteristics of their own fleet in the context of their accession to the european union, by accepting the requirements of the erika i and erika ii packages before they come into force. before the year is out, i'm going to put forward a proposal on ferry safety, although you know what happened to the samina express: they were watching football. greek justice is acting. i think we should draw the line. in the criminal field, the states of the union bear all the responsibility. i would refer to the proposal for a directive on maritime transport, which is the most advanced in terms of its preparation and i think that what indicates that progress is the consensus that exists around it. we support in general all the amendments, with slight changes in wording in those which are aimed at improving or clarifying the scope of the text, also, in part, although with some amendments, the very important amendments nos 6 and 18 on the refuge zone; with amendments, the amendments which tend to improve the evaluation of the application of the directive on the ground, namely nos 7, 20 and 21. we cannot accept amendment no 11 on black boxes in its current form - although i understand the rapporteur's objectives, the wording used makes this obligation dependent on a prior decision by the imo. we are not prepared to accept this. if the imo is not able to move forward, we will have to move forward ourselves; but we know that work is being done well within the international maritime organization and what we want is to put more pressure, the same as we have done with the double helmets. as regards the proposal for a european maritime safety agency, i would like to thank parliament for its positive approach to our proposal and its support. i would like to say that this is not a purely administrative measure, but that the agency will make the european union's commitment to raising the level of maritime safety and the prevention of pollution caused by ships as high as possible more visible to the public. and i would like to say to those who have expressed concern about the possibility of the agency becoming a new community bureaucratic body that it is precisely in the agency that we make possible the incorporation and participation of the states in a field which, as we all know, involves national and community responsibilities and competences and where, precisely, what we must seek is integration to coordinate these actions better. and the agency allows the commission and the states to work together in an independent body and that is one of its advantages. parliament's amendments do not alter the spirit of the commission's proposal and focus mainly on the administrative structure. amendments nos 1, 2, 7, 15, 16, 21 and 22 are supported by the commission; we can also accept amendment no 4 which allows the agency to provide technical assistance to applicant countries without a specific request from the commission, and amendments nos 14 and 10, which clarify the mandate of the main persons responsible for this body. as regards amendments nos 9, 20, 27 and 28, concerning the administrative council, i have to say that we accept amendments nos 9 and 27, where parliament's presence is abolished, and the appropriate adjustments will have to be made depending on the incorporation of these amendments. as regards the location of the agency, amendment no 19 seems to me to be more logical than amendment no 29. objective criteria for selection are required. i fully share that and i think it can be incorporated. we accept that the external evaluation of the agency is subject to conditions set by the management board, as partly requested by amendment no 17, although we do not think it necessary to repeat the evaluation every five years, as suggested in the same. as regards the visits to the states to be carried out by officials of the agencies, the commission would like the national administrations to be actively involved in and facilitate them. we cannot therefore accept amendments nos 6 and 5, which go against this objective. i understand the rationale of amendment no 18, but for reasons of legal certainty i cannot accept it, because the term 'independent' adds nothing to a body with its own legal personality. nor amendments nos 8 and 12, which imply that the commission's approval of the agency's programme is not necessary, nor amendments nos 13 and 25, which make the decision to carry out visits to the states subject to an opinion from the commission rather than to its agreement. monitoring the application of the acquis communautaire will remain the responsibility of the commission and the agency cannot replace us in this task. finally, the commission cannot agree with amendments nos 11 and 24 which concern the impartiality of the executive director. as regards the third proposal on liability and compensation for oil spills, i would like to congratulate mr esclopé on his work, and parliament, on a complex matter such as this. i want to make it clear that the problems are not about the underlying objectives but only about the means of achieving these objectives and we should try to solve all the problems by a proposal designed to address one specific issue: the lack of adequate compensation in the case of serious oil spills. and i agree with what mr esclopé has said. if we now include in this proposal the problems linked to other types of discharges, pollution by chemical discharges or cleaning of sewers, what we are going to do, in the end, is to paralyse and block the initiative. such proposals are specifically related to conventions which are pending ratification and which must be ratified in the coming years. i am prepared, if we see that there is no ratification of existing conventions by enough of the states participating in the imo, to make even regional proposals. but given that there is already an international proposal, i do not think we can rush into it. perfect is the enemy of good. let's focus on oil spills, where we have some data and some elements that allow us to move quickly. we can accept three groups of amendments which together represent about half of them. the first, the 19 amendments which seek to extend the scope of the regulation to cover other substances than hydrocarbons, such as chemicals and fuels, as i have said, we cannot support. the second group of amendments, amendments 22 to 25 and 50, which concern the role of shipowners in the cope fund and which seek to introduce compulsory contributions for shipowners, raise problems of compatibility with international law, since the existing international regime does not allow for additional compensation claims against shipowners unless the accident was caused by wilful misconduct. this is one of the problems identified by the commission in the existing international system which must be rectified at international level and we are committed to working on this. however, given the current situation, requiring shipowners to participate in compensation for damage would be in contradiction with current international standards and therefore we cannot accept it. but i have to say that amendments nos 29, 31, 34 to 42, 52 and 57 also pose problems for the commission because they aim to strengthen the participation of local representatives of the contaminated region in the cope fund committee procedures. i would remind the honourable members that this committee is covered by the decision on comitology and community law does not allow for a change in its composition. we cannot accept amendment no 19 which proposes to delete the clause which provides for the possibility of refusing compensation to the claimants involved in the accident, i.e. shipowners, charterers, managers. nor would it make sense to compensate those responsible for pollution. that is why i prefer to keep this paragraph which allows the refusal of payments to the parties most involved in the pollution. we have difficulties with amendment no 28, which proposes to shorten the period for collecting contributions, and finally with amendments nos 51, 52, 54 and 55, which create difficulties in practice because they are outside the scope of the proposal. therefore, all the others, in whole or in part, can be accepted. it's the 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 20, 30, 32, 33, and 43 through 49. i would like to conclude by once again thanking the rapporteurs for the speed and quality of their work, and the whole committee and parliament in general for their support for all that was the erika i and erika ii package. i hope that the subsequent procedures, in both, will be carried out with the highest quality of texts and proposals and as quickly as possible, and i announce that on the question of safety in the movement of persons and passengers, we will submit proposals before the end of the year. we would have liked to have achieved everything by now, but we must remember that sometimes we do not achieve what we all want, but we have made very important steps forward which - i repeat - already have real consequences in terms of increasing safety on our seas.
mr president, the establishment of formal reporting systems is clearly a requirement of annex vi to the chicago convention on international civil aviation. the united kingdom has a long-standing mandatory reporting scheme, mors, currently established under article 117 of the air navigation order and administered by the caa. there are several established systems for the interchange of safety data for analysis, such as jaa, eurocontrol, etc., as well as legal icao requirements. i would suggest that any eu initiative be compatible with the proven effective systems in place. my initial concerns were as follows: first, although the proposal insists on confidentiality and disidentification of reported information, which is a purely legal issue, it does not satisfactorily tackle the issue of information abuse, especially since data could be made available to third parties through many different channels, including the so-called and loosely-defined "research institutions", etc. aviation is always under close scrutiny by the media and such additional opportunities for reporting would inevitably be misused. it is therefore necessary that all parties using and providing data can genuinely trust the system. my second concern referred to article 2 and annexes i and ii. it is generally thought amongst safety experts that it is not the quantity of data that is important, but the quality of the reporting and analysis. the lists of examples of reportable occurrences may need to be addressed. as it stands, the proposal could become over-regulated, difficult to manage and have no added safety benefit. my third point referred to article 4. i believe it is essential that reports from pilots and other staff members be made to their own company. bypassing their own company structures would weaken the internal reporting processes that have been built up over the years. my final point refers to article 8, which appears to go too far by establishing a totally blame-free reporting system. this would need to be amended as there could be circumstances in which gross negligence is involved. my own experience over a number of years has shown that confidential reporting works extremely well. however, in such a safety-sensitive industry, it is important that all employees follow the strict rules, regulations and practices that are laid down. i would like to thank mr collins for producing a comprehensive report. it was a great pleasure to work with him. i believe that we have now reached a sensible conclusion and would hope that the amendments adopted in committee, which address those concerns, can be supported in the plenary vote. honourable members, i am in no doubt that all of us here welcome initiatives to enhance safety, but they must be well thought through and beneficial to the entire aviation industry and the public at large.
commission. – the commission wishes to underline its concern for the suffering of the entire civilian population of afghanistan, as a direct consequence of the ongoing conflict and the current drought. in this respect, echo has this year already allocated eur 15.5 million for humanitarian aid to afghanistan. echo is focusing particularly attention to vulnerable groups: internally displaced people (of which there are more than half a million), the disabled, women – particularly widows – and children. the needs of women and children are specifically addressed in mother-and-child health programmes. projects are being implemented by médecins sans frontires of belgium; médecins sans frontires of the netherlands; and from france, action contre la faim, aid médicale internationale and médecins du monde. all aim to treat malnutrition among children under five years of age, as well as monitoring the health status of women, in particular nursing mothers and pregnant women. usually, ngos also provide their female patients with elementary hygiene education. these projects are implemented in areas where internally displaced people have settled. currently, there are medical projects in the panjsher valley, herat, kandahar, kabul, mazar-e-sharif and hazarajad. ngos have access to all beneficiaries, women included, and can employ women as local ngo personnel in medical programmes, in spite of the fact that separation between the sexes has to be strictly observed. for instance, acf employs between 55 and 65 per cent of women in its medical programmes. medical ngos play an important role in the professional training of women. they organise medical training sessions for small groups of women in cooperation with the taleban ministry of health. we also carry out food-for-work projects. income-generating activities for women, which encourage self-sufficiency, are increasingly supported by echo. since 1999, echo has financed food-for-work projects in kabul for men and women through german agro action and medair from switzerland. while men are occupied in land recovery works and city drain cleaning, women are given raw materials and knitted quilts and sweaters, to be distributed to other beneficiaries. this kind of programme entails the participation of women from a variety of socio-economic classes, from educated to illiterate women, each using their knowledge and/or all manual abilities. they are paid a fixed rate in wheat seed every two weeks. this pilot project in kabul was subject to an independent evaluation, which proved to be very positive. medair is in the process of implementing a second phase. similar operations are now funded by echo in mazar, kandahar, herat, kabul and faizabad, through un habitat and various ngos. on other types of project, i can inform you that ngos, with the support of echo, try whenever possible to have women involved in each project. even in shelter programmes women are involved. female health monitors go from house to house visiting women in order to provide them with basic information on hygiene, primary health care and conservation of water and food. operational partners such as ngos, international organisations and red cross, family and un agencies closely monitor all operations through expatriates and local staff present in the field. all echo partners are bound by a framework partnership agreement, which obliges them to be present and, in relation to us, to present financial and operational reports of their activities on a regular basis. furthermore, echo has field experts, who also follow the ongoing projects very closely to ensure correct delivery of aid. recently, following un sanctions and meetings in europe with general massud, the northern alliance commander, meetings in europe, the hardliners within the taleban movement seem to be gaining the upper hand, as reflected in the hardening of their position against work by women. unfortunately, this general state of affairs is escalating, as we can read in press reports now. however, in conclusion we can say that, despite the difficulties, ngos in afghanistan are doing their best as our partners to alleviate the suffering of women in the country. echo is not carrying out development cooperation as such, but is delivering humanitarian aid. clearly, for many afghans – women and men, educated and uneducated – the activities we support are a valuable, and by and large the only, form of assistance. maintaining access for this humanitarian aid is crucial, and we will continue our work, even if the circumstances are difficult and appear to be worsening at present. i am planning to visit afghanistan in september with a view to stepping up this effort.
commission. – the problem is that the answer to the drought disaster in afghanistan would be systematic, normal, broader-based development cooperation. but the situation in that country does not make it possible to organise and implement normal development cooperation. what we are doing is making a relatively large-scale effort in terms of humanitarian aid. this year echo has identified afghanistan as one of the "forgotten conflicts", in order to focus on and raise awareness of the need to mobilise international society. it is also clear that the access problem is a real one, partly because of politics in afghanistan. the major challenge we face is to restate and explain the need for everyone involved on both sides of the conflict to accept unhindered access to the country by humanitarian organisations. this will be the focus of my efforts when i go there in september.
commission. – the direct answer to the question of whether the commission will actually contribute money to this fund is that at this stage we do not have an answer. i will try to explain. we made a joint council and commission declaration on the proposal for a global health fund at the development council meeting on 31 may. i will quote from the first part of this: "the council and the commission note with concern the devastating impact of hiv/ aids and other communicable diseases on human suffering and on economic and social development and hence also on poverty reduction efforts. the proposal by the un secretary-general to establish a global hiv/ aids and health fund is therefore fully welcomed. the commission and member states will explore how best to develop this initiative." the commission is taking an active part in the negotiations concerning the modalities and all the issues relating to this fund. there are a number of points we consider important. i will go through them, quoting from a speech i made on this issue during the ldc conference on 16 may. first, we would wish to see a number of principles or conditions fulfilled. i will name just a few. one, donors should make available additional and new resources over an extended period of time. the commission does not have access to additional resources. we have a specific budget. the commission is not in a position to tax directly, as you all know. so it is, in fact, the political decision-makers who decide on taxation who can provide additional resources. we cannot. two, the oecd countries need to take measures to assume a fair share of the global financial burden of reducing poverty and disease. three, we do not support single-issue funds and plead for a broad approach targeting the three major communicable diseases – malaria, tuberculosis and hiv/ aids. four, we will continue to raise the need for country ownership, integration with national development strategies and health systems development, effective coordination on the ground and keeping prevention efforts to the fore. this is crucial. if all this is not helped by a fund, the fund is no help at all. so, does it improve delivery? we have had enough empty donor-driven manifestations. if the answer to the question about delivery is not a clear "yes", the establishment of the fund will only be like crossing the creek to get wet feet. five, a fund should be open to contributions from all interested parties, both public and private, and should support action beyond the public sector. six, the governing structure of the funds should be light and transparent. the basic and multilaterally agreed health policy principles of who should be secured on how it is managed. seven, the fund should be outcome-driven as opposed to input-focused. eight, decreased transaction costs for countries should be a priority. finally, i wish to say that a global fund cannot succeed and will not get our support without a commitment from industry to a global, tiered pricing system. these conditions may look very demanding but they, represent in fact, the mainstream of shared international policy in this area. it would be a tragic mistake to organise a fund, which is supposed to be a procurement fund, for special, expensive types of medicine. today this is something which we more or less agree upon. but that is not how discussion about the fund started out. much of the discussion so far has been meaningful, but please note that as far as mobilising money is concerned, today we are not even allowed to provide core funding for un organisations. even under the new financial regulation, which we hope to get but do not yet have, we will not be allowed to carry out normal core funding, although we hope to be allowed to provide programme-based funding for un organisations. this fund, however, will not be a un organisation. what is on the cards here is to ensure core funding for this fund. none of this is as easy as it may be portrayed in the press, but we are, in substance, a very active player in contributing to making the fund a meaningful and well-organised entity.
commission. – it is very true that not only is this a human tragedy, it is also an economic disaster, the mathematics of which are simply paralysing. this is also true in cases where countries choose to opt for treatment. treating hiv-positive persons may mean that many of them can continue functioning, as schoolteachers or whatever. but the treatment is ongoing year after year, and the impact on national health budgets, even if they are given these anti-retroviral drugs for free, is incredible. the real bottleneck in the use of advanced complex medical treatments is not necessarily access to the drugs but the organisation of their delivery. few people realise that we are talking about 18 to 20 different pills or medications that have to be taken at intervals of a couple of hours, around the clock; that their composition has to be changed every few weeks and that all of this has to be very strictly and precisely organised. on top of this, all these persons need safe drinking water and at least two good, varied meals per day. in a developing country, that is asking quite a lot. the reality is not so easy. we have been informed that merck and the gates foundation have jointly set up a usd 100 million fund for lesotho. on top of that, merck has provided free medicine in order to solve the problems of delivery on the ground. they have been working on this for a year without much progress. this is why it is not just an evasive response to lay stress on prevention. we have seen that it can work in the case of uganda and in other places too we are beginning to see the aids curve go down. i appreciate the response from mr wijkman. it is true that these organisations need money. we will come to this in the next question. but it will never be the role of the commission to be a major supplier of general funding as such for the un organisations. freeing up additional money for these purposes is the role of the primary donors, that is the governments, who have the right to tax their citizens. that is how we mobilise additional money. it may also be possible to mobilise new private money. i hope this fund will be a breakthrough by doing so on a systematic basis. as to our own unspent money, the fact is not that we have money floating around, which we then send back to member states. the way the system is administratively organised in the case of the european development fund is that we call in money on a quarterly basis from the treasuries of the member states on an ongoing basis. we have real commitments that have not been translated into actions in terms of spending the money. but as i have told parliament on many occasions, we are going through the whole portfolio, reducing and scrapping those commitments that are not implementable and accelerating the flow in the pipeline. most of the money is in principle committed – implementation is the real challenge. as you were informed earlier, the rate of commitment from now on for aids activities will be at the level of about eur 800 million a year. this shows that in terms of contribution, we are a major player and are making a big effort in these countries. the question remains to be answered: will we be allowed to do it legally and will this fund actually mean improved ability to deliver on the ground? these are the questions that we need to come back to.
the commissioner will be aware that this parliament supported the change to the financial regulation which should at least partly ease his path. i should like to ask him two supplementary questions. first, as he said in his answer, there are many ongoing discussions. we very much welcome the summit that was called by kofi annan. we very much welcome his own round table which was organised last year and which made substantial progress at european level. i am aware that there is a proposal for a further such round table jointly between the european union and us interests. would the commissioner comment on whether he feels such a proposal is timely and whether he would be interested in participating in such a meeting? secondly, after the south african case, mr nielson's colleague, mr lamy, did commit european union technical assistance to developing countries afflicted by the hiv/ aids pandemic, to utilise the national emergencies clause in the wto to examine the use of generic drugs and of parallel importing to secure affordable medicines. would the commissioner comment on whether the european commission has been successful in identifying developing countries to utilise these monies in this way and what further steps he plans to take in order to achieve this?
commission. – mr president, during the ldc conference i met with the new administrator of us aid, and i can tell mr howitt that the issues he was looking at largely mirrored those i have mentioned today namely prevention of hiv/aids – the real problem being delivery – and so on. that was more promising than many other things we hear from his government. it remains to be seen whether the announced contribution of usd 200 million from the us government to this fund is approved by congress, and whether it will in fact be additional money, but that does not form part of our more restricted deliberations here. it is useful to pursue the dialogue with the united states on these issues, especially where we could feasibly agree on a practical approach, so i will continue working in this vein. as to the second question on using the national emergencies clause as a basis for opening up for some of the elements in the trips agreement, have been sending a clear signal to our partners in the developing world that the commission is interested in supporting their efforts to find and use the most flexible interpretation of the agreement and we have also stated – as we did at a joint meeting with the ceos of the major pharmaceutical companies that pascal lamy and myself attended – that we see a need to check the existing agreement, so as to ensure that the interpretation is good enough to facilitate better use of these possibilities in developing countries. however, we have not pinpointed any specific cases on which we can focus and act in a concrete manner. that said, we have expressed a strong desire to do so. what we have done is to apply pressure by announcing a total untying with regard to all essential drugs used to treat these transmittable diseases. opening up not only regionally, but also globally, should make price differentiation more difficult. it should also make for a change in stance from bidders from around the world and from the generic drug producers.
mr president, first i would like to thank the commissioner for his answers today. no one who has listened to the commissioner over the last few years in this house could doubt his commitment to removing poverty and disease from the world as efficiently and effectively as possible using eu-resources. i wanted to ask him a question about the third disease mentioned in this report, and suggest to him that perhaps we should concentrate on this least glamorous of the three, because tuberculosis could be eradicated. unfortunately hiv, as you say, is likely to be with us for a long time and at the moment we are largely into palliative care as regards hiv/aids. a concerted world programme over a relatively short period of time could eliminate tuberculosis from the world. i have a particular interest in this, because the cure was actually pioneered in my home city of edinburgh 70 years ago. we thought we had eradicated it in western europe, but it is re-emerging now. if we can remove it from the developing nations, we can also remove it from the world permanently. that is the prize – the permanent removal, which is unfortunately not yet available to us as regards the two other diseases. even if there is a delay in getting the world fund going on the other diseases, perhaps we could suggest to kofi annan and the un that we have a pilot project concentrating specifically on tuberculosis, which might inspire nations to contribute to the other areas once we see success in this area.
we all appreciate, mr president, how difficult it is to exercise your discretion on these occasions. but i have to say, on a day when we have had only one hour for questions, it was a bit hard that you allowed all the supplementaries to over-run. it becomes a farce if our efforts to hold the commission to account result in a shortened question time and only five questions being asked and answered.
i hope, understanding as i do your answer, mr president, that i have the good fortune to appear higher on the list the next time you are in the chair for question time.
mr president, i welcome with satisfaction the proposals before us because i believe that not only will aviation safety in general be improved, but this will also strengthen cooperation procedures, as well as reinforcing preventive strategies. importantly, this report will also offer an adequate degree of confidentiality for the people closely involved, who have the most intimate knowledge of how to run a safe aviation industry: i refer to aircraft crew, air traffic controllers and maintenance personnel. it is also important for us to stress best practice, particularly in the area of research and development. here we welcome the setting up of the european coordination centre for aviation incident reporting. that is why we support the rapporteur, who has been as careful as ever to ensure consistency between eu legislation and the international framework provided by the icao. this is also the reason why we cannot accept the excessive restrictions implied by some amendments adopted in committee, especially those that seek to hide the responsibilities of the operators. companies will not become safer and more competitive if we hide these responsibilities. we believe that customers have the right to be fully informed. similarly we cannot accept those amendments that deliberately try to weaken the position of people in the industry, whose duty it is to accurately point out incidents. to have a reliable system of occurrences reporting in civil aviation, we have to ensure confidentiality for the people who report them. the commission's proposals are right, even if there may be a risk of legal implications. the only risk to safety we can see comes from an attempt to dilute the proposals in favour of the airline companies. i thank mr collins for his excellent report and hope that his common sense approach will be adopted by parliament.
mr president, in the previous debate in september last year i confirmed that health and safety was an important issue, and i commended the rapporteur on the thought that he had put into his work. i am delighted to see that he has finally arrived here so that he can hear me say that yet again. my complaint was then, and still is now, that this was a matter best left to member states or indeed to local authorities – a point already made most eloquently by my colleague, mr jensen, a few moments ago. when the original commission proposal on this subject was published, it said: "the difficulties of implementing the provisions on the ground should not be underestimated in the case of smes". despite this comment the rapporteur put forward even more detailed amendments and then blithely stated in the september debate: "this is a small- to medium-sized business-friendly piece of legislation". coming straight after the report of mr hughes, earlier today, suggesting a number of amendments to the proposed extension of the working time directive to mobile workers, one thing is very clear. the people who believe that the eu should legislate in the finest detail, the people who are piling on more burdens on business without even understanding that is what they are doing, are not some unelected brussels bureaucrats, they are britain's very own labour meps. i now understand what tony blair means by labour leading in europe. when it comes to extra red tape british labour meps are way out in front.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am very pleased with the generous remarks that have been made and apologise for not being here on time. we can thank the chauffeurs' service of parliament. as wonderful as it is at ferrying us in every day, they seem to have left me behind some half-an-hour after i asked for them to be there. apart from this complaint, i should like to thank all the services that have been a part of this very successful report. i see simon duffin, for example, from our secretariat in parliament, who was instrumental in bringing about many of the compromises, agreements and consensus in our committee. we should be generous in our praise for people like simon and others in the commission who worked tirelessly in bringing about this particular report. it is a first. through an informal process, it may beggar belief to mr bushill-matthews- although i thank him for his original praise to begin with – that it is an employer-friendly report. there is nothing like this that has come through the processes of health and safety. that may stagger you, but it is true. it is true for various reasons. perhaps we ought to start off by reminding ourselves of the very reason why this report came about in the first place. the report was lost as a scaffolding or works-at-height directive, as an annex to an original report. the reason why it was lost was because originally it was blocked for reasons i will not bother to go into now. but sense prevailed and now we have it back. five hundred thousand people each year fall from heights. that is quite a staggering amount across the european union every year. forty thousand – as you have probably already heard – are seriously injured; seriously enough for them to have three or more days off from work. a thousand, very sadly, die each year, with the consequent effects on administration, the burden to businesses of finding replacements, of training, finding the costs for compensating the relatives. that is quite a burden for business. across the european union the costs are estimated as being in the region of eur 28 billion every year. that is enough for a whole host of hospitals, schools, roads, or whatever you want, across the european union. yet we still persist in allowing accidents to happen in the workplace. forgive me for being passionate about this, but if you can stop accidents in the workplace, i say you are doing a favour for the workers in the enterprise and for the businesses themselves. we should strive to do that in the most reasonable and practicable way. those people who know me, know me for being a practical person, not somebody up there in the clouds wishing further ideology to descend on businesses, but somebody who sees the real advantages for the person in the workplace. i worked at heights. i worked on scaffolding. i worked on ladders. i tried to carry things too large for people to be able to carry. i have seen it. let me tell you these are not fly-by-night dreams of someone in parliament. if i am a labour mep who has brought legislation in, i am very proud to do that because we may see a reduction of accidents in the workplace as a result of such legislation. not only that, it is employer-friendly because it brings about a level playing-field. no longer will we have the competitive basis, on which some companies wish to compete, of people who prefer to miss out all these rules and regulations in favour of seeking the lowest cost, the lowest denominator in the workplace. that puts at risk the lives and livelihoods of those people who are the most vulnerable – the people who are working there. parliament has been incredibly successful in this process. it has been successful for many reasons. it has partly been successful because it has been able to include things which the commission and the council were not originally willing to consider. these are not burdens. i do not think that including self-employed people in this particular legislation is burdensome. when you look at the contracting industry – take electricians, for example – the vast majority are self-employed. the report has not only looked at contracting industries in the building sector but looked across a wide spectrum of people working at heights. it is not just people working on building sites that fall from buildings or scaffolding, it is across a range of different industries. it seems remarkable that this could be so misrepresented. parliament also stood out in favour of maintaining a sensible balance between too much detail and that which needs to be regulated. we need regulation if we are to have the kind of standards which a civilised european union wants to see. this move was underlined by the fact that parliament took a very mature interest in some of that detail and effectively helped people, for example, who have to carry huge weights on ladders, to consider the very serious problems that could happen to themselves and the very serious injuries. not all the amendments came from the socialists. it is not as if we were some devious clique involved in destroying businesses. amendments came from the other side of the house as well. let us not forget that. you are criticising your own colleagues as well. this is a very successfully arranged piece of legislation. it has been achieved through consensus and goodwill in our committee. i thank all the people who have been a part of that. i hope we will be able to enjoy the success for many years to come.
the commission is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted the proposal for a directive on the safety of workers in the event of falls from a height. i would point out that thanks to the tenacity of mr skinner, your rapporteur, an agreement has been reached with the council and therefore, in the end, there is a common position which will allow us to unblock and get on with this. the question of selfemployed persons, as has been mentioned, remains open and the council and the commission intend to issue a joint statement expressing their desire to find a solution that will be valid for all those involved in the preparation, execution and completion of temporary work at height. i would like to congratulate everyone on their work, the rapporteur in particular and all the speakers, and say that when we talk about health and safety at work we do not consider whether it is for employees or selfemployed workers. what we care about is the health of the workers, whatever their recruitment or working methods.
mr president, perhaps i could waste a little time because earlier on we were informed that the linkohr report would be taken at 10 p.m. obviously you have been speeding through things at an extraordinary rate and mr linkohr must have been under the misapprehension that he was not required until 10 p.m. i have only just got here myself as a shadow rapporteur. could we perhaps waste a little time?
mr president, mr linkohr's report is much to be welcomed. it is a balanced report with workable suggestions on how to improve the intermittently precarious oil supply situation. that it is precarious can be seen from the spike in prices which occurred last autumn, or as is occurring now with iraq's decision to stop oil exports. it is precarious because we depend on supplies of oil from unstable parts of the world. it is intermittent because these crises endure for relatively short periods as market forces come to bear and rectify the situation. indeed the volatility of oil prices, ranging in the last 18 months from usd 10 to 34 per barrel, is as much a problem for the suppliers as it is for the consumers. this gives us an opportunity, because stable prices are of interest both to us in europe and to the oil supplier countries. we should make a much more consistent effort to develop a dialogue with the oil supplier countries, with the middle east, with russia, with the caspian and caucasus countries and with west africa. this dialogue must not just be pursued when there is a shortage, or when there is a seller's market, or when it is in our interest. it must be pursued also when the boot is on our foot, when there is a glut and a buyer's market. as a practical example, europe should encourage and facilitate the construction of oil and gas pipelines from these places to the heartland of europe. nor should we overlook the potential of our indigenous oilfields, notably those in my scottish constituency. research and investment and improved recovery techniques have already extended the life and productivity of the north sea and continental shelf oilfields. but more can still be done. we must also pursue opportunities for saving energy, above all in the transport sector. yes, we must do what we can to promote renewable and alternative energies. but we cannot share mr linkohr's enthusiasm for harmonising tax rates and using harmonised tax, applied at european level, and the manipulation of strategic oil reserves to regulate oil prices. tax rates are for the member states to set and clearly they are quite unwilling to sign up to the long-delayed directive on taxation of energy products. taxes on energy should be set in the context of an open competitive european market which, in itself, will ensure that fuel costs are not too far out of line from one country to the next. we cannot afford to hobble our economies, our industries and those who live and work in our rural and remoter regions. yes, oil supply is a matter which has to concern us. the commission's communication and mr linkohr's report are valuable contributions to understanding the problem and defining possible solutions. if we can succeed in amending the few unacceptable aspects that i have detailed, this group will be pleased to support mr linkohr's report.
mr president, i congratulate my colleague, mr linkohr, on this report. it is a welcome contribution to the wider debate on security of supply of energy in europe, on which i am working at present. i should like to pick up on four points. regarding paragraph 1, calling for effective dialogues with supplier countries, earlier this afternoon i attended a meeting where we heard about the work of the energy charter and the importance of putting that framework in place, in particular for our trading and investment relations with russia as a primary source of oil and gas. i would like to emphasise the importance of that initiative. next, paragraph 7 calls on the eu to make greater efforts to replace oil as far as possible. i support that paragraph. there is great potential and we are looking forward to hearing from the commission later this year with proposals to encourage bio-fuels and other alternatives as a supplement – and perhaps a complement – to oil at present. thirdly, paragraph 27, on a different tack, urges the commission to encourage enhancing production of oil in europe through improved techniques of extraction. this also must surely be a sensible policy to make the best use of our own resources. fourthly, paragraph 30 calls on member states to work on the housing and transport sectors as areas where we can dramatically improve our energy efficiency and our conservation of energy. these both have to be a sensible approach. finally, it seems to me that perhaps the most important thing we have to do – which is a challenge ahead of us – is to influence and change public opinion on the need for conservation and efficiency.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. – mr president, i should like to congratulate mr busk on his excellent report. he has managed to incorporate most of the legislation that went through the committee on the environment, which is important. it is also important that we push this legislation forward so that the consumers can have a product which they know is perfectly safe, is reared in an environmentally-friendly manner and which they can eat with total safety, knowing that the animal has had an excellent life. it is up to farmers to follow the legislation through. mr busk touched on two or three important issues. i will reiterate them very quickly. one of them was transport of animals. we are well aware of the importance of that and i know commissioner byrne, is equally aware of it. bringing that legislation into the wto negotiations is vitally important, as is clear labelling. let me add, speaking not just from the viewpoint of the committee on the environment but also as farmer, that what we must not do within the european union – and here i plead with the commissioner, knowing his views on the way we import and export our products – is to end up putting legislation in place which exports the very industries on which we are legislating now in the eu. if we do that, then we simply end up exporting animal welfare outside the european union where we have no control over it. we must have equality, not just within the european union, but also for products coming into the european union. i plead with the commissioner to make sure that sort of legislation is in place, so that we do not have products coming into the european union which are not of the same standard that we set. i know it is very difficult for people to understand this, but i hope that the commissioner will follow it through and keep that legislation in place.
mr president, i would like to return to a matter which i am recorded as having raised in yesterday's minutes. question time to the commission yesterday was truncated to a single hour, during which only five questions were answered. one of the most important aspects of the structure of the union is the real accountability of commissioners before this parliament, which must relate to questions of relative detail that can be raised at question time, not just to issues of general policy. it will be disastrous for the union if we carry on this practice of truncating question time and having very few questions dealt with properly. one possibility suggested to me is that we might at least contemplate having a weekly question time in brussels, as well as in strasbourg, so as to provide for thorough questioning of the commission on points which our constituents wish us to raise with them. i am glad to see mr provan here today, because this kind of question falls within his remit as a member of parliament's bureau. i put it to members that it is vital that we question the commission effectively. we are not doing this at the moment. (applause)
mr president, on a point of order. like mr andrews, i, too, feel a great deal of concern at the way this matter of the travel office has been handled. i am not sure that the administration has actually raised it with the college of quaestors, which would be the correct body to refer the matter to. it is really for them to look after members' interests. as far as mr maccormick is concerned, i am glad to see mr corbett sitting here because it is the committee on constitutional affairs that is now looking at this matter, after the bureau decided to refer it to them. i think he has the matter well in hand.
mr president, what mr bourlanges said just now about the lack of time in strasbourg is somewhat exaggerated. if you look at yesterday's minutes, you will see that under item 5 it says that 'the sitting was suspended at 11.30 awaiting voting time and resumed at 12.00'. so we had half an hour to spare. that time could have been used more profitably in this plenary session. hence it is totally incorrect to state that the problem with question time to the commission stemmed from our not having sufficient time because we no longer sit on fridays.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr martínez martínez, and the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development, the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, the committee on budgets and the committee on legal affairs and the internal market for the reports which deal in detail and constructively with the complex issue of the outermost regions. let me give you some figures on the disadvantages of these areas. six of the seven outermost regions have an average per capita income between 40 and 55% of the european average, making them among the lowest in the union. unemployment rates in five of these areas are among the highest in the european union, ranging from 21 to 37% of the labour force. the first proposal concerns the involvement of the structural funds. the maximum contribution from the funds has been set - and this is new - at 85% of the total eligible costs for all the outermost regions. the maximum participation of the funds in investments in small and medium-sized enterprises has been raised from 35 to 50%. the second proposal concerns the regulation on rural development in the second pillar of the common agricultural policy. the ceiling for the eaggf contribution to eligible investment costs is raised from 50% to 75% for investments in agricultural holdings and from 50% to 65% for investments in processing and marketing. in addition, the aid will be extended to forests and land owned by public local, regional and national bodies. the proposal also provides for an increase in certain financial contributions from the financial instrument for the development of fisheries. any additional expenditure incurred as a result of this may be financed from the budget allocated for the 2000-2006 programming period. i am glad that parliament is supporting the commission's proposals in principle and that there has been a constructive debate in the various committees. i can also agree to a number of amendments, provided that appropriate wording is found. this includes raising the maximum aid rates for the whole food industry to 65% and for smes to 75%, provided that the investments meet certain objectives for sectors and enterprises. these will have to be defined at a later date. the commission has also decided to increase the agri-environmental measures and the three other accompanying measures to 85% and to double the ceilings for agri-environmental measures in so far as these measures concern the sensitive areas of madeira and the azores. i agree that the measures will be applied retroactively from 1 january 2000. the commission, however, maintains its position on the legal basis. article 299 (2) should be used only for exceptions to the treaties or to general principles of law. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the evaluation of the aid schemes on the basis of the previous programmes has shown that the measures taken so far have had a positive overall impact. but there has also been criticism on some points. the commission's proposals were drawn up both in the light of these assessments and in the light of these criticisms. what are the main considerations? firstly, the current framework of the special supply arrangements and the specific aid for local agricultural production should be simplified, consolidated and improved. secondly, the special supply arrangements must be strengthened, since their objective of bringing the cost of production in the peripheral regions into line with that in the rest of the community remains valid. thirdly, the list of products has been revised and some feedstuffs have been added to it. fourthly, we want more competition between the sources of supply. we therefore introduce the principle that the aid must reflect the cost of transport from the european mainland. finally, fifthly, the common organisations of the market in milk and beef should be adapted to harmonize the three posei regulations. the commission must take account of the principle of budgetary neutrality in its attitude to the amendments. this must be respected in any case. the expenditure for the three posei programmes can nevertheless increase to eur 204.4 million by 2005, evenly split. the proposal is covered by savings. the commission can therefore only approve budgetary amendments if they are offset by equally high savings. now let me close with the points on which i can agree. i can agree to the opening of the special supply arrangements for french territories for products from all third countries, not just developing countries and other overseas territories, and then to the fixed dates for the entry into force of certain articles of the poseidom to maintain continuity and to enable trade between the azores and madeira in products covered by the supply arrangements. under certain conditions, the conversion of vineyards containing hybrid varieties may continue in the azores and madeira. the promotion of imports of bovine animals for fattening could be integrated into a comprehensive livestock aid programme for the canary islands. finally, the transitional arrangements should be strengthened to ensure continuity. i cannot agree with the use of article 292 (2) here either. i would like to turn now to the fishing reports. i would like to confine myself to the amendments, which you should know if you are going to vote now. the first two amendments concern the legal basis. since the same legal basis must apply to the whole package of measures, the commission maintains its proposal to use article 37. article 299 should be invoked only when it is a question of derogating from the treaty. that's not the case here. i can accept the third amendment. amendments nos 4 and 6 concern problems of fish and flags of convenience. this was pointed out in the debate. we are in complete agreement with you on this point. i would like to expressly welcome the fact that parliament has a clear position on this. we want to solve this problem by means of a new amendment to regulation 27/92, which is already under way. we shall be submitting a proposal to parliament and the council in the next few days. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission considers that this compromise is acceptable, since the fleet segment concerned is classified as small-scale coastal fishing and that any adverse effects should be avoided. the small-scale coastal fishing does not pose a threat to the stocks either. in the fifth amendment you propose to extend the scope of the regulation to include the renewal and modernisation of the fleets mentioned and to increase the national and community intervention rates for the whole fleet. we cannot agree with your amendment no 5 because we believe that we should not encourage any further overcapitalisation of the eu fleet. i can accept amendments nos 7 and 8. i would like to make a brief comment on the report by mrs fraga estévez. the proposal under discussion is the first of a series of measures ordered by the nice european council. the commission has already proposed that the aid scheme be extended until 30 june. the second part of the nice mandate will also be adopted by the commission in june. in this draft council regulation we will propose a number of exceptions to the fifg provisions and specific measures for which additional funds will be provided. but since this proposal will not be adopted by the council before the autumn, we can accept your amendment, namely, to extend the aid to the fishermen concerned and to the shipowners until the end of the year, as part of today's proposal. i think that is justified for social reasons. i hope that despite the noise here, those who were interested in this have heard my report and my opinion. thank you for your attention. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i understand that at the beginning of today's sitting a point was raised about the travel office and the fact that the current staff are to make way for a new company. i would like to make it clear that the quaestors were not consulted about this change. they should have been, and an undertaking was given that they would be before a tender was awarded, but they were not consulted. i have managed to speak only to mary banotti so far, but i can assure you that we will take this matter up. (applause)
mr president, in relation to the point that you raised after commissioner fischler had spoken. i feel the noise in this chamber is an absolute disgrace. i know all the presidents try desperately to stop it. i suggest the presidency look at possibly having a five-minute break between the end of commissioners' statements and the vote. we cannot continue to allow commissioners to be treated this way. (applause)
- i couldn't agree more. we have to do something about it. this behavior sets a dishonorable example. i do not know what people in the public gallery think of parliament.
- thank you, your explanations were clear and helpful.
- thank you and please give my best to your mother.
mr president, in the debate yesterday a number of speakers from remote parts of the union drew attention to the potentially severe effects that this new law would have on outlying places. mr hudghton, for example, drew attention to the problems of drivers coming from the hebrides onto the mainland of scotland and then onwards. ms kauppi made similar points as i recall about finland, and other colleagues made points about portugal. we were told that during the debate that the intention is to provoke a conciliation and obtain a compromise position between the commission and parliament at conciliation. i voted as i did in the hope and expectation that the parliament delegation to the conciliation committee will take proper and full account of the very severe problems of remote parts of the union in relation to this law.
in writing. - the british conservative delegation voted against the hughes amendments for the reasons set out in my speech during the debate. however, we voted in favour of my amendment no 23, which calls for the completion and publication of a thorough trade impact study within three years of the adoption of the directive. we have taken this decision despite the shocking remark by commissioner palacio at the end of yesterday's debate that she 'obviously' could not accept this amendment because it would impose an unreasonable administrative burden! if adopted by the council, the hughes amendments will impose an additional burden on the selfemployed and smes. it is therefore particularly important that the impact on these enterprises be clearly identified and studied in detail at an early stage so that a review of the directive can be considered.
in writing. - (de) the basic objectives of this recommendation are to increase road safety, to guarantee a minimum standard of health and safety for workers, and to ensure a level playing field with other modes of transport. the common position adopted by the council does not take sufficient account of this, in particular as regards: - the inclusion of selfemployed drivers; - the lack of consideration of staff of transport undertakings whose headquarters are outside the member states of the european union; - the definition of the concepts of working time and availability time; - the definition of night work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. 1. the inclusion of selfemployed drivers within two years of the implementation of the directive is necessary to solve the problem of pseudo-selfemployment and the non-compliance with the working time limitations that will accompany it. 2. the the working time of self-employed drivers must include not only driving time but also vehicle checks, administrative procedures, management, etc. otherwise, the rest times would be so reduced that the health of drivers would be threatened and road safety would be reduced, as a large number of serious accidents occur as a result of excess fatigue. 3. the social aspects must be taken into account in defining the concepts of availability time, night time and night work. 4. the proof of driving time must be provided for all drivers, regardless of whether they are employed or self-employed.
in writing. - this report, which led to the common position, promotes health and safety for all workers across the eu who are required to work at height on temporary equipment. it is about legislation that is both pro-employer and able to draw attention to the 'safety culture' and practices needed to save lives and reduce the frequency of personal injury. the labour group has always sought to remove any unnecessary burden on business while promoting the most effective and feasible solutions that legislation can produce.
in writing. - the british conservative delegation of the epp-ed group voted against the martínez martínez report on specific measures for certain agricultural products in favour of different countries. my colleagues and i are fully aware of the specific needs of the eu's outermost regions because of their isolation and the problems that arise from it. however, we are of the opinion that the commission has drawn up an adequate proposal to deal with their difficulties and that the adoption of complementary measures, as proposed by the rapporteur, cannot be justified in view of their political or budgetary implications. the agricultural sector is facing serious difficulties throughout europe and a further increase in the budget devoted to it does not seem realistic to us in the present circumstances. similar reasoning was the basis for my delegation's decision to vote against mr martínez martínez's other report on structural measures.
- the explanations of vote are now closed.
- the next item is the report (a5-0184/2001) by mr graefe zu baringdorf, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1259/1999 establishing common rules for direct support schemes under the common agricultural policy (com (2000) 841 - c5-0762/2000 - 2000/0335 (cns)).
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank you, mr graefe zu baringdorf, for your detailed consideration of this proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in its opinion on the agenda 2000 reforms, the court of auditors criticised the fact that member state authorities pay relatively modest amounts of aid to a relatively large number of farmers, with considerable administrative burden. a number of member states expressed similar views at the meetings of the working parties chaired by the directorate-general for agriculture. the present proposal is the commission's response to these demands. it is designed to make life easier not only for the national authorities but also, and above all, for the farmers who will be able to benefit from this simplified system in the future. the main advantage for farmers is probably that they will have to fill in fewer forms and that the conditions for granting aid will be much simpler. the workload of national authorities is reduced both in processing applications and in carrying out checks. i am a strong advocate of our succeeding in simplifying the common agricultural policy. this proposal is a first step in this simplification effort, it is something entirely new, and after we have focused on simplifying already adopted rules which have subsequently proved difficult, complicated or too expensive to apply, this is now a new way forward. but we will certainly continue to work on simplifying the rules already adopted. as many aspects of the small farmers' scheme have not yet been tested, we must bear in mind that this is likely to be an experiment, which will be carried out initially by 2005. for the same reason, the commission has also deliberately limited the scope of the scheme to a certain selection of direct aids and has set a relatively low ceiling in order to avoid risks and avoid reproaches from the european court of auditors. the scheme is to be evaluated before the pilot phase is completed, and i very much hope that this evaluation will then be the basis on which we can find a more comprehensive, generous and also long-term solution. i would like to turn now to the individual amendments. the environmental requirements of regulation 1259/99 continue to apply because they are already covered by the regulation. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the proposal in amendments nos 2 and 3 to increase payments by 20% seems to me to be very problematic. firstly, the scheme would no longer be budget-neutral, but would have an additional cost of eur 100 million per year. secondly, the purpose of the proposal is simply to bring existing aid to farmers in a simplified way. i would also like to point out that farmers will have the choice of using the average of the last three years as a basis or the average of the last year. it is true that we are in a certain transitional phase. but for the total area premium, that transition is complete today. as for the cattle premium, there will be an increase next year. that's right, i did. if a farmer here really feels that he would lose money, then he has the right to submit a normal application for that one year and to join the flat-rate scheme only one year later. the commission does not intend to put farmers at a disadvantage. but it is also not justified that we should introduce a bonus increase through the back door. the commission can accept the idea of amendment no 4 to raise the proposed ceiling beyond eur 1 000. amendment no 5 must, however, be rejected by the commission. the decision to apply this system must be taken at national level at this experimental stage, while allowing member states to apply the small farmers scheme at regional level.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission also considers that this should not be about savings, but it cannot be about premium increases either. the proposal, as we have understood it, would be a 20% increase in the total amount, which means that there would be substantial additional costs. i have already told you that all the increases in premiums under agenda 2000 are covered here, with the exception of the last increase, which will be made in the beef sector on 1 july next year. all the others are already included. the increase for the cattle sector next year will not be 20%, but will be around 10%. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted. it can, and there is no disadvantage to the farmer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the use of the ecu in the community budget, and whether he has not already made a statement on the use of the ecu in the community budget.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 1.05 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
- the agenda calls for the debate on topical, urgent and major issues.
- b5-0434/2001 by mrs mckenna and others, on behalf of the green group, on the protocol verifying compliance with the convention on the prohibition of biological and toxin weapons; - b5-0446/2001 by mr newton dunn, on behalf of the eldr group, on the protocol on verifying compliance with the convention on the prohibition of biological and toxin weapons; - b5-0454/2001 by mr cushnahan and mr posselt, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the protocol to verify compliance with the convention on the prohibition of biological and toxin weapons; - b5-0462/2001 by mr wiersma and mr van den berg, on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists, on the protocol on verifying compliance with the convention on the prohibition of biological and toxin weapons.
mr president, as everyone knows, the leaders of the eu and the american president are meeting in göteborg today. obviously some of the things they will air are their differences about the kyoto protocol on the environment and global warming and about the anti-ballistic missile treaty, which needs updating. but there is another important matter, however, which has received very little publicity and to which this debate is designed to draw attention. it is the six-year negotiations that are nearing completion to update the 1972 biological and toxic weapons convention. the problem with the 1972 convention is that while it banned production of biological weapons it contained no means of verifying whether they were being produced on the quiet. despite six years of negotiation, it now appears that the new us administration is backing off and is unwilling to support the terms that have been negotiated to date, including by its own predecessors. in the widespread opinion of this house, the presidential elections last november did not suggest that the american people wanted a wholesale change in government policy, but favoured a continuation of the previous policy. nevertheless, there are now very alarming signals that the americans may not support the work that has been done so far. if that is the case, and if there is no final agreement on containing biological and toxic weapons, what kind of message will it send out to what president bush calls the ‘rogue’ states of the world? we cannot get involved in the negotiations but the most important thing we can do – and i hope the house will agree – is to give strong support to the eu negotiating team and say to the americans: ‘come on, sign up, we need this agreement’.
commission. – mr president, the commission fully supports the resolutions tabled by the different groups in the european parliament. it is indeed critical at present that effective progress be achieved by the international community in the field of non-proliferation and disarmament. as regards the specific case of the btwc signed in 1972, the lack of a verification protocol has been a major flaw vis-à-vis non-proliferation in the international community. the ad hoc group was created to resolve this issue. after five years of difficult negotiations at the disarmament conference in geneva, the time has now come to conclude such a protocol. the eu praises the commitment of ambassador tóth, chairman of the ad hoc group, to achieve effective progress in time for adoption of the verification protocol during the btwc conference at the end of this year. the commission hopes that all states parties will accept the composite paper as a good starting point towards enabling the task of drafting and agreeing on the protocol to be finalised in time for the btwc conference.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
- the following motions for resolutions are requested for joint debate: - b5-0431/2001 by mr rod and others, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on central africa; - b5-0437/2001 by mr sylla and mr miranda, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the situation in the central african republic; - b5-0447/2001 by mr van den bos, on behalf of the eldr group, on the situation in the central african republic; - b5-0455/2001 by mr bowis and mr morillon, on behalf of the ppe-de group, on the situation in the central african republic;
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
- the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:guatemala - b5-0430/2001 by mrs frassoni and others, on behalf of the green group, on the human rights situation in guatemala; - b5-0438/2001 by mr di lello finuoli and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the human rights situation in guatemala; - b5-0448/2001 by mr gasòliba i böhm, on behalf of the eldr group, on the human rights situation in guatemala; - b5-0464/2001 by mr van den berg and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on guatemala. electoral fraud in chad - b5-0439/2001 by mr sylla and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on electoral fraud in chad; - b5-0449/2001 by mr van den bos, on behalf of the eldr group, on the presidential elections in chad; - b5-0457/2001 by mr bowis and mr morillon, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the current situation in chad following the presidential elections; - b5-0465/2001 by mrs carlotti and others, on behalf of the pse group, on the presidential elections in chad; - b5-0472/2001 by mrs maes and others, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on the situation in chad. - b5-0425/2001 by mr dupuis and others, on behalf of the tdi group, on the case of mrs nawal saadawi and mr saad eddin ibrahim in egypt; - b5-0450/2001 by mr van den bos and others, on behalf of the eldr group, on the case of mrs nawal saadawi and mr saad eddin ibrahim in egypt; - b5-0466/2001 by mr van den berg, on behalf of the pse group, on the case of mrs nawal saadawi and mr saad eddin ibrahim in egypt; - b5-0471/2001 by mr cohn-bendit and others, on behalf of the green group, on the case of mrs nawal saadawi and mr saad eddin ibrahim in egypt. b5-0433/2001 by mrs mckenna, on behalf of the green group, on detention without trial under the internal security act (isa) in malaysia; - b5-0451/2001 by mr maaten, on behalf of the eldr group, on the situation in malaysia; - b5-0458/2001 by mr cushnahan and mr posselt, on behalf of the ppe-de group, on detention without trial under the internal security act (isa) in malaysia; - b5-0467/2001 by mr ford, on behalf of the pse group, on detention without trial under the national security act (isa) in malaysia. afghanistan - b5-0423/2001 by mr belder, on behalf of the edd group, on the continuing human rights violations by the taliban regime in afghanistan; - b5-0424/2001 by mr dupuis and others, on behalf of the tdi group, on the situation in afghanistan; - b5-0427/2001 by mrs muscardini, on behalf of the uen group, on the situation in afghanistan; - b5-0429/2001 by mrs evans and others, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on afghanistan; - b5-0442/2001 by mrs fraisse and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the continuing violations of human rights in afghanistan; - b5-0452/2001 by mrs malmström and mrs thors, on behalf of the eldr group, on the continuing human rights violations by the taliban regime in afghanistan; - b5-0459/2001 by mr mann and mr tannock, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on afghanistan; other countries
mr president, last year mrs maes, mrs carlotti and i were in chad to look at the pipeline project and its impact on the local people and communities and on the environment. we were also looking at human rights in that country. today we three have tabled this motion because our concern then for human rights has been compounded now by allegations following the presidential elections. it is right that we should not jump to conclusions. it is right that we should take note of the oau monitors, who thought that the elections were broadly fair. it is equally right that we should take note of the views of those other observers and human rights groups who thought they were not. the government of chad needs to reassure public opinion in chad and throughout the world by holding an independent and a public inquiry into the allegations that have been made. the european union should insist on this. we are major investors in chad and we should certainly be thinking of sending monitors from this parliament to chad for next year's parliamentary elections. however, there are questions to which we demand answers. first, if there are 4 million voters registered in chad and another half million registered abroad, how can 5.6 million people have voted? is it true that children were seen with ballot papers? secondly, why were the oau and other international observers not allowed into the north of the country? thirdly, why were the officials of polling stations in the north replaced at midday by military and other civilian personnel? fourthly, if the total votes recorded in the south were overwhelmingly for opposition candidates as alleged, how can the overall vote have been calculated as it was? fifthly, is it true, and i believe it was, that a women's delegation seeking to present a petition to the french ambassador was shot at and dispersed by military personnel? sixthly, is it true that the six opposition candidates were arrested after the election and one of these, mr yorongar, was beaten and wounded? i met him in chad and i met him again this afternoon when he showed me evidence of the treatment he has been receiving in a paris hospital. all these questions must be answered and accounted for. that is our demand and it is the demand of the people of chad. (applause)
mr president, this is an unnecessary and undesirable urgency debate. certainly it is premature, as mr dary said. it was initiated by the bonino radicals and was based on erroneous and tendentious accusations against the egyptian justice system. in the process of discussions between the groups we elicited the facts, which even they had to agree. the result is that the proposed compromise resolution says virtually nothing more than could be required of any of our own member states, that is, that freedom and human rights are fundamental to democracy. despite this, the authors of this motion have been peddling shameful and unfounded accusations in their speeches. however, commissioner, there is one question i wish to ask you and i would like an unequivocal response, if that is possible. paragraph 4 of this resolution expresses our support for the khaldun centre for democracy and requires the commission to continue its financial support for this organisation and its activities. my question is this: is the commission wholly satisfied that the khaldun centre for democracy has properly managed and accounted for its funds and, more particularly, the european union funds it receives? that is one of the this case. if ‘yes’, i shall be pleased to support paragraph 4. if ‘no’ or ‘perhaps no’, i believe we should vote against paragraph 4 until we are satisfied, and also vote against the resolution as a whole if it still contains paragraph 4. an answer please, commissioner.
mr president, on tuesday, mohamed al-'owhali was sentenced to life imprisonment in new york for the nairobi us embassy bombing, whilst his boss, osama bin laden, is given sanctuary by the taliban as an islamic hero of afghanistan. this country is now so extreme and medieval that paper bags are banned in case they contain pulped versions of the koran and women are veiled, segregated from men and unable to work at all. even chess and the flying of kites have been banned as un-islamic, though there are many islamic scholars who would contest such interpretations of the koran. indeed the rules imposed by the taliban would appear to derive less from the koran than from the tribal customs dependent on a view that sees women's value as essentially procreative and economic alone. until recently the focus has been on ensuring that muslims behave in accordance with islam. however, in march, following a takeover of the taliban by a hard-line faction linked to bin laden, the extraordinarily beautiful 5th-century buddhist statues in bamiyan were destroyed with dynamite. now echoes of nazi germany are heard as hindus, many tens of thousands of whom i represent as a community in london, are required to identify themselves visibly in public with a yellow cloth. i am not suggesting that direct intervention in the country which defied the red army is either appropriate or feasible. moreover, intervention in the internal affairs of other states by outsiders can often exacerbate and prolong a conflict, as may have happened in the balkans. it may be that we simply have to wait for things to burn themselves out. nor should it be forgotten that there is peace of a kind in most of afghanistan now. however, the taliban should be left in no doubt that, should they want our help, they will have to listen to the widespread concerns of people around the world, who are shocked and horrified at the brutal character of their medieval regime.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
- doc. b5-0426/2001 by mr olivier dupuis and others, on behalf of the tdi group, on the situation in nepal; - b5-0428/2001 by mr gerard collins, on behalf of the uen group, on the consequences of the massacre of the royal family in nepal; - b5-0435/2001 by mr reinhold messner and others, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on nepal; - b5-0443/2001 by mr luigi vinci, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the situation in nepal; - b5-0460/2001 by mr thomas mann and mr charles tannock, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on nepal;
commission. – the commission is dismayed by the dramatic events that are shaking nepal. it understands the state of shock of the nepalese people at the deaths of a beloved monarch, symbol of unity and continuity, and of many members of the royal family. as of today the situation remains volatile. it is still too early to assess the impact of the palace killings on the stability of the country and to predict whether events will take a disastrous turn or endanger democracy. this development took place against an already turbulent situation in nepal in recent months, as a consequence of political paralysis and the constant threat from the maoist insurgents. the european messages of condolence therefore particularly emphasise the need to preserve democracy – a democracy that has been a remarkable achievement of the kingdom of nepal and of the late king birendra. the commission will monitor future developments with the utmost attention to make sure that all parties act in respect for democratic principles and human rights, in conformity with the basic provisions of article 1 of the ec-nepal cooperation agreement. in this context the commission deplores the arrest of three nepalese editors of the kantipur newspaper. as you know, the commission has consistently supported nepal in its quest for social and economic development. the ec has granted eur 160 million in cooperation assistance since 1977, and the current rate is around eur 50 million a year. our commitment stands firm. we are also ready to bring to our cooperation a new dimension, taking into specific account aspects of governance. however, in the present circumstances we believe it is necessary for the dust to settle before proceeding with any further concrete action. in answer to the issue raised by a number of you whether the commission will set up a delegation in kathmandu, i am happy to tell you that there is in preparation a commission communication on the external service, which will cover the situation of new delegations and which will deal with this particular issue. it should be published before the summer break.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
- the following motions for resolutions are requested for joint debate: - b5-0432/2001 by mrs maes and others, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on angola; - b5-0444/2001 by mr miranda and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the situation in angola; - b5-0445/2001 by mr ribeiro e castro, on behalf of the uen group, on the situation in angola - peacebuilding in a civil society; - b5-0453/2001 by mr van den bos, on behalf of the eldr group, on the situation in angola; - b5-0461/2001 by mr coelho and mr cunha, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in angola; - b5-0470/2001 by mr soares and others, on behalf of the pse group, on the situation in angola.
commission. – mr president, honourable members, the commission is very concerned at the continuation of war in angola, especially given the recent upsurge in attacks on civilians as well as the continued suffering of the 3-4 million citizens affected by the renewed war since 1998. as established in the common position adopted on 11-12 june 2001 by the european union, the commission remains committed to supporting initiatives contributing to a political solution to the angolan conflict. it seeks to promote the strengthening of democratic institutions and the improvement of human rights, the rule of law and justice, and a more transparent management of public finances. the commission encourages political dialogue within the terms of the lusaka accords to overcome the conflict and expresses the hope that the recent declarations by president dos santos, inviting mr savimbi to set a date for his movement to end the war, will result in a dialogue for peace and national reconciliation. the commission expresses its grave concern at the lack of safe access for relief agencies to people in need. the commission's strategy of assistance is delivery of a flexible package of emergency and rehabilitation assistance according to the changing requirements, as well as the creation of conditions which enable structural development actions to be undertaken. i should inform parliament that the level of eco-interventions in 2001 is expected to rise to a similar level as in the year 2000, which is in fact eur 52 million.
- the joint debate is closed and we conclude the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0180/2001) by mrs gonzález álvarez, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a council decision establishing a community mechanism for the coordination of civil protection interventions in the event of an emergency (com (2000) 593 - c5-0543/2000 - 2000/0248 (cns)).
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. first of all, i would like to thank parliament, and in particular you, madam president, as rapporteur, and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and the committee on budgets for the excellent and constructive work they have done on this dossier. i do not think it is necessary to recall in detail the many natural, technological and environmental disasters of recent years. you have just mentioned one, madam president, which has caused the most serious damage in several member states and in neighbouring countries. the european citizens have clearly expressed their concerns and have also indicated that they expect concrete action from the community to ensure effective protection in the event of an emergency. the commission has also been called upon to take initiatives in this area by parliament in a number of resolutions. the commission proposal of 27 september last year provides for the establishment of a community procedure for emergency response to natural, technological and environmental disasters within and outside the european union. the aim is to improve and coordinate the response of the member states to such major disasters, including nuclear and environmental disasters, and to provide immediate assistance where the capacity of a single country is insufficient. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one, and it is a new one, and it is a new one. the main improvements are: the establishment of a monitoring and information centre as an operational tool for the implementation of the decision; the establishment of a database on the capacities of the member states in the field of serums and vaccines or other vital medical resources; the emphasis on the importance of assistance to the isolated and peripheral regions of the union; the use of new technologies, including those of communication and warning systems and systems for the exchange of information, as well as satellite technologies for the purposes of the procedure and the proper reference to the protection of cultural heritage. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. firstly, the reference to the humanitarian aid component in amendment no 12. this amendment could lead to some confusion and a certain risk of overlap with the echo programme. the commission wishes to avoid this and therefore rejects this proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution of the seas. these are amendments nos 1 and 13. the term 'intentional marine pollution' is not, i believe, the correct and appropriate term here. because intentional pollution of the ocean does not trigger quick action; the need for rapid action depends on the nature of the pollution or the nature of the disaster. the role and tasks of the monitoring and information centre will be defined in detail. this concerns in part amendments nos 5, 14 and 16. the commission must reject application 17. the references to the monitoring and information centre are a constructive contribution. however, some of the wording is misleading and should therefore be revised or deleted. the centre should be a tool for the commission and the member states, not an actor. so, to sum up again, the commission supports amendments nos 3, 6, 9, 10, 11, 15, 18, 23, 25, 27, 31, 35, 36, 38 to 41. it supports in principle 11 amendments, but some editorial adjustments are necessary. these are motions for resolutions nos 4, 7, 19, 22, 24, 26, 30, 32 to 34 and 37. the commission partially supports motions for resolutions nos 5, 8, 13, 14, 16, 21 and 45. the commission cannot accept requests 1, 2, 12, 17, 20, 28, 29, 42 to 44 and 46. in conclusion, i would like to emphasize that our proposal has gained in quality thanks to the contribution and support of parliament. i am confident that the improvements will help save more lives in the future and reduce the damage caused by natural and technological disasters, as well as nuclear and environmental disasters.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0143/2001) by mrs redondo jiménez, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council directive on community measures for the control of classical swine fever (com (2000) 462 - c5-0493/2000 - 2000/0214 (cns)).
mr president, this is a comprehensive report and i congratulate mrs redondo for the great deal of work that she has put into it. the house might be interested to know that mrs redondo very kindly accepted my invitation to come to london during the formulation of this report to take evidence from representatives of the uk pig industry and senior officials from the national farmers union and the ministry of agriculture. we happened to be in one of those meetings on tuesday 20 february this year, the very day the first outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in the uk was reported. as you can well imagine, this brought our meeting to an abrupt halt. indeed, it is partly because of foot-and-mouth disease that i wish to direct my remarks to the question of feeding catering waste or pigswill to pigs. i know that my colleagues from germany and austria have serious reservations about the proposal to ban such material from being fed to pigs throughout the eu. as mrs redondo has just said, amendment no 33 seeks to permit controlled swill feeding, subject to stringent exceptional arrangements, if it can be guaranteed that the pathogens which cause epizootic diseases have been destroyed by treatment. amendment no 37 seeks to achieve a similar objective. i would ask the house to reject both these amendments this evening. in the uk we had stringent controls of swill feeding in place. we ensured that pig farmers only used the most appropriate and up-to-date equipment for boiling catering waste to the correct temperature to destroy all pathogens and we ensured that regular inspections of the farms using such equipment were carried out. of course you cannot legislate for human behaviour, however. it now seems almost certain that infected catering waste was delivered to a farm in the north-east of england, which for whatever reason, was not properly treated, or perhaps was not treated at all. this simple error, whether deliberate or just a mistake, has led to the destruction of over six million animals in the united kingdom and tens of thousands of animals in ireland, the netherlands and france. we have now banned swill in the uk entirely. i urge the house to do the same across the whole of the eu.
mr president, may i add my congratulations to the rapporteur for a very welcome report. swine fever, like foot-and-mouth, does re-emerge from time to time in different member states throughout the european union. unfortunately, the only way of controlling it, at the moment, is by large-scale slaughter of animals, many of which are free from disease. to date, we have not been able, as has already been said, to develop a marker vaccine capable of controlling the disease. i find it very hard in this modern day and age to understand why we have not made greater progress. you need only look at everything we have at our disposal, and at the costs incurred in this senseless slaughter of thousands of innocent animals. we heard this week that in the united kingdom for every one proven case of foot-and-mouth, animals have been slaughtered on five or six farms around that case. the cost, not only to the exchequer and to the european union, but the real cost of the loss of these animals, is enormous. the agriculture industry certainly does not need anymore bad publicity and i support mr stevenson's position on the amendments put forward by mr mulder. it is all very well to speak of stringent controls, but you cannot guard against human failure. you cannot prevent a failure by a single individual and it only takes one person not to follow those controls and the feeding of swill creates a real problem as seems to have been the case in the united kingdom with foot-and-mouth. i understand that it will be very difficult and take time to secure agreement between all the parties involved – our trade partners and everyone else. but we must begin and we must put down a marker now. we must never again go through what we have just witnessed, be it with swine fever or with foot-and-mouth. there has to be a better way. the people of the european union are demanding this. many farmers demand that there has to be a better method of control. it is incumbent upon us to find a better way rather than witness the senseless slaughter we have recently seen. no one can convince me that we have got it right at present. i do not believe we have. we have made mistakes and we should recognise those mistakes and put those mistakes right sooner, rather than later.
mr president, i am sure that you will now be able to confirm with considerable relief that a large number of cases pending before the legal affairs committee about the immunity of members will now lapse. (laughter)
i note that mr holmes is leader of the uk independence party. i wonder whether that means that the uk independence party is now transferring in its entirety, or at least the two members who are present here, to the other group.
madam president, i should like to endorse mr dupuis' remarks about not calling macedonia "fyrom" and to recommend that the whole of parliament align its practice with the dutch text of this week's agenda which lists the council and the commission statements on wednesday morning as being about "macedonia", whereas the english text says "fyrom". mr dupuis is quite right. how can we expect a country to have an identity when it is called by an acronym? let us please put an end to this nonsense.
madam president, this report relates to the joint text approved by the conciliation committee, and it is therefore far too late to affect the course of this directive – not that a single or group of meps could do that anyway. nevertheless i will take this opportunity to put on record my party's opposition to this measure. in so doing i must point out a few home truths to this house, even though i know these will be unpopular with the institution, which prefers to live in its own world, totally detached from reality. first, although this measure aims to remove distortions in the internal market, it is fair to say that there is no such thing as a community market in the resale of artists' work. there is in fact a major market in the uk – mainly in london – and very little else in europe. therefore, the major effect would be not so much to distort as to disrupt the uk market. the net result of this will be to drive the trade elsewhere: to japan, switzerland and the united states, none of which countries will have the same concern for eu-based artists as the london market. secondly, such money as is collected will invariably go to the wrong people. seventy per cent of the 'droit de suite' funds collected in france in 1996 went not to the artists but to the descendants of seven artists, including the relatives of matisse and picasso. this does not exactly conform with the images of helping the struggling artist. thirdly, the law itself is cumbersome and will add considerably to the costs of art markets by adding a tier of bureaucracy and expense. many small firms will be excluded from low-value sales altogether, limiting the opportunities for new and aspiring artists to market their works. instead of helping artists, this will hinder them, and there will be fewer small firms left in business. who will then buy the works of unknown artists? altogether this is an ill-conceived, irrational and ultimately unnecessary piece of legislation. the legislation itself will be the instrument which creates distortions in an otherwise satisfactory market. as is so often the case, parliament and the european union should leave things alone.
mr president, we, the british conservative meps, are not happy with this proposal. we believe it is not necessary for the completion of the single market. in practice we do not believe it will help financially those who need it most. indeed, there is some evidence it may actually make them worse off, as my colleague mr karas pointed out. it is going to drive a significant part of the contemporary art market out of the eu to geneva and new york, and that will cost jobs in the trade itself and in supporting industries. those jobs are our jobs – europe's jobs – and our businesses. on balance, we believe it will damage rather than enhance europe's economy and the position of its working artists. moreover, it will make a global agreement on 'droit de suite' less rather than more likely because there is no incentive for the beneficiaries of this agreement – new york and geneva – to strike a deal with the european union. in short, we believe it is an ill-conceived project which is against the best interests of europe in general and the single market in particular.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr rothley, very much for the painstaking work that he continues to do on behalf of citizens and motorists throughout europe in filling gaps in their insurance cover. insurance has to be as foolproof as we can possibly make it, because that is what consumers expect. many of us have dealt with constituency cases, because of problems or loopholes in insurance cover. i welcome this proposal from mr rothley on behalf of our group, and particularly thank him because he has accepted a number of suggestions that i have made to him in this area and added them to his report. i just want to mention two areas specifically this evening. the first is an important provision that not only benefits citizens, but also encourages in a practical way the development of the single market. currently, if european citizens wish to go and buy a new car in another country, they have to get special insurance cover for the period when they pick up the car from the dealership or the factory and bring it back to their own home country. their current home insurer is not allowed to provide that cover. in mr rothley's proposals, they will be able to do that simply and easily. cover can be extended for 30 days to encourage citizens to go and exercise their rights in a single market and shop across borders. that is something which the commission, particularly the internal market commissioner, mr bolkestein, will be pleased to support. the second issue, mentioned briefly by mrs gebhardt, concerns cover provided for citizens who take up temporary positions in other eu-member states, such as students moving to a university wishing to take a car with them; workers on secondment or members of families moving to another country for a temporary period. they will be able to take their car and its existing insurance cover for a period of up to 12 months, without any problems. that is important. we know from complaints received, certainly in my case, from uk citizens that it has not been easy for insurance companies to provide such cover. again, this is of practical benefit enabling citizens to exercise their rights in the internal market. in conclusion, i would like to say to commissioner bolkestein that i hope he will accept this proposal from mr rothley on behalf of parliament and move as quickly as possible to bring these changes into effect in the form of further revisions to the motor insurance directive.
mr president, firstly i want to make it absolutely clear that i have every sympathy with what our rapporteur wishes to achieve in taking forward this proposal. as we have often noted before, motor vehicle accidents unfortunately touch the lives of far too many of our citizens as mobility across europe grows. the fourth directive made great strides in dealing with these problems. however, i want to concentrate on the fact that the proposal "requires" member states to implement in their national law the provisions relating to an improved compensation procedure. in essence, we have created a preferential system for european motor accident claims and therefore, logically, it makes sense to give those who experience an accident in a purely national context the same advantages. logically, yes, but does this way forward respect subsidiarity? i am afraid not and this is an important point. i have therefore retabled an amendment to make this merely a recommendation to member states. the point is that the issues raised here are a matter for national private civil law. it would involve substantial changes in tort law in england and wales, for example. we would be putting motor vehicle accident victims in a class apart. what about the victims of medical negligence, industrial injury or any other type of claim against insurers? at present our committee is looking carefully at the harmonisation of civil law. in that respect we have been rightly critical of a piecemeal approach, improperly researched. i merely wish to make the point today that this proposal does, and must, involve a much bigger debate with tremendous implications for our respective systems of civil law. it deserves proper and transparent treatment.
rapporteur. – mr president, i was struck today by an article in the wall street journal; the subtitle read: "why do america and europe differ on the importance of consumer interests?" it went on to say, from a us point of view: "when it comes to putting the consumer at the center of its economic model, europe remains stubbornly old-fashioned." e-commerce, of all types, still lags behind in europe. by 2005, 11% of us retail sales will be online, only 6+% in western europe. our hope must be that this commission initiative for a european extra-judicial network will help build consumer e-confidence and force those european figures up. these were the problems that we wrestled with during the passage of the brussels regulation: how to allow europe's consumers access to cross-border justice without over-burdening business and yet, at the same time, exposing business to necessary competitive forces. we must be clear that this is an attempt to deal with a large number of low-value cross-border consumer disputes, outside the normal legal system. alternative means that almost replace the lower end of our traditional court systems will be introduced. this is a very ambitious project, and such an exercise needs to be seriously undertaken and properly funded. one of my greatest concerns about this initiative is its funding, both substantively and in terms of its publicity. our citizens know where their local courts are, but will they know how or where to access the eej net? from what i have seen, i am not over-optimistic. secondly, is the system coherent and efficient? at the moment, progress is very variable in the different member states. the commission must get tough in this respect, hence our suggestion of a service-level agreement with each clearing-house. only such an arrangement will ensure that our citizens get the service that they really deserve. this brings me to the amendments. we can happily accept amendments nos 2 and 3, but we have grave concerns about amendment no 1. not to allow the clearing-houses to give legal advice flies in the face of reality. some of the centres already operating as euroguichets, have trained lawyers on their staff. they could not function without that. we cannot offer our citizens a second-rate service. good legal advice, or knowledge, at the outset of a claim is essential if it is not to veer off in the wrong direction, causing aggravation, disappointment and denial of justice. lastly, let us turn to the legislative method, adr and the eej net, are examples of soft law or co-regulation. if this is the way of the future, it is important that parliament be fully involved from start to finish. for example, most of us would applaud the other sectoral initiative in this field, the fin net dealing with financial services for instance, but when was this initiative referred to parliament? if we are replacing or enhancing our legal system and access to justice, these issues are key to civil society and they cannot and must not be tackled without the input of democratically elected members.
mr president, we welcome this report so deftly piloted through parliament by mrs wallis because, in the brave new world of e-commerce, there is going to be the same share of crooks and mountebanks as in the non-digital environment. for this reason consumer protection matters at least as much. it comes in two forms. first, it provides legal protection, and, secondly, it provides a means of enforcing that protection. clearly, especially as regards small claims across international borders – in other words, between different legal systems – conventional court systems will be of limited real help, as mrs wallis has just pointed out. hence we welcome this initiative to create a user-friendly, extra-judicial network across europe. indeed we believe it should go beyond the physical limits of the union since the net is no respecter of national boundaries. as is so often the case, the devil lies in the detail. we look forward to seeing that detail and wish its progress well.
mr president, mrs wallis' report is an important contribution to the debate on community policy on out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes. i also commend her recommendations to this house, and indeed share her concerns. we all know from our own experience that lengthy and costly litigation through the courts is losing its appeal as a means to resolve disputes. the notion that most people want judges, well-dressed lawyers and fine courtrooms as a setting to resolve their disputes is no longer correct. people with problems, like people with pains, want relief and they want it as quickly and as inexpensively as possible. the success of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms is beginning to create a cultural shift away from traditional litigation. in a recent case in the uk, an eleven-month trial running into millions of pounds was replaced and resolved by mediation in a matter of days. we see examples of this across europe. but if the single market is to grow, then we need to make it easier for consumers to shop across borders with greater confidence. this will only happen if consumers can buy goods and services and be confident and secure that if problems arise they can be resolved easily. not in the first instance in court where the average cost for a cross-border case is eur 2 500 and it takes between 23 and 29 months to resolve. in reality, we know that consumers are not encouraged to shop on the internet outside their own member state and that national consumer organisations – including in my own member state – are not advising consumers to go down this route because it is fraught with difficulties. my own personal experience with internet shopping has not inspired me with e-confidence. after purchasing cds from a renowned high street store, namely hmv, i received an incomplete order with a promise of further delivery. most reputable shopping sites ensure that money is not taken from an account. two months on i have still to receive outstanding items and my visa card has been debited the full amount. yet the value of these items is small and court redress would be costly and nonsensical. consumers are also increasingly tempted to buy even more expensive items across borders, like washing machines, fridges, financial services and cars. adr is a valuable way to access justice providing services and remedies which are appropriate to the cost of the item. but it is not the panacea to all consumer disputes. the consumer must still have the right to go to court as a last resort. in the absence of an agreement directly with the trader or the trading site, the consumer should be encouraged to look at the benefits of adrs. it is vital, as mrs wallis, has said, that the consumer is aware and informed of this option. in my own member state, citizens advice bureaux are acting as a clearing-house. consumers who make claims have, therefore, a local point of access and information. this is vital. for consumers in the uk there is an even bigger bonus as a by-product of boosting confidence in crossborder shopping on the internet. we can shop in a larger market and often buy goods up to a third cheaper. this has to be a benefit in what we call "rip-off britain", by driving down high prices in our own over-priced internal home market.
mr president, i very much appreciate the commissioner's statement. i believe we are all agreed that the forthcoming icao general assembly meeting is going to be a key one as far as aviation and environment are concerned. as mr sterckx has said, i was the rapporteur for parliament's response to the commission's proposals on air transport and the environment last year. you may recall that parliament put a very strong emphasis on the need for a positive outcome from this icao meeting. we said, crucially, that if icao did not deliver what we need then the eu will have to seriously consider adopting its own complementary measures to ensure that environmental concerns are more properly integrated into the aviation industry. let us recall just two key points of the context of those discussions. first, air transport is growing at a phenomenal rate, with global passenger numbers due to double in less than 20 years' time. secondly, the current policy framework artificially subsidises aviation and therefore stimulates this growth still further. aviation fuel is not taxed, it is not subject to vat and it is not covered by the kyoto protocol. so what does parliament expect from this icao meeting? on noise reduction: at the cape working group meetings over the past few weeks and months the eu has proposed phasing out chapter 3 planes and upgrading chapter 4. that is a minimum requirement: to try to reach the target of noise reduction of, at best, –14 dba, but at the very least, –10 dba reduction at source. if icao cannot do that, we will need to look at differentiation, as the commissioner has said, in introducing operational restrictions on chapter 3 at a number of noise-sensitive airports. but the eu may also need to look at introducing an aircraft noise limitation directive in order to achieve that reduction of, at the very least, 10 dba, in recognition of the particular problems of a densely populated area like the eu. on emissions, we need concrete and efficient measures to reduce aircraft emissions, including not only voluntary measures but also emissions-related levies. aircraft should fulfil ambitious but feasible emission reduction targets. if icao will not deliver then the eu will have to develop its own emission limits. i very much regret that we are not able to have a parliamentary resolution on this subject. i believe a strong message from this parliament could have strengthened the negotiating hand of the council and commission at icao. i hope that both council and commission will hear very strongly the strength of feeling which is shared by all groups in the european parliament on this subject and seek to get the best possible deal in september. but if such a deal cannot be struck, they must come back to parliament so that we can work together to ensure that the eu's own treaty commitments and obligations on integrating the environment into all areas of policy can take proper effect in the field of aviation.
mr president, i should like to apologise for coming in late; this debate has proceeded rather quickly but i have listened to what the commissioner said elsewhere. what she said did not appear very clear or precise at all in terms of the situation as it stands. i find that disappointing. we gave you a brief in march 2000. we expect you to stick to the brief or to come back and tell us something different. we need to know what progress you have made with that brief. we need to know what you are doing about it. we need to know what progress has been made on noise emissions, gaseous emissions, and indeed on fuel economy. successful negotiation requires preparation and hard work. we need to know that is being done and we need to hear from you that it is being done. we need you to go out there and tell the americans very clearly that noise and gaseous emissions from aircraft are a serious problem in europe, a more serious problem than in the usa because we are a smaller place and we have a different infrastructure. the projected growth of air traffic demands is clearly an issue that requires action now. we need you to stick to your brief. we will be watching very closely. but essentially we need our commissioner to stand up for europe, to stand up for europe and its industry, to stand up for europe and its environment and to stand up for europe and its people. we expect you do it. let us hope that you can say something further at the end of the debate that will reassure me.
mr president, if i could echo other colleagues from all parties and indeed national groups who have said that the time for talking is now perilously short. we all, commissioner, whilst saluting the way in which you have maintained your negotiating position, expect you to tell us that it is not indefinite – and neither is your patience. you have a mandate from every party and group in this house to tackle the problem of the increasing pollution of the skies and the damage to the lives of those who live around airports as a result of the current situation. there is a belief still that the endless expansion of air traffic is an unmitigated good, that everyone gains from it. they do not. there are social limits to growth and to how much we can enjoy even something as life expanding and enhancing as travel. we heard many threats and some bluster from the united states last year, when it looked as though hushkitted aircraft and chapter 3 planes would be leaving our skies, perhaps in the year 2002. but europe as a whole suffers problems, particularly those who live around airports who suffer not only noise pollution, but also aircraft emission pollution with consequences for the environment. we must see the beginning of change. in the east midlands of the united kingdom, where i live, a number of small new airports are coming into being. many of them are desperate to compete with 'through-the-night' traffic. this means air traffic using older aircraft, which are going to stagger on for another few years, if they are allowed to, with few controls on how they operate. obviously, that is something on which the member states can act. unless there is a framework for taking older aircraft out of service, we will never have the degree of control we need. i join with other colleagues who have spoken. mrs lucas put it very lucidly for us all – in saying that if there is a failure to agree in september we should not just leave the matter there and agree that we tried and failed. this house does not want the commissioner to fail, we want her to succeed. if we are telling her so rather bluntly, it is in a friendly spirit.
madam president, as many other colleagues have said, one of the most worrying aspects of the violence at göteborg is that it detracted from the action of many people who were there to demonstrate peacefully so as to make their legitimate concerns known to government leaders. the violence overshadowed the real message that came from the genuine demonstrators outside the summit, which was that people want to be more involved in this process of building the europe of the future. they want to take part in a real public debate. the post-nice process and the convention are crucial in ensuring that genuine democratic reform can be achieved and that european citizens can play a part in that. we welcome the commitment that was made in göteborg to move ahead with accession negotiations so that the newest member states can take part in the 2004 elections. we also welcome the establishment of a european sustainable development strategy, albeit a much watered-down version of that originally presented by the commission, which had contained ambitious targets and concrete measures. sustainable development is about people: their economic and social needs as well as environmental conservation. putting this into practice has huge implications. we cannot go on plundering our natural resources and then look to science and technology to try and mend the damage. we need a new approach. mr persson referred to the importance of establishing the processes. the cardiff european summit in 1998 adopted what is referred to as the "cardiff process", integrating environmental considerations into all areas of eu policy as the first step towards sustainable development. göteborg did not provide the next major step in practical terms, after the cardiff process, but the important link is there and the strategy can be built upon. hopefully we will see this happen and will see progress in the spring summits from now on. this is essential if the eu is to make a major contribution to the rio+10 world summit in 2002. another welcome decision at göteborg was the plan to ratify the kyoto protocol, even without the usa, before the rio+10 conference. this will send a very clear message, not only to the united states, but also to the rest of the world, about our commitment to this goal and our determination to combat climate change.
mr president, i, too, would like to congratulate the swedish presidency on a very successful first presidency of the union. notwithstanding that a handful of extremist demonstrators tried to spoil it in göteborg, we will ultimately look back on solid achievements under your presidency of the council. i say the words "presidency of the council" advisedly because it is not, of course, the presidency of the union. every institution has its own president. we have mrs fontaine, the commission has mr prodi, the council has a member state government by rotation. there is actually no such thing as a presidency of the union, yet every presidency often presents itself as the president of the union. this contributes to a feeling in public opinion that puts too much weight on the presidency. expectations are raised too high. but when you take over the presidency you are not assuming executive office, you are taking the chairmanship of one of the institutions with an inherited agenda for a very short period of time, and people expect too much of it. that is why there are sometimes disappointments at the end of the presidency. less so this time – and that is because you have done so well – but i would advise future presidencies not to build themselves up into something that they are not, and to get down to the solid work that is necessary for what that post really means. your greatest success has been in accelerating the enlargement negotiations and it now looks as though all the candidate countries except romania and bulgaria could well be in by the time of the next european elections. that means that this parliament will have at least 732 members, possibly more. it will be many more if there is any slippage in that timetable, because any country that has not signed its accession treaty by the beginning of 2004, but comes in during the next parliament, will have its meps added on top of the 732. that is going to cause huge administrative and financial problems for this parliament. we will do our best to deal with that, but i suspect that, if there are problems, we will get the blame in public opinion for a decision that was taken by the governments. none of this is of course the fault of the swedish presidency. on the contrary, the acceleration of the enlargement negotiations should help in that respect. but it is something that all member states, and all of us, should bear in mind as we move to the convention to prepare the next intergovernmental conference. i hope that it will be a proper convention, and that the next intergovernmental conference is not prepared by the usual small group of foreign policy advisers, but by a wider representative body.
mr president, like mr jarzembowski, i wish to refer to the transport issue. i read with concern in the conclusions to the göteborg summit in particular that the commission is to proceed with its plans to propose a framework to ensure that "by 2004 the price of using different modes of transport better reflects costs to society". this clearly reflects the principle of infrastructure charging which has been promoted by the commission since the publication in july 1998 of its white paper on fair and efficient pricing in transport, subsequently approved in the costa neves report, which parliament approved in january. these proposals are anything but fair and efficient, especially as far as road transport is concerned. the commission's own research shows, for example, that the per kilometre cost of running a car in the uk under infrastructure charging would increase by 97% by 2005. surely we have learned some lessons from the fuel price protests which brought many member states to a standstill last autumn. road users are already being forced to pay through the nose to subsidise other forms of transport, in particular the united kingdom, and the commission's proposals will only aggravate this. despite several years of study and consultation, even the so-called "experts" within this field admit that the science involved in so-called social marginal costing – the process by which these charges are set – is untested and uncertain. charging people off the road will not encourage the general public to change their travel habits, it will merely provoke widespread dissent and anger. the road user should not be the target of a witch hunt. member states should be free to set their own tax regimes and decide their own priorities for infrastructure charging and improvements. i urge every member of this parliament to acknowledge the horrendous impact this would have and encourage them to join me in opposing any such proposals every step of the way.
mr president, i witnessed the violence at göteborg. to me it symbolised the growing distance between the leaders and the led. i regret that the summit came to the conclusion that it should set aside the irish referendum result and proceed with business as usual. the referendum in ireland gave us an opportunity to sit back and think about the way in which europe develops. the purpose, apparently, of the nice treaty was to provide for the enlargement of the european union to include the new democracies. it is the paramount duty of all politicians in europe to achieve that as soon as possible. however, i disagree with the president of the commission, who wrote in the wall street journal last week that nice was essential for enlargement. nice is not essential for enlargement. we could, within the accession treaties, make the necessary adjustment to qmv, voting rights, the number of meps and so on, for each country which accedes to the european union. we should take this chance now of providing for the peoples of europe, represented by their national mps and by their members of the european parliament, by establishing not a convention, but a parliamentary conference. that parliamentary conference should prepare the ground for the next intergovernmental conference. above all, it should begin to identify the sort of choices that europe needs to make for the future in the economy, social policy, the environment, transport, and the budget – the sort of europe that the two great political families, the centre left and centre right of politics in europe, actually look for. that would provide, at the european elections of 2004, a real choice between the proposals of the centre left and the proposals of the centre right. that would make the european elections meaningful and would actually accord with the views of most people in this house that the business-as-usual approach, the top-down approach, cannot be sustained any longer.
mr president, as chairman of parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, may i thank all concerned who were involved in achieving a result on this directive. i would like to thank the presidency for its work, and the european commission and commissioner bolkestein in particular who acted as a facilitator. thanks also to all my colleagues on parliament's delegation who went through numerous tortuous meetings and lost a night's sleep in luxembourg trying to achieve this result. also, i must thank the rapporteur, mr lehne, who throughout conducted a robust defence of the european parliament's position and his own views. the result of the delegation's considerations is before us today and we have to adopt or reject the joint text agreed in luxembourg on 6 june. this power of rejection or acceptance is a power granted to the european parliament under the amsterdam treaty. the commission and council have been working for 12 years to achieve rules and safeguards that are acceptable across all member states. they achieved this only to find that the european parliament took a different stance on a number of issues and articles. fifteen amendments in parliament's second reading were not acceptable to the council. on 29 may, we reached agreement on 8 amendments, leaving three major areas of contention: defensive measures, squeeze-out and minority shareholders and the level playing field. squeeze-out and minority shareholders have been the subject of a commission declaration, and a group of company law experts is being set up to look at the overall situation – including the equitable price. also, we had difficulties with the council on employee rights to information. on all these issues, parliament's delegation made strong representations to the council in the negotiations and won many concessions. indeed, from most points of view, it could and would be assumed that the negotiations were a success. however, article 9 and amendments nos 20 and 17, in particular, remained a point of fundamental difference. the history is therefore important in this case. fifteen member states reached common accord and a common position, along with the commission. that meant that there were two european institutions in agreement whilst the european parliament took a different position. one member state then withdrew from the common position – the first time this has ever happened. the council was then in the position of being unable to concede anything to parliament by way of negotiation on these matters. had it done so, all 14 member states would have felt cheated, having already conceded much to achieve a common position. for one member state to achieve something, having withdrawn from the common position, would have caused the council great difficulty in future negotiations. therefore, parliament's delegation was in a very difficult position. i say to parliament that the delegation itself was divided on the main issue, and that is not a happy position for the chairman of a delegation. the european parliament had already made its decision clear, and what it wanted was to achieve a directive. we had to take a decision. a vote in the delegation was necessary and that vote was achieved. we had the minimum majority required to approve the negotiation with the council, and indeed had the support of the chairman of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. my own position as chairman was made clear and well understood. while fighting for the powers of the european parliament, it would have been wrong for half of the delegation to have rejected this directive one late night in luxembourg, without the full parliament having the opportunity of the third reading we are having today. the real issue is whether managers of companies are in control or whether shareholders that own the company should decide. in other words: one man, one vote. today we have a third reading and, tomorrow, a vote to accept or reject this proposal. i recommend that the european parliament accept the outcome of this negotiation, otherwise we will do serious damage to europe's future economic development. we might also do serious damage to the european parliament, as the european press seems to be totally opposed, along with the council and the commission, to what we want to achieve.
mr president, i wish to begin by paying tribute to mr provan's chairmanship of parliament's conciliation committee. he did a marvellous job in very difficult circumstances. i should like to say, on behalf of the eldr group, that we are fully and undividedly behind the agreement reached in conciliation and will vote accordingly. most of the reasons have been well rehearsed before and we have heard some of them again this morning. this directive is crucial, indeed critical, to the financial services action plan. therefore if we are genuinely interested in the competitiveness and good functioning of europe's economy, we have to proceed with this directive. my group believes that it is in the long-term interests of europe's citizens. i want us to consider the interests of those we are really trying to protect with this directive, namely the minority shareholders, so that we can begin to secure investment and ownership in enterprises across europe. it is now beginning to be the case, and will increasingly be so in future, that many of those investors are europe's citizens investing for their future, savings and pensions. recent events have shown that citizens are becoming increasingly frustrated with the inability of politicians to deal with the effects of globalisation and other aspects of corporate life. for example it seems quite possible that a group of motivated shareholders may be beginning to achieve an about-turn on the projected building of the ilisu dam in turkey. shareholders can act against the wall street sharks. shareholders are property owners; they have rights and responsibilities which can be exercised in many ways this house would wish to endorse. shareholders will often also be employees. the conciliation result represents a substantial compromise. this directive has the potential to be the means to allow our citizens to be investors in the future of europe's enterprise and to secure the health and vitality of our economy.
mr president, it is a privilege to have the opportunity of taking part in this debate. as one of the majority at the conciliation group in luxembourg on 5 june, my primary motive in voting was to ensure that parliament would have the chance to vote on this third reading. it would have been a scandal if, at 1 a.m. in luxembourg on 5 june, 15 of us had voted it down and prevented parliament having this debate. we can assure all those visiting this house today that there will not be a more important decision affecting the well-being of industry in europe than this one. my group will have a free vote on it and i believe others will as well. we will, as individual members of parliament, stand by our consciences on this issue at tomorrow's vital vote. sometimes i feel i am living in a looking glass land when i hear that all sorts of disastrous takeovers will occur if the directive is carried. members must remember that takeovers will go on in all events. the issue is whether we have a common set of norms in europe which govern us all. will we have a single basic law for takeovers or will we let the chaos continue? mr lehne makes a powerful point about the damage that can be done by golden shares, about the unfairness of the absence of a level playing field. we will not move closer to a level playing field by throwing out this directive. that will make it impossible over the next decade to get anywhere near a level playing field. we must, therefore, move forward on this occasion. it would be shocking not to do so. it will probably take four years, if we carry this tomorrow, before it comes into effect. trade unionists and employees of companies throughout europe will still have to wait four years to get what mr medina ortega already regards as not enough. but they have far less at the moment. if the directive goes through, the board of a bidding or offeree company will have to declare its hand at the time of the bid. it will have to declare its intentions in regard to jobs and the location of work. the trade unions or other employees' representatives will have the right to comment on that before the offeree company comes to a decision. the shareholders of the offeree company will need to know what the view of the employees is. none of this is law at the moment. we are about to deprive people of something of vital importance, unless we carry this!
mr president, i should like to start by acknowledging the work which mr lehne has put into this report, even though i have not always agreed with him. when publicly listed companies are subject to possible takeovers they should be able to take defensive measures, but when management acts it must behave even-handedly towards all shareholders in any one class. that must be included in the rules. if that does not happen, the integrity of the market is eroded. that leads to an unwillingness of capital to invest and thus under-capitalisation, and hence under-performance of europe's economy. in turn, pension funds will not be able to secure proper retirement provision for their members and the currency will weaken. this conciliation has seen 15 new provisions introduced into the common position, so it cannot be maintained seriously that parliament's rights have been trampled on. to claim that could undermine our credibility in the future when we may have real cause for concern. the principle of having a takeover directive has been supported at first and second readings and now, after 12 years, we have a final agreed text. in this parliament we frequently complain that we are unfairly perceived as immature and irresponsible, and hence disregarded. let us now prove these critics wrong and vote for the conciliation. it is one which most commentators and all but one european country, germany – a country which i normally hold in esteem but which welched on a unanimously agreed position of the council – support. this, as mr maccormick very lucidly pointed out, is the first step towards creating a single market in corporate ownership. it is an integral component of the single market and is in the interests of all europe's citizens.
mr president, the job parliament has here today is quite simple: to adopt or reject the compromise achieved in conciliation. what did we achieve in conciliation? out of 15 amendments tabled in second reading, compromises were reached on 11. in this house we have a duty to deal with the facts, not to listen to the jungle drums beating from misinformed sources. i welcome the changes in amendments, made by my own political group, to recognise the legitimate interests of employees in a takeover bid. here the common text has been modified from a requirement to provide new information to a requirement to provide information to employees at three points in the directive: in article 6(1), article 6(2) and article 9(1d). there are minimum standards. there is nothing to prevent boards of companies or member states going further than the requirements in this directive, nor does it prejudice obligations to inform and consult under either national or eu directives. we can only, in conciliation, go as far as amendments allow us in second reading. no amendments were tabled requiring the board of a company to consult prior to a takeover bid. it is no secret that article 9, and the right of boards to take defensive action without shareholder approval, was the bone of contention in conciliation. but is simply not true to state that the board of a company faced with a hostile takeover cannot take action or is obliged to remain neutral or passive. defensive and frustrating action is possible with shareholder approval. indeed, our amendments to the common position mean that a board can get fast-track approval in 14 days. i have always believed that politics is the art of the possible. in conciliation the council and the commission stuck to their key objective in this directive, of protecting the minority shareholders, protecting the interests of investors and defending shareholders against unscrupulous directors and inefficient company boards. article 9 and restrictions on frustrating action was the holy grail of this text. therefore we had no scope to rewrite it to allow unapproved poison pill action. but we did achieve a deal on article 9: we forced the commission and the council to freeze the article and to have a group of company law experts to examine key issues, and to come back to parliament in march 2002. this also includes – as the commissioner can confirm – the possibility of reviewing article 9 in the light of the findings of that group. the entry into force of this directive is therefore postponed and member states can postpone compliance with article 9 until 2006. my delegation will vote for this directive.
mr president, on a point of order. commissioner bolkestein has just joined a long list of his colleagues who have been subjected to a procedure in this parliament which is no longer acceptable. he was making an important speech to a full house but the only people listening were members of the public and our electorate in the gallery. i insist that this matter now be referred to the bureau and that, as of september, we see no further repetition. (applause)we are all guilty of talking. we can, of course, all listen to the commissioner through our headphones. however, if this parliament is not conscious of the image it portrays to the public, then it should be. so, as of september, however it may be done – perhaps you could let off a siren at ear-piercing levels – the commissioner should be heard, like any other speaker in this chamber, in dignity and silence. (applause)
mr president, on a point of order. i wish to draw your attention to rule 22(3), which states that: "the bureau shall take decisions on matters relating to the conduct of sittings". it is a bureau responsibility and i ask the bureau to take its responsibilities seriously.
in writing. - although mr zimmerling's report on the right of succession for the author of a work of art was improved during the conciliation, it remains open to improvement. it has usefully raised to 3000 euros the threshold above which authors can claim a right of succession but, even if the big art galleries and auction houses are in favour of it, as their work volume is reduced, this does not change anything for unknown contemporary artists. to temper this, he introduces a six-year derogation for the implementation of the directive, but my fear as an mep for the london constituency is that our world-renowned auction houses, such as sotheby's, christies and phillips, may use this time to move outside the eu to geneva, monaco and new york, causing job losses in london. this will have an impact both on the staff employed and, indirectly, on related businesses such as framers and art insurance specialists. that is why i voted against this measure, which seems to be aimed solely at creating a level playing field between french sales outlets which have been using this concept for a long time.
in writing. - i support the report by my socialist colleague, willi rothley, who calls for a new motor insurance directive to improve legal protection for accident victims. our citizens have the right to equal legal treatment wherever they are in the european union. every year, thousands of people cross the continent to vacation. the summer workers who leave bolton for barcelona must be protected by law. the general objective of the directive, which is to ensure a high and consistent level of legal protection, is extremely important. i wholeheartedly support the call for a better procedure for compensation in the event of an accident in interstate road transport, requiring insurers to make an offer or to state the reasons why they cannot make an offer within three months of receiving a claim. clear and rapid decisions are the best way to reassure victims of the outcome of their complaint. the report also proposes to introduce a single minimum coverage of eur 2 000 000 throughout the european union, which can be adjusted regularly on the basis of the inflation rate. the minimum amounts insured are obsolete and the proposed amount is much more realistic. the summer holidaymakers will not be the only ones to benefit from this new directive. this measure will also give confidence to people who buy vehicles in foreign countries. insurers must be able to insure for a maximum of 30 days any person wishing to buy a vehicle registered in a member state for re-registration in the member state where he has his permanent residence. citizens must have more confidence in the legal aspects of road safety in the european union so that they can travel freely from one country to another without fear of paying exorbitant fees and facing 15 intimidating legal systems. only by improving legal protection for accident victims will citizens be able to make the most of the opportunity to travel in the eu by car and to make the most of the freedom of movement.
mr president, given the time constraints and also the feeling in my group that the ecb has essentially been doing a good job in difficult circumstances, i would like to concentrate on some remaining structural issues concerning communications and accountability. as mr duisenberg will remember, parliament has repeatedly adopted a transparency package advocating five separate measures to increase transparency. i am delighted to report that the ecb has so far agreed three of them, and we must give them credit for this. we have had no problems in the committee on economic and monetary affairs in inviting members of the governing council to appear before us. last year, we had eleven such appearances. secondly, the ecb began to publish regular forecasts or, as they prefer to call them, "projections" in the december 2000 monthly bulletin, and that was a very welcome development. in addition, econometric models are now published in the working paper series. it would be nice if they were in more user-friendly form, for example, on cd-rom, but there is progress. the two remaining measures that parliament is again calling for are a publication of a "beige book" setting out conditions in each member state and publication of summary minutes giving the views for and against interest rate changes. in addition, this year we are asking the ecb governing council to deal with a specific problem it has faced in a couple of recent interest rate changes. there was confusion in the markets about what was perceived as an unpredictable decision and the marketplace was clearly not prepared for that decision. indeed, some people went as far as to say it was arbitrary, so we are calling for the publication of votes on an anonymous basis.
mr president, mr maaten's report makes constructive suggestions for the imminent introduction of euro coins and notes in the 12-member euro zone and refers also to the low level of public and small business awareness of certain aspects of the changeover. in particular in the report i support the comments on the need for frontloading the general public with notes and coins. i also welcome its emphasis on the role of local and regional public administrations in the changeover. it is essential that every effort is made to ensure that this so-called flagship event is managed effectively and that the changeover is smooth. most of my comments, however, are based on a view from the outside, from scotland, for the time being part of the uk. there may be some problems with public awareness within the euro zone, but we have a much bigger problem within scotland and the rest of the uk. a scots newspaper this week published a survey of public attitudes to the euro in scotland and this showed a lamentable lack of awareness, which was directly linked to a low level of enthusiasm for the currency. the level of awareness in scotland may be lamentable but it is not surprising given the attitudes of the political leaders in the scots and uk governments in recent years. the new labour london government has been afraid to show support for uk entry, or even to provide factual information, while the conservatives have simply shown an almost deranged hostility to the euro and have attempted to mislead the public on the implications of joining. in principle my party favours the euro subject to entry terms suiting scotland's economy and after a referendum, but ideally as an snp member i would like to see scotland an independent eu member state being in a position to make the decision based on scots priorities, while retaining domestic control over taxation. in the short term, though outwith the euro zone, there is also a substantial need for factual information campaigning on the implications after 2002 in our relationship with the euro zone, whether we ever decide to join or not. i welcome recent statements from some high street retailers in scotland that they will be accepting euros in their tills, alongside sterling, from 2002. this can only enhance scotland's position as a welcoming tourist and business travel destination, as well as familiarising scots with the euro notes and coins. i call on the uk and the scots governments to encourage the process of public information and to seek the support of the european central bank and the european commission in encouraging scots businesses to gear up for the acceptance of the new coins and notes.
president of the european central bank. – mr president, i shall try to answer some of the points raised by members. i have already addressed in my introductory statement the most important ones contained in the two resolutions. i wish to add some points. mrs randzio-plath asked about the secondary objective in the treaty. it is our strong belief that if the ecb is successful in maintaining price stability, and thereby creating an environment of predictable stability for entrepreneurs, that is the best contribution that the ecb can make to fostering growth of output and employment. should the european parliament be involved, if the treaty is ever changed, in the appointment of the executive board? that is an issue the executive board should stay out of. however, the european parliament is already involved in appointing members of the executive board in the same way as the governing council of the ecb is involved. on a proposal by the ministers of finance, the european parliament and the governing council of the ecb, parliament can offer advice so as to enable the heads of state and the council to reach a decision. i fully agree that monetary policy should work not in isolation but in ever closer coordination. however, the ecb will never engage in coordination of our policies with other policies in the economic and financial field, because this would prejudice our primary objective under the treaty, namely to preserve price stability. many points were made about the resolution. i have already addressed some of them in my introductory statement. i am grateful to mrs peijs and mr von wogau for their support on various points, namely the guarantee of the independence of the central bank. i say to both mrs berès and mrs randzio-plath, that in no way – and they already know it – would the ecb shy away from a dialogue with the european parliament or its committees. that has been proven in the past and we will continue to prove it in the future. mrs peijs asked the obvious question: can you stay? the answer i always give, and give again, is "yes". she also pleaded for cross-border transfers to be as costly or as cheap as domestic transfers. i agree with her completely. it may take a little longer than 1 january 2002 to achieve it. however, i believe that in a single market with a single currency, the distinction should disappear, but it may take some time. i turn to the important subject of frontloading, which has been mentioned by mr maaten in his draft resolution and by many other members. specific questions have been asked: is it possible or advisable to change the automatic teller machines a few days earlier than 1 january 2002. the answer is "no". that would seriously damage the payments system at the busiest time of the year, namely the last few days of december. the automatic teller machines must still be able to distribute national currencies. if they were disabled for that purpose, the payments system would be seriously damaged. it has to be remembered that between 70% and 80% of total bank note distribution is through automatic teller machines. it is also important because we too see the potential for problems arising. it is important that the machines are converted as soon as possible. in five countries the old automatic teller machines will have been converted by 1 january. that applies to the netherlands, germany, belgium, ireland and luxembourg. in other countries it may take a little while longer, but that is mainly due to the fact that some of these machines are in very remote areas which are not serviced every day, for example in finland and spain. it will take a little longer there but in the majority of countries the conversion will take place within one week. in five countries it will occur within one day. mr maaten also asked in his resolution for some priority to be given to the dispersal of small eur 5 and eur 10 bank notes in automatic teller machines. this point is well covered in the national changeover scenarios. apart from finland, in all other countries it is envisaged to dispense, at least in some of the automatic teller machines, the eur 5 and eur 10 notes exclusively via atms in the first few days of next year. there are in place fuller steps that could be taken to smooth the changeover, for example establishing temporary exchange points, for instance in supermarkets. we encourage that. in countries where welfare payments are still largely paid in cash we encourage the use of lower denomination bank notes. we are encouraging banks to open their counters on 1 january 2002. at this juncture, this is envisaged in austria, germany, luxembourg and the netherlands. we urge other countries to consider the same measures as well. in its resolution the european parliament has also made various suggestions. i will not comment on all of them but the european parliament also suggests what i just said, namely encouraging banks to open their counters on 1 january, a point which is fully welcomed and supported by the ecb. it has been suggested that the date of the annual sales should be changed, postponing them by a few weeks. the ecb is neutral on this point, but i see the merits in it. lower fees for credit cards and other electronic means of payment have been mentioned. this is currently envisaged in austria, belgium and finland. here, too, the ecb, because of the nature of the subject, is neutral but i would encourage national authorities to listen carefully to the european parliament. returning to the questions that have been asked, i would say that instead of frontloading, our information campaign, as it develops from 30 august onwards and intensifies over the months to come until the end of this year and in the first couple of weeks of next year, will be such that the public at large will, i am sure, be fully familiar by 1 january, with how the bank notes will look with their security features. one element of this campaign is that, in the first or second week of december, we will distribute 300 million leaflets to every citizen of the euro area, fully describing the new bank notes and the procedures of the cash changeover. mr maaten asked a question which amused me: "what if, in the last few days ministers do change their minds and do nevertheless start frontloading bank notes?" with all due respect, not only to mr maaten but also to the ministers, the ministers cannot take such a decision because in the treaty they have handed over the competence for the issue of bank notes to their national central banks and the ecb. only the ecb, the eurosystem, can decide when the bank notes will be distributed and that will be on 1 january 2002.
the commission is aware of the fact that the european central bank has been the subject of a number of complaints in the past. i shall refer mainly to mr maaten's report, since i agree with the comments made by mr duisenberg on mrs randzio-plath's report. first of all, i would like to remind you that access to coin kits is not limited to one per person. i agree with the decisions taken by the various countries. a higher number is available in each country. president duisenberg referred to frontloading (early distribution of small denomination banknotes) at atms and cash desks. i would just like to make a comment to say that the commission report you have referred to is simply a report to calculate how long it would take, according to the amounts currently being provided through atms, to replace the national currency completely with the european currency. it is a static analysis, which therefore assumes that there will be no acceleration in the use of this money, nor does it take account of sources other than atms. in any case, i would like to remind you that the existence of transitional periods is justified precisely because the whole operation cannot be carried out from day one. as regards the reductions, the commission's position is that they should be delayed for two weeks in order to avoid coinciding with the actual time of the introduction of coins and banknotes. however, this is a national decision which must be taken by each member state. a comment on the risk of price increases on the occasion of the changeover to the euro: the commission has reflected on this issue and considers that the key element to avoid the use of the changeover to the euro as a moment to increase prices is the dual indication of prices in national currency and in community currency. of course, we have also insisted on other measures, such as behaviour in public administrations, rounding down their charges or, in any case, maintaining the principle of neutrality. some of the commission's positions were accepted by the eurogroup, which issued a statement on 4 june containing these points. i would also like to point out - in response to some of the comments that have been made - that the period of double indication of prices should in principle be limited to the first half of next year and that from that point onwards the double indication should disappear. the practical messages for citizens which you put forward in the information campaigns can be introduced through the collaboration which parliament maintains with the consultative group on the practical aspects of the changeover to the euro, in which the various persons responsible for the national campaigns participate. i would like to make one comment on electronic payments: the commission has tried to ensure that, in the context of the changeover to the euro, european banking federations and associations can make progress in reducing costs in electronic payments, but we have not been able to achieve any positive results in this area. both the commission and the european central bank are committed to further reducing the costs of crossborder operations. we are aware that this is not an easy operation and that the differential treatment between national and crossborder payments may cause some discrepancies with the internal market rules. the commission is examining possible actions to facilitate and accelerate this process of reducing crossborder costs as much as possible. the next 1 january will mark a milestone in the history of european integration. the whole world will be watching what happens in europe. i am convinced that the institutions, the member states and the central banks will be able to rise to the occasion and i would like to thank parliament once again for the cooperation it is giving us in all the preparations for the process of switching from national currencies to the euro.
- the next item is the report (a5-0220/2001) by mr karas, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the activities of institutions for occupational retirement provision (com (2000) 507 - c5-0596/2000 - 2000/0260 (cod)).
mr president, i should like, first of all, to welcome some visitors from kent who we are fortunate enough to have in the gallery today. i would also like to thank mr karas for all the very hard work he has done on a very difficult report. we have to bear in mind that what we are creating here is an optional scheme for companies and financial service providers to take advantage of if they want to. if we do not create an attractive framework, this directive will be a dead letter because no one will use it. if we overload this directive with prescriptive detail, with centralising details, it will not reflect the diversity of pension arrangements across the eu and, again, we will not have people taking up the opportunities provided by the directive. so where would we lose out if companies decided that they were not going to bother to use this directive? we would lose out largely on the prudent investor principle. a european commission survey recently said that, had we used this principle across the european union over the last 15 years, our pension funds would probably have performed at least twice as well as they have in fact performed. private sector estimates put the increase in the return on savings that could result from using the prudent investment principle at up to 3%. pension assets could be around 21% larger across the european union if we had been using the prudent investor principle already. what we have here is the potential for increased return on savings without increased risk. that is a very real and practical benefit to the people who elected us to serve in this house on their behalf. that is a benefit that we should not throw away by piling into this directive overly prescriptive details, for example, on authorisation, on biometric risk, on guarantees. we need to take a pragmatic approach in order to gain those benefits of an increased return for our savers in a first attempt at defusing the pensions time-bomb.
mr president, i will be brief in saying that my group had two fundamental objectives in dealing with this proposal from the commission. the first is to support the commission as far as possible in its effort to keep it simple and not to include unnecessary complications such as biometric risk. the compromise which mr karas has engineered in parliament is one that we can live with. we would have preferred to have the original commission proposal in its simplicity, but i recognise the considerable political difficulties which mr karas faced and thank him for his efforts in engineering that. the second key objective of my group was to stiffen the resolve of the commission, to be more liberal and more 'market opening' in its approach to the abolition of quantitative rules. the commission's draft directive envisages that member states will be able to continue to set quantitative limits on the operation of pension funds. i am delighted that parliament looks as if it is going to insist that there is a five-year time limit. i very much hope that the commissioner abandons any attempt at realpolitik, involving dirty compromises in the council, and sticks to what is parliament's clear desire. we want to ensure that pensioners have high returns without any additional lack of security, applying the prudent person principle. those are the two key objectives for us and if we manage to get them voted in parliament tomorrow, this legislation will lay the ground rules for a vast growth in private pensions in the union. it will improve the investment returns to existing pension schemes and thereby improve pensions. it will establish, for the first time, a pan-european investor base for growing and integrated euro-area financial markets.
- the debate is closed until 9 p.m.
- the agenda calls for the commission communication - supporting national strategies for safe and sustainable pensions through the open method of coordination.
commission. – today the commission has adopted a communication entitled "supporting national strategies for safe and sustainable pensions through an integrated approach". this communication is a proposal on specific objectives and working methods for cooperation in the field of pension reforms in accordance with the method of open coordination as decided upon in lisbon. over the past two years there has been a significant change in attitudes towards european cooperation, particularly in the social field. we can see a change in the attitude of those who are in charge of the national protection policies. they are now agreed in calling for an open method of coordination to be applied to pensions in the long-term future. our proposal puts this forward as a "soft" type of policy-making at european level, that is "soft" compared with legislation or with existing policies. i refer, in particular, to the coordination of economic policies. it is very clear in this communication that the new open method does not replace the existing methods. this proposal does not take away the national responsibilities of the national policy-makers. the ambition of this communication is to promote the development of an integrated approach to the challenges imposed by ageing and societal changes in the pension systems. what is the content of this communication? there are three main axes: the first one concerns the adequacy of pensions. the second one concerns financial sustainability, and the third one, the modernisation of the pension systems in response to societal change. i will expand on each of these axes. adequacy describes the fundamental social goals of pension systems in order to prevent social exclusion of older people and to give them the opportunity to maintain their living standard in old age. second is financial sustainability. in order to be achieved in a spirit of intergovernmental and intra-generational fairness throughout, this requires a high level of employment, respect for the growth and stability pact and a good regulatory framework for the private systems. the third axis concerns the modernisation of pension systems. according to this axis the pension systems have to be more compatible with the need for more flexible workforces. that means that they have to meet the needs of the new models of working organisation; they have to meet the needs of less stable families and of greater equality between men and women. it should also make them more transparent, predictable and adaptable to changing circumstances. under the heading of these three axes there are ten concrete objectives. we – and the social protection committee, which has done excellent work – are going to measure these objectives by means of indicators. it is because of the social protection committee that we have an analysis of all pension systems and the reforms that have taken place in all member states. the social protection committee, then, is working on the economic and social indicators. next year we are going to adopt these indicators in order to measure the objectives. what is the proposed procedure? how the member states meet the particular objectives is up to them and depends on national strategies. the communication suggests that the member states should submit these first national strategies by the end of summer 2002. there will be a first joint monitoring procedure during the 2003 spring european council. this report on the national strategies will be based on an integrated approach, and, politically, this is the most important element of the communication. it will be necessary to take into account, not only pension reforms in a narrow sense, but also employment policy and the management of public finances. in order to prepare these strategies, different governmental departments will have to participate and, of course, the social partners. why have an integrated approach? the need for this is based on an understanding of the interaction between pensions and other policy areas. employment strategy is one example. a successful employment strategy makes it easier to finance pensions, but pension reforms can create employment incentives. a second example is public finances. consolidating public finances today makes it easier to cope with the budgetary impact of ageing tomorrow, but insufficient control of pension expenditure could destabilise public finances. of course, there is close cooperation between the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on economic and monetary affairs. they are going to present a joint report and their contribution is crucial, but the european parliament can play an important role in this process. we wish to have your opinion on this communication and, in particular, the objectives proposed. as the commission and the belgian presidency are keen on making good progress in time for the next european council, we would be grateful if you could give this opinion before october. the more informal regular contacts between the european parliament and the social protection committee will also continue on a regular basis. some other modalities of cooperation may also be discussed, and i am open to any suggestions from parliament. in conclusion, it is politically very important that the member states are keen on this cooperation in the field of pension reform. this is one of the most sensitive and difficult reforms in all member states and that is why it is of great political importance. we believe that with this cooperation, between the commission, the european parliament and the member states, we can establish a comprehensive approach. this will be useful to the member states and help implementation of the reforms. (applause)
- i thank you, mrs diamantopoulou, for what i believe is a very important statement by the commission.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for the statement. i look forward to reading the communication. it is one of the most important debates we need to have. i have a couple of questions. there is indeed a major demographic shift under way within the union, and we must try to ensure that we retain older people in the labour market. however, there is a big problem: those older people will be the people with outdated skills. does the commissioner agree that this will lead to the revolution we have been pressing for, with a shift away from a concentration on initial education and training towards continuing training and lifelong learning? this will become essential. there are some contradictions and difficulties: for example, there is a tendency everywhere in the union to raise retirement ages, and yet at the same time there are widespread public subsidies for early retirement. is there not a danger that the finger of blame will be pointed at the union, because these difficult issues are being forced upon member states for decision at this stage?
the committee. it is clear that young people are facing this problem, and in most countries there is a risk now that future generations will not be able to enjoy the rights that present generations have. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the member states are able to take account of the situation in the community. i think that the very fact of starting this debate at european level and agreeing to work together on this problem, which now has european dimensions, is important in terms of its publicity. as regards the second question, firstly, these reports cannot be annual. they will be at longer intervals. secondly, the data used by the european commission are eurostat data and data from the national statistical offices, for which there is a lot of financial support, but there is also cooperation between the commission and governments to ensure that they all operate to the same standards. because i will agree with you that today not all national statistical services are performing the way they should, there are many gaps and there are many data that are not reliable. so what we're trying to do is to support national structures so that they operate to the same standards. the third question concerns the question of pension harmonization. i think it's really very important to be assertive and absolute. there is no possibility, no possibility of harmonizing pension systems, both for political reasons, since there is no legal basis for this, and for technical reasons, since it is absolutely impossible to homogenize, to harmonize systems which have different structures, different ways of financing and often correspond to economies with different types of organization. i am referring, of course, to the example of denmark. but what is important to stress is that, while there are these different structures, there are common problems which have to do with the demographic problem, with the new forms of employment which have to be taken into account, with the question of unemployment and with the question of the new form of family. these are common problems that are found in all countries. we also have common goals. the common objectives are sustainable pensions, the economic viability of the public and private systems and their modernisation, as i analysed in my initial intervention. our common causes and common objectives lead to a form of cooperation in which each will retain its own structures and specificities, but will work together within a more global framework.
- thank you again, commissioner, for making such an important statement this afternoon in this chamber. i am sure that all our colleagues wish you every success in this difficult matter.
commission. – the commission is aware of the importance of this project and the need for early action to ensure that the acp states will be ready and better prepared to open negotiations with the eu on economic partnership agreements from september 2002. so where do we stand today in the implementation of the project? as foreseen, the pre-qualification tendering procedure for the programme management unit was launched in june this year and the tenders will be opened on 20 july at the acp secretariat general. the committee evaluating the tenders will consist of three members designated by the acp secretariat and three members designated by the commission. this committee will decide which companies will participate in the tender for the programme management unit. i expect that this programme management unit will be in place by december this year at the latest; with some luck, a couple of weeks before. this would keep us within the original time schedule foreseen for the implementation of the project. the project will not be fully operational before the programme management unit is up and running. however, in view of the importance of some of the activities in the project in particular, the commission has taken steps to begin on an ad hoc basis to implement some of the actions foreseen in the project, and this is already going on. it includes seminars on capacity building sessions of the acp ministerial trade committee for negotiations of new, wto-compatible, trading arrangements with the eu. two sessions of this kind have taken place, one in johannesburg on 10 and 11 april 2001 and a second one in brussels on 13 and 14 may. secondly, a seminar was organised at the second meeting of the heads of acp organisations working on regional integration on 3 and 4 may this year in brussels and further seminars are scheduled to take place in the period july/september this year. so all these action-oriented seminars are actually in the process of taking place. we can either be satisfied that the preparation and implementation is on track or be disappointed and frustrated because it is such a slow track, but this has to do with more general problems, which we may not be able to take care of today. let me also say that, important and useful as these activities are, they are not, and never were, preconditions for the opening up of trade negotiations in september 2002 in accordance with the cotonou agreement. but i understand well why the question has been put.
mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner very much. the fact is, of course, that we are already more than half way through the preparatory period for these negotiations on epas, so these delays are rather difficult for the acp to deal with; they are delays that affect thousands of livelihoods in the acp and so there is deep concern. i understand the commissioner's difficulty in explaining why this has happened. i wanted to ask you specifically: is the commission prepared to be flexible about the start time, end time and terms of these negotiations?
commission. – the esdp annex of the göteborg european council conclusions sets out where the european union has got to as regards the development of a police capability for crisis management operations outside european union territory. the honourable member will recall that at the faro meeting of the european council in june last year, member states signed up to an ambitious target of 5 000 police officers for international missions to be available by 2003. preparatory work has progressed well since then. the necessary structures are being established in the council, including a police unit in the council secretariat. the esdp report to göteborg contains a police action plan, which sets out the next steps in the process. a ministerial conference will be held by the end of 2001 at which the faro commitments should be turned into specific pledges. the belgian presidency will also continue work with the police experts' group to look in more detail at the modalities for implementation of the faro commitments, particularly qualitative aspects, such as training, selection criteria and equipment. the commission is being supportive of the efforts of member states in creating this crisis management capacity, for example with the funding of training projects through the oisin programme. the commission has also become more involved over recent years in local capacity building and police reform in post-conflict situations. just to give some examples, the commission is funding major initiatives for reform in justice and home affairs, including police, in a number of balkan countries under the cards programme. in that context, the commission will take over the weu police mission in albania. the commission is also providing technical assistance and training to the police in central america, in guatemala and el salvador, as part of the implementation of peace agreements in those countries. furthermore, the commission has recently started a programme of support to police training in algeria.
i wish to thank my friend, the commissioner, whom i have always found very helpful. this was an extremely full and helpful reply. i am sure that parliament is most appreciative. one matter surprised me a little, although i will read his reply in detail to study it, and this is the police unit set up within the council. am i right in assuming that command of a police force which is sent by us actually rests in the final analysis with the council and not with the commission, even though policing is demonstrably a peacekeeping and not a military operation?
commission. – the honourable member invites me to dig deep into the soil of competence and its related terrain. the provision, deployment and management of eu police officers for external crisis management missions is a competence of the member states and the council secretariat. so a police unit has been established in the new politico-military structures in the council secretariat to carry out the detailed police action plan, which i referred to earlier, in coordination with the member states and the committee for civilian aspects of crisis management. i would not dare to trespass on what is legitimately the territory of member states, but there is a role and a responsibility for the commission. i described how we have considerable experience in the field of police training. indeed, we can make a particularly important contribution by trying to ensure that training in this area, and in others which are related to civilian crisis management, is compatible with that provided by the un. the un and the european union – the european commission – now have more experience than others in this area and it is absolutely imperative that we ensure that the training provided – whether for police officers, people running penitentiaries, justices of the peace or magistrates – is compatible and appropriate wherever their services are required. there is an important role for the commission, but it is not the role of a sixteenth member state.
will the commissioner advise me whether these policemen will be, or can be, armed and what their terms of engagement might be?
mr president, i would like to ask you to consider the question of animal testing of cosmetics and to consider this question in the context of the wto. the commission shares parliament's objective of improving animal welfare and we fully recognise that restrictions on animal testing would help to achieve this. on the other hand, the union is also obliged to guarantee a high level of health protection and to ensure that its policies are in line with its international obligations. a ban on marketing based not on the characteristics of the products but on their manufacturing process would certainly force many of our trading partners to change their policies and legislation in order to gain access to our market. that could cause some reactions. it should be noted that animal testing is still the only method available in most countries for assessing the safety of consumer products, especially cosmetics. we remain convinced that there are other methods than the ban on marketing - which is the position of parliament - to put an end to the testing of finished products and their cosmetic ingredients on animals. this is the meaning of the commission's proposal to ban animal testing within the union. it is the international acceptance of alternative testing methods which, in our view, is likely to make the most effective contribution to animal welfare. it is to move in this direction that we have committed ourselves to promoting the use of in vitro tests for cosmetics at international level, particularly within the oecd. we consider, mr purvis, to answer your question clearly, that there is a strong likelihood that the marketing ban will be challenged in the wto if it comes into force. there are many issues to be considered in this case: the extraterritoriality, the proportionality of this measure and many others. on the question of like products, the gatt panels argued that the determination of the criterion of identity of two products can be based only on the characteristics of the final product and not on the method of production. in other words, manufacturing methods and processes cannot be taken into account when deciding the question of the identity of a product. we therefore consider that there is little, if any, chance of success in the world trade organisation in defending against an attack on the identity of products. that is why we have repeatedly drawn parliament's attention to the danger of going in that direction from the point of view of respecting our international obligations, obligations which we believe should also be part of parliament's concerns. it is therefore in this perspective that our proposal should be assessed: to protect animal welfare, to guarantee a high level of health protection and to avoid legal litigation which would certainly be damaging to everyone. we consider that this situation - that is to say, rules which allow measures to be based on production methods within strict limits only - is not really very satisfactory. this is the case with the current wto legislation. that is why we want to be able to put these issues on the agenda of the next round of wto negotiations. if the existing legislation can be changed - and we want it to be clarified in that direction - all the better. in the present state of the texts, we run the risk of litigation.
i take it from you that it is very unlikely that any agreement could be reached. just a month or two ago the american ambassador to the eu stated that the cosmetics area could be the basis of one of the biggest trade disputes, putting bananas and all the others far into the shade, if it was not resolved. so i take it that you are telling us we are going down a path that could lead to near disaster. have you tried to quantify the potential for retaliation against european industry of other injured parties, and what that could mean in terms of lost jobs in europe?
the commission. - mr president, this is a subject which has been much debated and the position is clear for the central bank, the commission and the council: to be part of the euro means to comply with the conditions of the maastricht treaty. that means, basically, maintaining a period of exchange rate stability for about two years, not from any time, but logically from the moment they become members of the european union and, according to the interpretation given by the council of ministers, being part of the exchange rate mechanism of the system for a period of two years. some countries have raised the difficulty of going back from stable exchange rate systems as they have now (such as estonia with its currency board linked to the framework) and that it would mean going back to a more flexible and floating currency system to regain a stable exchange rate situation. for this reason it has been interpreted and is being officially applied that the situation of countries with currency boards, if they are linked to european currencies, is compatible with the exchange mechanism of the system, although, of course, these decisions are taken unilaterally by the countries involved. in other words, the responsibility for maintaining exchange rate stability lies with the national authorities and they will not receive any privileged treatment other than that derived from their presence in the system's exchange rate mechanism. this is the position that has been maintained and, obviously, in the opposite sense, it must be interpreted that neither the central bank nor the council nor, of course, the commission are in favour of 'euroisation' processes which have in some cases been proposed and that, in our view, in no case should it be easier to enter the euro through the false door and to benefit from the advantages of being in the euro legally to those who do not meet the criteria established for all the member states of the european union.
mr commissioner, you have primarily concentrated on the logistical and technical aspects, and you have only just begun to touch on the monetary risks that could ensue from what you call the gigantic holdings by foreigners of german marks but also presumably of other euro zone currencies. if these holders begin to get concerned about how they are going to exchange these holdings, or about what the euro is going to be, is there a risk of them moving into the dollar or other currencies and thereby destabilising the euro even more than it has been?
commission. – i must begin by saying that the commission very much welcomes the efforts of the european parliament to complete the first reading of the proposal for a directive on the activities of institutions for occupational retirement provision within such a very short timeframe. i wish to congratulate mr karas and his team for the seriousness and quality of their work. their work has been welcomed by many speakers tonight, a sign that his work is welcomed by almost everyone. mr karas' report proposes many amendments to the commission's proposal. it is quite unusual to have over 100 amendments to a proposal for a directive which contains only 20 articles. the average is five amendments per article. it is quite unusual and a sign of the complexity and sensitivity of the issue. it also confirms the importance which the european parliament has attached to that matter. the hearing organised by the committee on economic and monetary affairs on 6 february was certainly most helpful in that it collected the views of the beneficiaries, industry and supervisory authorities. i am particularly pleased to note that the european parliament agrees with the basic philosophy of the commission's proposal. that proposal seeks to achieve – as is well known – the twin objectives of, on the one hand, a high level of protection for beneficiaries and, on the other, the affordability of pensions. it establishes minimum, but nevertheless stringent prudential standards and proposes a qualitative approach to investment rules. that has been discussed by many members in this debate. these common prudential standards would permit cross-border membership of pension funds and allow an institution in one member state to manage company pension schemes in other member states. before i come to the specific amendments and give the commission's opinion on them, i should like to reply to a question put to me by mrs peijs. it concerns the transferability, or portability, of pensions. transferability must basically be governed at a national level. however, for the time being, some member states do not regulate, allow or enable the transfer of pension rights between the various providers of second pillar provision, even within their own territories. the reasons for that state of affairs are related to very complex tax, social and legal provisions. this is a crucial element that needs to be addressed to facilitate the free movement of workers within an internal market. the commission has therefore planned an initiative on the portability of pensions which we hope will be proposed before the end of the year. i should now like to give the opinion of the commission on the specific amendments. the commission can accept amendments nos 1, 4, 7 (in part), 8, 10, 16, 17, 25 (in part), 28, 55, 63, 65, 66, 82, 84, 91 and 92. the commission can also accept the spirit of amendments nos 15 (in part), 29, 33, 35 (in part), 36, 37 (in part), 38, 39, 40, 43, 46, 47, 52, 53, 54, 62, 67, 68, 69, 71, 72 (in part), 77, 78, 80, 85, 86, 87, 89, 93, 94, 95, 112 (in part), 118, 131 and 132. but the commission is regrettably not in a position to accept the other amendments which, for the most part, aim at widening the objective of the directive. the directive which the commission has proposed has a limited ambition, namely the creation of a prudential framework with stringent prudential standards to ensure security and affordability and allow for mutual recognition. the directive is not designed to interfere with the way in which member states organise their pension systems, the extent to which they wish to rely on state pensions and encourage the use of funded pension schemes, as long as the treaty rules are respected. in that regard, and in accordance with the approach taken in most other community legislation adopted in the financial services field, the directive cannot regulate the products offered by pension funds, nor can it define the precise arrangements for the payment of benefits which are often dependent on national tax, labour and social law. cover of biometric risks, in particular of longevity, is an important aspect of the fight against poverty and insecurity among elderly people. but this directive should not stipulate how and to what extent benefits ought to be paid out or which biometric risks need to be covered by the institution. those are the reasons why the commission cannot accept amendments nos 2, 3, 5, 11, 12, 18, 19, 20, 41, 48, 98, 106, 108, 114, 115, 121, 125 and 126. in the same spirit, the directive should not interfere with the way in which the member states organise the governance of pension funds. involvement of social partners in the management of a pension fund is an issue which is sometimes enshrined in national and social law. that is something that cannot be imposed in all member states by means of a directive. therefore the commission cannot accept amendments nos 6, 21, 49, 50, 61 and 101. some amendments refer to the need to tackle fiscal barriers as a necessary complement to this directive. indeed mr garcía-margallo y marfil put a question to me on that aspect of the directive. as you know, the commission has recently adopted a communication on the tax aspects which calls for the elimination of unduly restrictive or discriminatory tax rules. the tax and prudential aspects of the crossborder provision of pensions are complementary but need to be dealt with separately. that is why the commission is not in a position to accept amendments nos 30, 31, 32 and 117. the same comments could apply to the problems linked to the transferability and portability of pension rights to which i referred a little moment ago. that is a crucial aspect of the creation of an internal market for pensions and for cross-border labour mobility. i have said it before and i repeat it now. but it does entail very complex tax, social and legal considerations and that makes it impossible to cover this element under this directive. we will be speaking later on this year or early next year about the commission initiative in this respect. the commission cannot therefore accept amendments nos 7 (in part), 26, 56, 57, 58 and 74. the qualitative approach to investment and technical provisions is based on the assumption that member states must keep the option to have more detailed rules. supervisory practices and traditions widely vary from one member state to another. this restricts the degree of prudential harmonisation that can be attained. some flexibility must therefore be left to the member states to introduce more detailed requirements at national level. that is especially true as regards the calculation of technical provisions and investment. the same argument applies to the way in which supervisory authorities organise their work, especially for the registration and authorisation procedures. that is why the commission cannot accept the following amendments: nos 22, 23, 24, 25 (in part), 27, 42, 44, 45, 51, 59, 60, 64, 72 (in part), 73, 75, 76, 79, 81, 83, 88, 99, 100, 102, 103, 104, 105, 109, 110, 111, 113, 116, 123, 124, 127, 128, 129 and 130. a few amendments concern the scope of the directive. institutions that already benefit from a single market framework should not be covered by this directive, with the exception of life assurance companies for which member states must retain the option of applying this directive for their activities that are linked to pension provision. in the same way, and in order to facilitate supervision in those member states with tens of thousands of institutions, it is important for them to keep the option of excluding them from the scope of the directive, and that is why the commission cannot accept amendments nos 9, 13, 14, 15 (in part), 34, 35 (in part), 37 (in part), 107, 119, 120 and 122. finally, the directive creates the right framework for the cross-border management of pension schemes. in the case of cross-border activity, the scheme must be run in conformity with the social and labour legislation of the country where the sponsoring company is established. supervision of compliance with this law is carried out by the competent authority in the host country. moreover, to make this mutual recognition effective, an effective system of exchange of information and correct enforcement of the directive must be put in place as recommended by parliament. but this ought to be done at the initiative of the commission. those are the reasons why the commission cannot accept amendments nos 70, 90, 96, 97 and 133. i should like to conclude with the following remarks. this proposal is an essential element of the whole strategy for the sustainability of our pension systems. it allows pension funds to take full advantage of both the euro and the single market and it makes sure that these funds operate as efficiently and as safely as possible. the ball is now in the council's court. i hope that a political agreement in ecofin is achieved in the not-too-distant future. that is essential to demonstrate our political will to respect the commitments made by the european councils in lisbon and stockholm. in concluding i would once again like to thank the rapporteur, mr karas, for the excellent work he has done.
deputising for the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. – mr president, i speak in two capacities, first on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. their rapporteur, mr ripoll y martínez de bedoya, unfortunately cannot be with us this evening. the legal affairs committee approved the proposal and had no comment to make on it. secondly, speaking on behalf of my group about mr ettl's report, i would like to congratulate him on the work he has done. he has done a good job and clearly worked very hard on this. as mr ettl has said, these are largely technical updates, but still important. we have not had a revision of these directives for nearly 20 years, so we are engaging in a bit of a fine-tuning exercise to modernise and update them. like mr ettl, i will address the two simultaneously as they raise similar issues. i welcome these proposals as part of the wider financial services action plan which is so important for the future of the economy of the european union member states and could potentially deliver such great benefits to ordinary people across the european union. there will be increased competition, increased consumer choice and lower prices in financial products which the financial services action plan can deliver, if we manage to get it right. like most of that action plan, and based on ordinary single market principles, these directives too are based on the single passport system to enable insurance companies to sell across europe, so long as they comply with their own home regulations. that is a principle which is, and should remain, at the heart of the legislation we adopt in this area. i welcome this effort to update solvency margin requirements: the rules relating to the capital buffer that insurance companies are required to hold against unforeseen contingencies, particularly high claims and poor investment performance. what we are doing here is essentially a warm-up for solvency ii. the more wide-ranging reform in this area will come with solvency ii. nonetheless we need to ensure that we get the minor amendments properly sorted out before embarking on the more wide-ranging reform which we will see in the solvency ii regulation. particularly welcome are the efforts to match regulatory capital more closely with risk profile. this is a principle we have also seen operating in the proposals on capital adequacy and solvency margins in relation to bank and investment companies. the same arguments can equally well apply here in that we are encouraging prudent risk management and rewarding those that manage and reduce risk. i am pleased to see a reference to the use of external ratings removed – it was initially proposed by the rapporteur. we do not necessarily want to rule this out forever, but it is premature to introduce it in this context. it is something we should consider in relation to solvency ii, but it needs more thought and discussion before we can introduce external ratings in this context. i am pleased also that a sensible compromise was reached on early intervention powers, which could be a useful addition to the armoury of the regulators in securing proper prudential supervision. the similar compromise on future profits was also very sensible. we are going to see the use of future profits phased out over an eight- or nine-year period, which will give the industry time to adapt to the new conditions. it is important overall to make the general point that in these proposals, as well as all others we deal with on industrial and financial services, we should make every effort to ensure that they are not overly bureaucratic and that the framework is as easy as possible for firms, both large and small, to operate in. that is the only way we will get healthy competition. finally, i should like to comment on the timing. it is clear that there is general agreement that we should get on with these reforms as quickly as possible. mr ettl did a very good job in coordinating with the other two institutions. like him, i very much hope that we can sort this out at first reading. it seems to me that we may have been doing some of the council's homework for it, and tidying up some of those aspects which will contribute to a sensible regulatory framework. i thank mr ettl for the work he has done on this.
mr president, i extend my heartiest congratulations to mrs rothe for her exemplary work with colleagues in parliament as well as with the council and the commission. she and mrs ayuso gonzález have both expressed certain disappointment at the result, but i would say to mrs rothe that she should feel relief that what looked possible at one time has not come about. she has made considerable progress. it is eminently sensible to promote renewable energy because it enables us to fulfil our environmental objectives, creates jobs and ensures security of supply. the items enumerated by mrs rothe are targets, not yet mandatory. but i am pleased that we have the fall-back position should member states fail in their duty. there is a definition which excludes the use of municipal waste, gives permission for successful support mechanisms to continue and thereby boosts investor confidence. my own country, the united kingdom – the windiest country in europe – has some lessons to learn from work in other countries. we need other measures as well as this directive. i know the commissioner would agree on the need for a framework for energy support. we need research and development in the sixth framework programme. we need to look at the single market to ensure that it does not contradict the aims of this directive and we need to make sure that renewables take their full place when we consider the security of supply green paper. congratulations again to mrs rothe. i very much look forward to a positive result tomorrow.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. – mr president, the initiative to create the ".eu" domain name will be a necessary boost to expansion in the e-economy. we know that the key brake on this expansion is the lack of confidence, particularly amongst consumers. a european tld, therefore, should be synonymous with a zone of e-confidence. in addition it should allow european companies to ensure their visibility and presence on the european stage. as mrs flesch said, we have worked very closely on this report. we have jointly made some very important recommendations. they give greater clarity to the text and they spell out in detail the role the registry should perform. i have concentrated in my committee mainly on the issues of the internal market, intellectual property aspects and the general policy framework. let me highlight some of the amendments. the idea of amendment no 36 was that the registry should adopt terms and conditions to incorporate an accredited code of conduct for online trading and therefore give businesses the opportunity to join an accredited online extra-judicial dispute resolution scheme. this will respond to business concerns to see added value to ".eu" domain names and will again create this zone of e-consumer confidence in line with the lisbon conclusions. while registration should generally be on a first-come, first-served principle, we have nonetheless proposed that rightholders, who have prior rights in law and public policy, should have the opportunity to pre-register. we have tried to address the growing problem of cyber squatting by asking the registry to run a mediation and arbitration service, either free or on a cost-recovery basis to deal with speculative and abusive registration of domain names. we are proposing the setting up of a policy advisory committee, as is the practice in country domain names, to assist in dealing with what can be registered at top level. commissioner, we understand the need to make progress on the establishment of ".eu" and the need to ensure we respect the principles of the internet world, namely self-regulation and self-management. but it is important to get the principles right from the outset, to ensure success, and that is why we have spelt this out in detail. mrs flesch and i had excellent cooperation. we now look forward to similar cooperation with the council and commission. we hope they will seriously consider our recommendations, and that we can come to a speedy decision to enable ".eu" to get off to a running start as soon as possible.
mr president, on behalf of my group, i should like to give a very warm welcome to this report and to thank mrs flesch for her very comprehensive and detailed work, which shows her experience in the field. i should also like to pay particular tribute to mrs mccarthy who i have worked with in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. between our rapporteur and our draftsman, they produced a very sound report. what is important about this report is that they have resisted the temptation to complicate what was basically a simple text proposed by the commission. essentially, commissioner liikanen, the word from parliament is to go and get on with it. we do not want to over-complicate it. we have made some worthwhile improvements, but the fundamentals of what you proposed have been left unaltered. that is important because, we must remember, the ".eu" domain name is actually a late entrant into a highly competitive and crowded market. it has to justify its existence. for it to be successful we want companies and organisations to use it. therefore, the registration procedures have to be simple, easy and cost-effective. we must bear in mind that the policies and procedures adopted by the registry will need to reflect best practice in the field. because we are coming into this late, there is no excuse for not getting it right. so some of the safeguards that both mrs flesch and mrs mccarthy refer to, about protection of trademarks and avoidance of vexatious registration – cyber-squatting – are particularly important. i want to highlight two particular issues of concern that i raised during the debate and was particularly pleased were reflected in the amendments. mrs mccarthy referred to her amendment seeking to enable organisations with a prior title to a name to have a priority period of registration. that is very important. we do not want to disadvantage companies which are already active in this field which feel that they must protect themselves and want to take on the ".eu". we do not want them to feel that they are going to be held back in any way. they must have a priority period of registration to avoid this problem of vexatious registration, of people who just want to make a "quick buck" moving into that field and taking hold of that registration. it will be very important for the new registry – and i direct this particularly to the commission – that the launch date and the priority registration period are very well publicised throughout the european union so that people understand those rights. secondly, we have to ensure that the ".eu" name does not, in any way, displace existing member state domain names. i proposed an amendment, which i am pleased was accepted by my colleagues, that makes sure that the ".eu" registration is not empowered to issue any sub-domain names using member state identities. in conclusion, this is a worthwhile enhancement of the european union's information society capabilities in a very fast-evolving world.
mr president, i very much welcome the programme and priorities of the belgian presidency in the employment and social field. it is a programme essentially about the modernisation, but also about the renewal and reinforcement of the european social model, and as such it obviously strikes a positive cord with the socialist group in this house. one key element of that programme will be the work you will do to set out clearly the social goals we need to achieve in the reform of our pension systems. that, rather than a concentration on the concerns of the financial institutions, should be our proper starting point. your work should also fit well with the communication announced in parliament by commissioner diamantopoulou yesterday. in that broader field, you will be putting in place the most important building blocks for an open coordination for social protection, and we wish you well, although i was disappointed not to hear specific reference to social exclusion in that context. three specific points in the employment and labour market area: first, in relation to quality of work, it would be very useful if you could work with us in parliament to incorporate amendments on quality indicators into the employment guidelines for 2002 to jump-start the commission’s communication on that subject. second, also in relation to quality, i hope you will apply some pressure to the commission to speed up its preparation and launching of a new strategy on health and safety. the delay is unacceptable. finally, i know that you will work with us to adopt, as quickly as possible, the general framework on information and consultation and the company statute. but i also hope again that you will apply pressure to the commission to speed up its work on the revision of the european works’ council directive. that too is a very important ingredient and there is no good reason for its delay until the end of this year or the beginning of next.
mr president, ambition is a practical joke played by the gods on mankind. they give us ambitions so we believe we can climb the heights of olympus and then they ensure that we never reach the top. the programme of the belgian presidency is ambitious. it would be ambitious for a two-year presidency, but for one of 99 days, as the president-in-office has pointed out, i fear that it is too ambitious. i welcome, of course, his intention that the union should listen to the people. "we have to resolve the irish question." how often have those words been uttered down the centuries? but mr verhofstadt has to lead the council towards a resolution of the problem, posed by the failure of nice and by the irish referendum. the democratic decision of the irish people cannot be ignored or ridden roughshod over. democracy may be inconvenient, but it is all we have between freedom and tyranny. moreover, the irish referendum and the concerns exposed in the demonstrations – even though they were hijacked by extremists – should be telling us something. as the president-in-office has said: they are telling us that europe is not being listened to. people all over the union, and indeed in the global market all over the world, have lost their faith in the institutions of governance. they are looking to us, their elected representatives, not for initiatives, but for reassurance. not for change piled upon change, but for stability. not for ambition, but, for that rarest of all human virtues – common sense. if i may paraphrase the ancient greek proverb for the president-in-office: "those whom the gods wish to destroy, they first raise high."
madam president, in these circumstances, i must put to you a personal question. but if you voted on this then i will not put the question. did you vote on this matter?
madam president, the conciliation committee is of the view that the president of parliament should vote on that matter ...(mixed reactions)... and had she done so the conciliation procedure would have been sustained. i believe that is the point. (mixed reactions)
madam president, the eplp delegation voted in favour of the mergers and takeover conciliation text. while we realise that the prime objective of this directive was to protect minority shareholders’ and investors’ interests against unscrupulous directors and inefficient company boards in a takeover or merger, in conciliation we achieved the incorporation of amendments tabled by the socialist group, which meant that this directive would have recognised the legitimate interests of employees in a takeover bid. some believe that this directive did not go far enough in this direction and that there is no real genuine consultation of the workforce. let us be clear: this was a choice between no information and providing information to the workforce in the process of a takeover or merger. as a senior british trade union general secretary said, it is a significant step forward and offers a chance to build a substantial foundation. it would be wrong to oppose the directive because it does not give sufficient rights of information and consultation. this directive would have had no effect on the acquis communautaire of employment rights in the eu, or in the national member states. it was a minimum requirement. i think you agree, madam president, that parliament has not covered itself in glory with its tied result today. we will have no directive on mergers and takeovers and we will have no information and consultation with rights for workers, even though mergers and takeovers will continue to happen across the european union.
in writing. - it is with regret that i voted against the outcome of the conciliation procedure. i am aware that considerable efforts have been made to give staff greater access to information and to protect the rights of small shareholders. however, i do not think that member states have made sufficient efforts to extend the consultation of workers, and in some member states the results are a regression. i do not think we should extend the rights of some workers to the detriment of others, nor should we vote for fewer consultation rights than we want in the next directive. our approach must be consistent. now we must encourage our national governments to raise their standards to the highest possible level and not hide behind an international compromise. for small shareholders, it will take more than the proposals in this document to protect their rights against those of larger shareholders, whose legal position may require them to seek maximum return in the short term. we should not encourage this approach.
in writing. - this resolution is to be commended in many respects, particularly with regard to sustainable development. i welcome the eu's call for ratification of the kyoto protocol, which is a key international agreement for the protection of our planet. i welcome the renewed commitment to the un development aid targets and hope that they will finally be met, as it is extremely urgent that they be met. i also welcome the fact that the need for the eu to fully prepare for the world summit on sustainable development was expressed. why, then, did i abstain on the resolution as a whole? i do not believe that the development of a common security policy, which seeks to link us closely with nato, has its place in the sustainable development of the eu. nor do i think we should ask ireland to deny the recent referendum and prepare for ratification of the treaty of nice. it is a disregard for the democratically expressed wishes of the people and it does not bring any credit to this house.
in writing. - today i abstained overall on the gothenburg summit resolution and i recommended my conservative colleagues in britain to do the same for the following reason: while we fully supported the references to the favourable reception of the eu enlargement process and the calls for support for cap reform and sustainable development, we expressed a number of reservations on other aspects of the report. these include paragraph 3, which seems to suggest that the eu is not fully respecting the decision of the irish people, as a result of the referendum, to reject the treaty of nice; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft convention. paragraph 25, which supports the tax package including tax harmonisation, as well as withholding tax; paragraph 26, which recommends measures on works councils inspired by the social chapter; we have to be very careful about the way we use our money. apart from this, the report contains many positive aspects. so from the point of view of the british conservatives, abstention was the right thing to do.
in writing. - i welcome this third annual report by the president of the european central bank, mr duisenberg. however, i regret that the ecb does not follow the high standards of transparency, accountability and openness set by the bank of england. the bank of england was granted operational independence in may 1997, one of the first acts of the incoming labour government. the minutes of its monetary policy committee meetings, including votes and the reasons for votes, are now published after about six weeks. this strengthens the market's confidence in its decisions and is a shining example of open government. it is surely no coincidence that since the courageous decision of the labour government in may 1997, britain has enjoyed a period of unprecedented economic stability. it is also no coincidence that the decision of the labour government was criticised at the time by the tories, who are responsible for a sickening economy and have a telling record of economic instability and incompetence. the ecb will not enjoy the full confidence of the market unless it opens up more. the most important challenge for mr duisenberg will probably be the introduction of euro banknotes on 1 january 2002. i welcome the ecb's decision to distribute euro coins to consumers and higher value notes to businesses in advance. however, i am concerned that retailers and small and mediumsized businesses will not have smaller denominations of banknotes before the e-day. this could very well lead to unlimited chaos and confusion, which should be avoided at all costs. the practical changeover to the euro on 1 january 2002 will clearly be a crucial test for the ecb and i sincerely hope that it will rise to the challenge. i would sincerely like the ecb to pursue a policy of openness and transparency similar to that of the bank of england. it would be perverse for britain to abandon an attitude of openness to adopt an attitude of relative secrecy. this is why, if britain ever adopts the euro, the ecb must also show that it is taking a more open attitude.
mr president, i refer to rule 135(2) which says: "where an electronic vote is taken, only the numerical result of the vote shall be recorded". however, if a vote by roll call has been requested, in accordance with rule 134(2): "votes shall be recorded in the minutes of the proceedings of the sitting by political group in the alphabetical order of members’ names". would you be good enough to let us know whether the minutes tomorrow will give the accurate result of the vote as published so far? there seems to be a discrepancy between the result that came up on the board and that which has been published, the published vote being 273 in favour and 272 against. the house, and all the press downstairs ...(mixed reactions)... with all the excitement going on, would like some clarification as to what parliament’s position is. (applause)
mr president, my point of order is exactly the same as mr provan’s. i, like many members in this chamber, have looked at the official record at lunchtime today and it does say 273 for, and 272 against. if that is the official record – and that is the record that is published – then i would suggest that the result given by the president this morning is incorrect.
this is not a trivial matter. we accept the logical reason that you have given, but i have to ask you a further question. was the member who replaced mr casini indeed entitled to vote, as mr casini’s resignation was only announced on monday evening. under rule 8 of the rules of procedure, there has to be an exchange of letters between the european parliament and the italian government so that we can actually confirm his entitlement to vote and if that is the case, of course, it is a valid vote.
first of all, may i also commend mr wuori for his wide-ranging report and mr cornillet for his boldness and his vision in trying to fashion a new procedure for the annual report on fundamental rights in the eu, linked to the charter. in both reports, however, there is still cause for concern and alarm. the reality is that as we speak in this house, human rights abuses continue; human rights defenders disappear. in vietnam, for example, religious persecution continues and buddhist monks remain imprisoned and under repressive house arrest. flung san suu kyi remains imprisoned in her home in burma. the death penalty is still carried out in democracies such as the united states. in belgrade, the police stand by and watch as hooligans attack lesbians and gay people at their gay pride celebration only days after millions of eu dollars were committed to that region and milosevic was sent to the hague. egypt incarcerates 55 gay men who are still denied legal representation and now face up to eight years in prison because they are gay. women are still genitally mutilated, human beings stoned to death, their limbs chopped off in the name of law. homosexuals are stoned to death, there is religious persecution, and children are abducted into war, not to mention the obscenities of rape and terrorism, torture and false disappearances – a catalogue of almost unutterable suffering which grows year on year. in the eu, our own record on fundamental rights needs closer examination. the treatment of refugees and asylum-seekers; discrimination sometimes state-induced, against homosexuals; racism and racist murders; and inequality before the law. the same applies to applicant countries. the message we should send is that human rights are non-negotiable. so long as one individual or one group suffers discrimination, we have all failed and we are all culpable. a hierarchy of oppression is perpetuated by legislative inaction and democratic inaction. we defend some minorities but not others. when we name and shame countries, we are accused of imposing our standards. but the standards we aspire to and we set are international standards, standards by which we must all be judged. that is why we must be consistent in implementing human rights policy and systematically follow up human rights abuses. i commend the cotonou agreement, as mentioned by commissioner patten. we need to work closely with the united nations and with the special rapporteurs as well as the ngos. we must develop our own in-house expertise and ensure that men, women and children born equal are afforded their natural human rights and civil liberties. our most powerful weapon is our imagination. imagine, that is you being tortured, mutilated, imprisoned, stoned to death because you are different or hold a different opinion. imagine that it happens to your daughter, your son, your father, your mother, your brother, your sister. that is the reality and that is why we need a new approach. we need it now. we must not fail those who look to us to succeed. (applause)
we have indeed before us two massive and authoritative reports for which we are indebted to the two authors. mr wuori said, in introducing the debate, that this is about the fundamental principle of respect for human personality in all its manifestations. charters and conventions and rights seek to quantify and give exact terms to the impermissible forms of disrespect and then discountenance them everywhere. the moving section on enlargement in mr wuori’s paper reminds us that both a condition and a consequence of enlargement of the union will be to expand the recognition, enforcement and upholding of human rights throughout this continent. what could be a more welcome outcome? mr cornillet suggested that we should not take the two papers together. i think we have to. we must always remind ourselves, as we call upon others outside the union to rise to the standards of respect for persons which seem to us fundamental, that we are continually at risk ourselves of falling below the standards. last night as the echelon committee adopted its report, it made it clear that running systems of random interception of messages breaches the fundamental right to privacy in one’s personal life and communications. that must stop. those who are doing it in the united kingdom and elsewhere must be urged to put a stop to it. there are other areas, such as the right to a speedy trial, where other states are not up to the mark. we must press for rights to be recognised at home as well as abroad.
mr president, last month we witnessed the remarkable sight of bulgaria, an ex-communist country, electing the party by its former king, simeon ii, to office, having removed all legal barriers to his entry, ironically in preparation for eu membership. i have always believed that the great benefit of enlargement of eu to the east is to anchor these countries in a climate of peace, prosperity and an institutional respect for democracy and fundamental human rights. however, spare a thought for simeon’s unfortunate italian cousin, prince victor emmanuel of savoy and his son philibert, who are not only formally barred from standing from public office in their country, a founder member of the eu unlike bulgaria, but have nurtured the dream since childhood of being allowed to enter the territory of the country of which they are citizens both by birth and descent. in the past, i have spoken with concern in this house on the charter of fundamental rights with regard to the attempt to make binding its new controversial, social and economic rights, as opposed to the civil and political rights enshrined in the much respected 1950 european convention of human rights. the eu treaty right to freedom of movement and establishment also enjoys universal support, and yet is so clearly breached by italy’s 13th so-called transitional constitutional article, which exiles in perpetuity the male descendants of the house of savoy from their own country. there is no derogation afforded to italy to discriminate on the grounds of sex or birth with regard to freedom of movement of all its citizens, other on the basis of threats posed to public security or health. it is frankly ludicrous if the republic of italy feels threatened by one old man and his son wanting to return home. i therefore call once again on this house to show compassion and non-selective respect for human rights by joining me in supporting my amendment no 7 calling on the italian parliament to honour the commitment by the last government of italy to put a speedy end to this cruel and anomalous situation, and align its constitution with the right of all eu citizens to move around the union freely. i congratulate mr cornillet, in this respect, on his report in what is a very difficult area.
mr president, does a peasant suffering from aids have the right to access medicine and treatment that he cannot afford? does a child born in poverty have the human right to receive basic education and appropriate vaccines to protect him from killer diseases? does a peasant farmer devastated by natural disasters such as drought, pests and soil erosion have the right to our assistance? do millions of people living in misery for political reasons in isolated countries like palestine and iraq have any rights? what do we mean when we talk about human rights? i urge every colleague concerned with human rights to visit, unannounced and informally, any peasant in any poor country and ask him about our views on human rights, political freedom, economic freedom, religious freedom, free access to education and health services. that peasant will look at you in bewilderment and plead: "all i need is a supply of fresh water to my house. all i need is a source of energy so that i can light my house and cook the next meal". internal conflict and civil war resulting in violation of human rights will continue to impoverish the poor until we help them to do the following. firstly, to have a stake in their rural economies. they need to own their own land, their home and their farm. and secondly, to acquire the technology to break the cycle of dependency on us and seize the opportunity to be self-sufficient, self-reliant through their own local enterprise. when the poor have an economic stake, then civil society and democracy will take root. these people will see the need for law and order and political representation. then you will see the courts replacing the bullet – and that is when we will see human rights. (applause)
i welcome today’s debate and the european commission’s long-awaited communication on human rights. i particularly welcome the commitment to give real substance to the human rights clauses in our trade and partnership agreements with third countries – something we badly failed to do with mexico. i also welcome a number of the specific country statements in the draft resolution, including our strong call for the dismantling of paramilitary groups in columbia. i share our strong statement of support and solidarity for human rights organisations and defenders, who risk their lives daily in conflict situations around the world to defend principles, which we hold dear. i have three specific points i want to raise in the context of the debate. firstly, whilst i welcome the commitment in the communication to appeal to european enterprises to do more to respect human rights, reflected in paragraphs 55 and 92 of our resolution, i have to say to the commission that i am disappointed that the relex dgs appear to have opted out of the draft green paper on corporate social responsibility. i ask them to revisit that before it is too late. words should be followed by action. secondly, i welcome, and i call for wider attention to, paragraph 108, concerning human rights abuses against disabled people. the organisation disability awareness in action has recorded over 2,000 such abuses within europe and they should be dealt with by human rights monitoring organisations and by the commission. finally, i welcome paragraph 16 which calls for a review of the way we deal with human rights issues in parliament.
mr president, i apologise for my lateness. human rights seem to have been taking up quite a lot of time, and quite right too. i want to express parliament’s concern that the kyoto protocol may falter and fail, leaving the world without any coherent network of obligations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. we in the european parliament offer our full support to the commission and to the presidency in their endeavours to ensure that the kyoto protocol survives and comes into force. we would like to use this brief debate to explore what europe can do to lead the world in the absence of american leadership and in what ways the members of the european parliament who attend the bonn conference can speak for the people of europe and actively participate in the proceedings. we very much appreciate the work of the dutch minister, mr pronk, in seeking to find a way to solve the unresolved issues left over from the hague, and we would appreciate it if the commission could give us its view on how successful he has been to date and whether or not the work he has done has now cleared the way forward. but the big question for us is whether it will be possible to show that the european union, and the other major parties to the protocol, are prepared to take decisions without the united states. here the attitude of the new japanese government is crucial. without the votes of japan and canada the protocol cannot enter into force. we gather that the omens are not good and that japan probably, and canada certainly, lack the political will to go ahead without the united states. if japan is prepared to go ahead, then there is the suspicion that the japanese may want to re-write the crucial proposals within the protocol, notably using the year 2000 perhaps rather than 1990 as the base year for calculating greenhouse gas emission reductions. one of my colleagues, mr moreira da silva, who will be leading parliament’s delegation to bonn, wishes to move an oral amendment on this point to the resolution we have tabled, since the problem with japan has really only come to the fore in the period since we tabled it. our resolution reiterates in paragraph 3 our basic expectations about the action that will follow ratification of the protocol. but as europeans we must make a sober assessment of what this will mean for us if it were to happen and still more if it were to happen without the united states. first and most crucially: money. as the protocol stands, financial contributions from individual parties will be based on each party’s share of co2 emissions. it is not difficult to see that the united states, with 39% of the total 1990 emissions, would pay the lion’s share. the question that occurs to me, which should perhaps have been asked earlier, is how the clinton government ever thought it could persuade congress to sign up to the treaty. perhaps greater honesty at the outset might have helped provide a more realistic atmosphere. without the united states the burden will fall on japan, germany, the united kingdom, france, canada and australia. the finance available for measures to reduce co2 emissions in poorer countries will be greatly reduced without us participation. the strain on the europeans will be greater. are we prepared for this, i ask? secondly, if we ratify kyoto alone or without the united states it will mean taking certain actions that are going to be painful. we meps who follow these issues recognise that. every year, every month, far into the night, we deal with directives designed to reduce emissions, but we also know that in most instances when we encounter the council or their representatives it is extremely difficult to get the member states to agree to these proposals in their original, very demanding form. we now face a situation where, according to the european environment agency, only the united kingdom, germany and luxembourg reduced their greenhouse gas emissions between 1990 and 1998. all the other countries of europe increased them. so how will denmark, the netherlands, belgium, austria, finland, italy and, to a lesser extent, sweden and france, meet the kyoto targets? or will we, as the united states suspects, not be willing to take the actions that will give reality to our ambitions? we hope that the bonn conference and the belgian presidency will be able to move the europeans on from words to action. finally a word on the participation of the eu delegation in the bonn conference. we are tired of being a greek chorus in this tragedy. we are tired of coming on to stage when the main action has taken place to lament or celebrate what has happened and to offer philosophical reflections on the sad state of mankind – "οίμοι η τάλαινα" indeed! this is unsatisfactory because we should ourselves be reckoned as protagonists since we will have to adopt the legislation that will flow from kyoto and we will have to explain it to the people of europe. we may not want to be negotiators ourselves, but our ambition is to play a full part in the meetings with the european union delegation that decides how europe will act. we are not content to remain as a chorus.
i would like to start by paying tribute to commissioner wallström, the commissioner for the environment. i do not think any of the parliamentarians have any doubt at all about her passionate personal commitment towards trying to secure a positive outcome from the talks in bonn, and i would also like to say a word of thanks to my liberal colleague, prime minister verhofstadt, for the emphasis he placed this morning on saying that the problem of climate change is the greatest single challenge facing the planet. one thing that this whole issue has brought about – if it was needed – is a great awareness that this is a very small planet upon which we live and that mankind is very capable, through its industrial practices, of changing our environment. even the united states now recognises this, although they have yet to come up with an alternative in any practical form to the kyoto protocol. there are great opportunities for, and advantages in, addressing this problem by using technology which is in the process of being developed or has been developed to change our practices and reduce global warming. this offers great benefits to society, and economic opportunities for those of us who take a lead, but why are we not able to pursue this more effectively? one problem is vested interests – the classic example being the fossil fuel industries; another is weak political leadership by all of us – we are all responsible for this. we back down over taking decisions which will be unpopular in the short term with our electorates. i wish to see harmonised environmental taxation at a european level – the objective being not to raise more money but to change practices and priorities and ensure that industry at the same time is able to compete on a level playing field. we have had the problems – we have experienced the problems with fuel duty in britain and elsewhere whenever politicians try really to apply taxes which benefit the environment in this way. the odd thing of course, in britain’s case, is that harmonised energy taxation on fuel duties would also probably reduce our taxes. i have just returned from a visit to cyprus – one of the accession countries – where i find out that not only is there no fuel duty on the use of petrol but that petrol is actually subsidised. so, my question to the commission is this: when it comes to practical forms, when it comes to actually dealing with what i hope will be a positive outcome from bonn, how does the council pursue harmonised energy taxation at the same time as dealing with enlargement, which makes the possibility of unanimity so much more difficult to achieve if it we were actually to have harmonised environmental taxation of a sort which is worth having.
although some sceptics still doubt the phenomenon of global warming, nobody can doubt the cooling of relations between the eu and the us over its refusal to recommend ratification of the kyoto protocol. the intergovernmental panel on climate change has no doubt that there is global warming taking place and that greenhouse gases, in particular co2 emissions, are largely responsible. even the us national academy of sciences advising president bush largely concurs with this finding. the eu is now determined to go it alone, but the biggest culprit, the us, with 4% of the world’s population and 25% of global emissions, still will not co-operate. sadly, to date, only romania has ratified the protocol. japan and canada are now getting cold feet without us involvement. in my country, the uk, under a conservative government, we made a dash for gas, since natural gas produces far less co2 than coal. we went on to see it rapidly reversed by the new labour government, anxious to preserve jobs in the mining industry. mercifully the uk is still online to meet its kyoto commitments. we are already witnessing in european winter resorts in the mountains the effects of the rising snow line, but the long-term prospects are far more frightening. at some point, there is a danger of thermal runaway as the polar caps melt, reflect less sunshine and cause a rapid increase in atmospheric warming. this threatens flooding around the globe and other climatic changes causing economic devastation with huge migratory pressures on peoples, not to mention potential wars over water supplies. what is the solution? i believe that all nations must subscribe to policies of sustainable economic development and invest in renewable energy sources. this also means reopening the controversial nuclear power debate, which i support. we must also look at using market-based mechanisms, such as tradeable emission permits. the kyoto 5% targeted reduction by 2010 from 1990 levels may not go far enough. we may also have to look again at carbon sinks. i believe that the us must reconsider its position and come back to bonn with some really good proposals. i congratulate my colleague, mrs jackson on her continuing interest in this critical area for the future of mankind.
i heard your ruling, but annex ii to the rules of procedure says that each member may put a supplementary to any question. we have been economical. we get one answer, but we should each get a supplementary.
council. - i should like to begin by congratulating mr mayol on his arrival in this house. i can speak from experience. mr mayol, you will see that this is an absolutely extraordinary mandate, and one that is well worth it. so i wish you a fruitful, pleasant and interesting years. you'll have to work a lot, but something tells me you're not afraid of it. so, again, congratulations to you! i know a little about catalonia. i don't speak catalan, but i understand it, which is something. the problem you are raising is obviously even more complex than that of constitutional regions within the borders of a single country. you speak of a nation that is riding - if i may be so cavalier, i must say - on two countries that both attach great importance to their territorial integrity. i leave you in charge of the prospects you have opened up. on the other hand, i entirely agree with you when you say that the catalans love their nation, their language and their culture, but at the same time they are very european, very open to the outside world. we are aware that the spanish minister-president of catalonia was one of the first to launch the constitutional regions movement. i know him well and i trust him: this movement will certainly not stop and, if it does not stop, it will be managed with skill, as mr pujol and the other prime ministers are not lacking in that. i believe that the debate will move in the right direction in the years to come.
the president-in-office of the council is very receptive to the points we are making but her colleagues in the council, generally, have very little to say about subsidiarity in a way that pleases us. this is the kind of thing that makes an increasing part of the population of scotland recognise that being a member state is a much better idea than being a constitutional region. however, things standing as they do, i would ask the president-in-office if she would be prepared to discuss with colleagues the oddity of the structure of the committee of the regions which, instead of representing the regions in some proportion to their size, represents the states according to digressive proportionality. denmark, which is already a member state, has twice as many members in the committee of the regions as scotland has. even luxembourg has more! i do not know the difference between the regions of luxembourg intimately, but i dare say they are less than the difference between the regions of scotland.
council. – the debate is getting more complicated with each speaker and you will understand that i cannot possibly go into that issue. however, i do know that within the committee of the regions the representatives of municipalities, cities, provinces, and constitutional regions find it increasingly difficult to build a common platform from which to develop their action. the presiding officer of the scottish assembly is one of my very great and dear friends and so i am familiar with the problems you have referred to. however, i cannot possibly give a detailed answer to your very precise questions.
i believe that the issue of subsidiarity and its meaning in practice is central to the whole debate on the future of europe – not only in terms of the rights of nations and regions within the member states, but also in terms of citizenship. i represent wales which has a new national assembly, just two years old. it is a developing body that wants to play a full part in and have strong links with the european union and help build the europe of the future. would the minister agree that involving this kind of regional level of government is crucial in terms of developing citizenship and bringing europe closer to the people – a problem that we are all familiar with in all our constituencies. if this is something that needs to be done on a european level in order to bring europe closer to people, how will this be reflected in the work of the council?
council. – as you will appreciate, this is a real debate. in my first answer i said everything i could say as president-in-office. the rest is very much my personal point of view as a member of the belgian government. i hope that you will make this distinction, especially as this is now a more spontaneous debate, which i like very much. i believe subsidiarity is a very important notion but it is also a very difficult one because it is not very precise. it is more precisely defined in the protocol to the treaty of amsterdam than previously and is perfectly usable. the local and intermediary levels are essential in bridging the gap between citizens and authorities. these levels and authorities have a very important role to play. in light of recent developments, as in denmark and ireland, this awareness has grown and will be better taken into account than perhaps in the past.
annex iv of the nice treaty contains a declaration calling for a deeper and wider debate about the future development of the eu. it also recognises, importantly, the need to improve and to monitor the democratic legitimacy and transparency of the union and its institutions. in december 2001, the belgian presidency will be concluded by a contribution to this debate at the laeken declaration. will the laeken declaration recognise that a further democratisation of the european decision-making process calls for a more radical reform with legislative power vested in two chambers: the european parliament, and a reformed council that would subsume some aspects of the present committee of the regions and would strongly enhance the role of the constitutional regions?
i must say i think most members will think that a six-month delay is exceedingly disappointing, but it is nice to hear something positive. can you indicate to us what the possible obstacles are? does anybody have a veto on this date of 3 december or can you give us a guarantee that it is actually going to happen? you are not going to tell us at the end of the belgian presidency: i am so sorry it slipped; somebody got it in the way! can you guarantee it is going to happen or does someone have a veto?
mr president, i too want to speak about mrs haug’s report on own resources. her advice that we should go for a european tax is premature and unnecessary. she says that the belgian presidency is expected to put this forward or start a debate. i have read the notes on the work programme by the belgian presidency and there is little or no reference to it. there is only one reference to the tax on flows of speculative capital – the so-called tobin tax. that was voted down by parliament only a few months ago. at the end of the document there is also reference to direct or indirect funding of the european union, so that we can once again operate with the european union’s own resources. i put to her that the prime minister of belgium only, in the last few days, said that he does not want to pursue this path towards a european union tax because "it is sensitive". it is very much a sensitive matter and totally unnecessary. mrs haug mentions that the amount of money coming in from the nation-states through gross national product is going to rise. i accept that. i sat in the house of commons in the united kingdom for 18 years before coming into this chamber. i always thought it was marvellous that the percentage of gross national product coming into european spending was declining. that downward path has continued during the last two years. i applaud that. it shows good and effective control of spending and nation-states do not mind passing on that money to the european union. i see no reason whatsoever for the european union to raise its own direct tax. that is why i have tabled four amendments tomorrow for voting. two of those will be on a roll-call vote. you can see this evening that there is opposition from various countries. i hope that people will vote in support of my amendments and oppose the european tax.
chairman on the committee on budgets. – i feel that i need to give you some information in light of mr dover’s speech. earlier, you called mr heaton-harris to speak for the budgetary control committee and he was not here, and he is still not here. i think i know the reason why – because he is knackered or should i say ‘physically exhausted’ following a football match this afternoon between british labour members and british conservative members which the labour members won by 7 goals to 1. however, mr dover and so were also involved. you expect labour members to stand the pace! since he is here, i think mr dover should be congratulated, not for what he said, but because he is present here tonight when mr heaton-harris is not, and he is a much younger man. (mixed reactions)
on behalf of my group, i welcome the commission’s report and the rapporteur’s report. the incidents which precipitated the study and the subsequent reports in spain and in hungary have made us aware of the problems posed by mines and mine-workings, both old and new. the potential problems – particularly the problems of water pollution – are cross-boundary problems and therefore worthy of european-wide legislation. after consideration of existing legislation, be it on ippc, landfill or seveso, and in each case i have acted as the rapporteur at different stages of development of that legislation, it is clear that none of them can provide a comfortable solution to the range of problems presented by mining operations. so i would concur with the rapporteur that a new piece of legislation – some kind of new initiative – is required to regulate the mining industry in particular. i would raise two points with the rapporteur. firstly, old sites do not necessarily need to be cleaned up. many old sites are literally centuries old and have developed in such a way that they are now sites of scientific interest and contain particular flora and fauna. i would urge that we should consider preserving sites and using sites in that way rather than simply clearing them off the face of the earth at great expense. secondly, i would say that classifying mining waste as waste is very difficult when you consider that large amounts of it are simply crushed rock and quite similar to products that you would get from any quarry in the union. therefore i would say that we have to look more particularly at processed waste from mines which often contains high levels of toxic chemicals. that does require regulation. i would say that the amendment from the epp group is not particularly helpful, since it tries to reduce the scope of this directive to the mining of metal ores. from my own experience, the first tailings dams i ever saw were in derbyshire in the north of england, and they were the result of the mining of fluorospa, not a metal as any chemistry teacher will tell you. but they present exactly the same problems as tailings dams resulting from mining operations. i would recommend a positive vote tomorrow and, i hope, rapid action by the commission to implement the recommendations.
the issue of integrated coastal zone management is of crucial importance to my constituents in scotland. as the commission highlights in its proposal, this is not just a local problem, but is of critical importance for all europeans. as mrs langenhagen said, one third of eu citizens live close to, if not on, these areas. research has revealed a worrying deterioration in the environmental, socio-economic and cultural resources of our coastal zones. we see aggressive competition between users of these resources. the environmental problems include habitat destruction, water contamination, coastal erosion and resource depletion and these are all very serious. these environmental problems have a knock-on effect beyond coastal regions to inland regions. the roots of the problem include a lack of knowledge, a failure to involve stake-holders and, therefore, a lack of cooperation between the relevant administrative bodies. at a recent videoconference in scotland house, that is the home of the scottish executive in brussels, it was interesting to see how the different local authorities in the highlands and islands of scotland were already working within local partnerships with stake-holders to protect the coastal zone. it gave me great encouragement that action was being taken and that the coastal zone was being given the importance it rightly deserved. it is, after all, at local level that a real difference will be made. in conclusion, we need to encourage strong action at a local level which we are seeing already in scotland, and we need to exchange best practice across the eu in order that our coastal zones can be enjoyed as much by this generation as by the next.
mr president, as mrs stihler has already said, this proposal is of major importance for scotland. for example, there is one of our local authority areas that has 26 inhabited islands and a coastline as long as that of france. scotland, as a whole, has 462 different coastal plans in place, almost three quarters of them locally based. whilst management of coastal zones must remain predominantly local, national strategies to support and coordinate action are vital. we are fortunate in having a scottish coastal forum to perform this role. but such good work can be undermined. as the firth of clyde forum recently explained, we lack any measure of security, political or financial, which would give us a strong footing for pursuing longer-term management. that is why the commission proposal is so welcome. i congratulate mrs mckenna on the extent to which her report has amplified and clarified the text.
madam president, i warmly welcome commissioner patten's reassurance that poverty reduction will be a key issue on the g8 agenda. theoretically, the g8 governments are committed to achieving the un development targets by 2015, including universal primary education. over a year ago, at the world education forum in dakar, those same governments promised that no country serious about achieving education for all should fail for lack of resources. those are fine words, but where are the resources and where is the debt relief? the g8 should cancel now all imf and world bank debts for countries committed to those 2015 development targets. those same objectives are shared by hundreds of civil society groups across the european union, and many thousands of individuals care so much about those issues that they will travel to genoa to take part in peaceful demonstrations to draw the world's attention to the need for urgent action on these issues. may i end with the hope that the world's media will listen to them and will report their concerns and give far less attention to those tiny numbers of people who may be involved in violence, but who all too often drown out the legitimate concerns of the many thousands of peaceful, but passionate protestors. (applause)
rapporteur. – it is interesting how, in this house we move seamlessly from global economic policy and world summits to the technical regulations of exhaust and sound level emissions from recreational craft in europe: such is the broad sweep of politics dealt with in this place. i believe strongly that we must always be extremely wary in europe of over-regulation, of using 'a sledge-hammer to crack a nut', of introducing unnecessary, cumbersome and bureaucratic regulations. to put this directive into perspective, recreational craft in the eu are responsible for less than half of 1% of all exhaust emissions in the union and if it is the case that this regulation turns out to have severe impacts on small boat owners, driving them unnecessarily off the waterways, then sadly this will merely increase disenchantment with europe among many of our citizens. in my own country we have a very thriving small canal boat industry to which commissioner patten has just referred. as a former member of parliament in the west country, he will know that industry extremely well. it is composed of many historic craft, the potential for tourism is extremely great and we must be careful to ensure that they are not regulated out of existence. it consists of many small enterprises and enthusiasts. the object of this proposal is to complete the internal market and to protect the health of users and third parties in europe: those are indeed laudable aims. however, as i intimated, i do have a number of concerns about the way these regulations have been framed. first of all, on the issue of retrospectivity. in my view, retrospective laws are often extremely bad laws – they are grossly unfair to existing users and industries which have grown up under an existing regulatory framework. secondly, they very often act as a perverse incentive. for instance, under the regulations being framed in this directive, if you have an old boat with an old polluting engine, it is perfectly legal provided you do not replace it with a slightly newer possibly even cleaner engine of a greater power rating. if you do that, obviously improving the environment in the process, then you are subject to the full force of these regulations and would possibly be faced with extremely expensive compliance costs for your craft. i cannot see that regulations framed in this way benefit anybody. furthermore, it is of course extremely difficult to see how they could possibly be policed in practice without having inspectors in every boatyard, every harbour, every port, every river and every canal in europe, which we are clearly not going to do. can i also move on and say a couple of words about some of the amendments which have been proposed. i will not mention all of them (the house will be pleased to know). the socialists have tabled a proposal by mr lange which was passed by the environment committee (no 30) seeking to impose an additional second table of stricter limits for boats on drinking water lakes. i understand the raison d'être behind that proposal, but i believe that it would prove extremely problematical. very difficult to implement in practice, it would be a barrier to trade and it would completely contradict the commission's intention to harmonise the internal market which will be further fragmented. i hope the house will think very closely before supporting that amendment. the proposed limits in mr lange's amendments are extremely strict, particularly for two and four-stroke engines. they are technically very difficult to implement and the prospective benefits that are produced are not very great. i am sure that the problems presented in one or two lakes in germany and austria could be solved, but imposing these limits throughout the whole of europe where they are often unnecessary will not do that. it will result in manufacturers producing engines only for their own local markets in their own country and i would urge parliament to reject those amendments. can i also say a word about mr lange's other proposed amendment no 48 on sound level measurements. without going into the technicalities of it, the new method that he proposes would cause many problems particularly if you had an instantaneous difficulty, particularly say wave-slap, resulting in a one-off sound level measurement which would be very difficult to repeat day after day and therefore very difficult to implement in practice. this proposal could produce modest environmental benefits, but we must make sure that those modest environmental benefits do not come about at the expense at the loss of hundreds of jobs in many small enterprises across europe and the pricing of many european citizens off the waterways which they have enjoyed for many hundreds of years.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgets. – mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur. as she said, this report is important because it aims to help uprooted people, in other words, refugees, displaced persons and returnees in asia and latin america. speaking on behalf of the committee on budgets, i would like to emphasise the need to approve this programme immediately so that we do not lose the appropriations for this year. parliament has always been in favour of having a separate action for uprooted people on the basis of the unique circumstances facing them, as outlined by the rapporteur. i have some reservations about the function performed by the management committee. my opinion includes an amendment replacing the management committee with a consultative committee in order to enable the commission to exercise more adequately its responsibility for implementing the budget. one of my main concerns is that the legal base for these actions expired at the end of december 2000. i do not know why the commission left this new proposal so late, especially when we only had a one-year extension granted in 1999. i have yet to find an adequate response to that. if we want to improve the spending on this appropriation, it is not acceptable for the commission to submit each and every project to a committee. it is important that the committee should concentrate more on annual work plans and look at ex-post evaluation. finally, in these particular lines, the commission has not included a reference amount in the legislation. this is wholly justifiable as the nature of the programme dictates that any attempt to anticipate future needs will prove futile. i recommend we approve this report.
mr president, i am very pleased as shadow rapporteur to commend this report to parliament and to congratulate mrs carrilho on an excellent report. last year i was the rapporteur for this report when we extended the budget line for a few more months. i am also pleased that the commissioner is here this morning to reply to the debate because i want to talk to him about a big idea. are we not in a rather curious position? on the one hand we have asylum-seekers coming to europe and seeking help, shelter and aid and, on the other, we have displaced people living in camps in countries such as afghanistan and right throughout the world. these are the same people and we need to make that connection: the people who come here are actually the same sort of people who are living in camps. if we can help them to be resettled, then we are not only helping them fundamentally but we are also helping to alleviate a problem that is growing in europe. my big idea is nothing to do with this, however. it is about the montevideo convention. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he could envisage a new approach? after the helsinki and harare meetings we now give aid to countries on the basis of human rights, good governance and so on. yet there are 59 civil conflicts around the world creating uprooted people and many of these conflicts are about looting natural resources, greed and dictators wanting to run their show their own way. yet we all recognise each country as an equal sovereign nation. i find it very curious that on the one hand when we give aid, we treat people with a certain measure of circumspection, but when we recognise the national sovereignty of a country we apply the montevideo convention and say they are all sovereign. when the british ran the british empire, particularly the raj, they had a habit of giving gun salutes to different maharajas and rajas depending on how they behaved. it is time that we looked at how we recognise what we call national sovereignty and how we treat so-called independent nations. we need to differentiate between countries and presidents and governments that are democratic and behave in a civilised way and countries that are dictatorial or brutal. then we can give different levels of ‘gun salutes’ to the latter countries so that we do not treat everybody in the same way.
i warmly thank mrs carrilho, my friend and colleague. i did this report in the last parliament. but she has more than ably taken on and developed the work that i and mr deva have been involved in the past and i warmly thank and congratulate her on her work. i have three points that i want to make. firstly, it is important to say to the commission that we in parliament, having established this budget line, have adopted some important principles that we want to see adhered to in the way that it is implemented, strengthening our commitment to non-refoulement. there have been instances in the past where we could have been accused of complicity with forced return: it is absolutely illegal in international law and the commission must be vigilant on that. we want to ensure that this budget line is used creatively, including not just visible support for camps, clean water and so on, but the less visible help that is so critical in refugee situations including psycho-social support and counselling, support on reproductive health issues and indeed, support for refugees with disabilities. i should like to associate myself with the points made by mrs gill on comitology where that is particularly damaging to the delivery of this budget line. i suspect commissioner patten will agree with that point. secondly, i should like to reiterate to commissioner patten that the fact that the commission brought forward no money for latin america in their preliminary budget is bizarre particularly when 2.1 million displaced people exist in colombia. he is doing a lot of very good work in terms of emergency assistance there, but the safe and protected return of internally displaced people in that country is crucial and it is bizarre that they do not include that in their plans. finally, commissioner patten himself told us in parliament when he brought forward the 12-month extension that it would not be late again; he listened to our views and yet the situation has arisen again. it is important that we be seen to ensure that the reform is on track, and that means these issues being dealt with much further in advance than we are now once again seeing. i guess he is a little embarrassed by having to come at this late stage once again here today.
in writing. - the british conservatives are strong advocates of genuine human rights and have therefore voted overwhelmingly in favour of the wuori resolution. however, this resolution contains a number of elements on which many of us do not agree, including: the redefinition of human rights (paragraphs 50, 51 and 72); the unbalanced condemnations of turkey (paragraphs 88 and 89); the misunderstanding of the nature and status of the castes in india (paragraph 106, etc.); the requirement of enforceable criteria for arms exports (paragraph 113).
mr president, i have great pleasure in commending the whole of this resolution to the house. the recognition of the rights of children is of vital importance. i am glad to be able to say that 25 years ago i published an article which, at least from a certain point of view, helped in pushing forward that case. i do not want to talk about the whole motion for a resolution today, however. i want to talk about one particular problem which is dealt with in the amendment by my group. i am old enough to have children over the age of 25. i see visitors in our gallery who are about the age of 25. like many people i can just imagine what it would be like to have a child ripped from your hands at the age of 20 days and never to see them again, be yourself in prison for five years under torture and cruel treatment, and then spend the rest of your life at liberty trying to find your lost child. sara méndez from uruguay was in this parliament yesterday to press forward the case for recovering her child, or getting information about her son símon, who was ripped from her arms aged 20 days after her illegal capture in buenos aires in 1976. that is a dreadful thing to happen and we should add to this admirable motion for a resolution a clause calling upon those who are in authority in uruguay to recognise the evil of disappearances, to recognise their bounden duty to bring children back to their parents and to end this scandal and disgrace. i hope we will carry the motion for a resolution and make that point.
mr president, hutus of bantu origin form the majority tribe in burundi with a population of 6 million. the tutsis of nilotic origin are the minority tribe, but they dominate the government and the army. such tribal polarisation as we often see in africa has been a major factor in the internal conflict, not only in burundi but in neighbouring states. in 1993 burundi's hutu president was assassinated and within a month over 100,000 civilians were killed. a further 150,000 civilians have been killed since then. more than half a million are refugees in tanzania's refugee camps to this day. the democratic republic of congo has experienced similar conflict and almost 2 million civilians have been killed there or are missing over the last two to three years. in the horn, east and central africa covering 12 countries, there are 20 million displaced persons, displaced from their homes and their villages. these people were poor before. they are even poorer today. they have no education, no access to health care, no employment and no shelter. they depend totally on the world food programme for their food and they fear those who run the refugee camps where they live. it is not surprising, therefore, that these refugee camps are breeding grounds for disease, discontent and disorder. young men and women are lured by the warlords to join their unruly gangs. these innocent and desperate people, who were ordinary civilians before, probably farmers, are easily persuaded to train and be armed to support the greed and power struggle of the warlords. the lusaka and arusha peace accords have failed to end the violence and internal conflict. repatriation of refugees is not satisfactory as the people are simply afraid to return to villages devastated, overrun and terrorised by the terrorists or the warlords. how can we allow these displaced millions, these desperate refugees, to live in their camps as beggars for life. how can we extinguish the fires of conflict and civil war in these developing countries? containers full of medicines, tents, food, blankets and other such things bring temporary relief, but this is not enough. we must be more active and rethink our strategy. we must first of all give the poor a stake in their rural economies so that they may own their own land and have an opportunity to build their lives. secondly, we must give them the appropriate technology – third world technology – which they can then use to start local enterprises to break this cycle of dependency on us. we must rethink our strategy and reassess the quality of people that we have in place as our ambassadors and representatives, their experience, and see how we can perhaps use local experts with international reputation and competence to advise us, to act on our behalf, to use the limited resources that we have to its best effectiveness. we must embark on this with great urgency. i have great confidence in commissioner patten to lead this, and commissioner nielson, and i hope that they will get together and make sure that the eu's next decade is much better than the last 40 years, a period in which, i consider, much time and resources were wasted.
mr president, the conflict in the democratic republic of the congo is one of access, control and trade in key mineral resources. the wealth of the country is appealing to its greedy neighbours. all six nations involved in this conflict share responsibility for their illegal actions, as must those in other countries who have helped this profiteering. is long-term regional instability a price worth paying for short-term theft? alongside plundering, looting and racketeering by foreign armies, criminal cartels see the drc as a weak link. the united national panel of experts warns: "these criminal cartels have ramifications and connections worldwide and they represent the next serious security problem in the region". i would like to ask the commissioner what the difference is between milosevic ethnically cleansing his neighbours and african leaders looting and killing 2.5 million of their congolese neighbours? when can we see some of these leaders sitting in the dock in the hague? i see no difference between one sort of killing and another, expect that one is white and the other black. when the final united nations findings are published, the eu and the un should respond by considering freezing financial assets of rebel movements and of the leaders of criminal cartels and foreign powers that do not withdraw. we, in the centre right of parliament, want firm action to prevent the drc's destruction. the irony is that the wealth stolen from the congolese could provide the foundations for real long-term regional growth and stability. this needs african leaders to lay down their guns, however. with our historic connections with africa – particularly during the belgian presidency – there is a real opportunity for something to be done very soon.
first of all, may i take the opportunity of congratulating the rapporteur. he, like myself, has been given the great problem of trying to deal with a highly technical report and trying to find a way through. my report comes later. i want to take the opportunity to congratulate him on an excellent report. i think those of us who participate in the fisheries committee in this parliament do not always get the credit for what they achieve or indeed what the commission achieves. i have to ask the commission and indeed, we all have to ask ourselves, why is the multiannual guidance programme not being implemented? it is all very well to complain about it, but we have to ask the question 'why'? the main reason why it is not being implemented is because member states and national governments are not prepared on many occasions to find the matching funding required to bring about what is necessary to restructure an industry which we all know and agree must be restructured. until we find a way of encouraging all the member states to do this, there is no point in one member state doing it, there is no point in two or even three, four or five member states: it has to be right across the board of all member states or else you will end up with massive recriminations between member states as to who is doing what. the fact that we have not been able to give it that priority in the member states is certainly something that we all view with great concern. i would be inclined to say to the commissioner that, no matter what you call it or how you achieve it, what you should do is to take the problem, give it a good shaking, get on with it and to try and force member states to bring about the result everyone agrees is required and sort out how it will really affect the industry. we have the member states going one way, we have the commission going another way, we have scientists telling us another thing and in the middle we have fishermen and the fishing industry wondering what way they can go.
mr president, it is essential that fishing effort – and i mean effort as opposed to capacity – is matched to fishery resources. member states must also be obliged to fulfil their fleet reduction targets so i welcome the general thrust of mr busk's report. unfortunately, an amendment in committee added a reference to the cunha report and brought with it the concept of quota penalties, a proposal which is against the acquis communautaire. as the commission itself stated in this house on a previous occasion, and i quote: "the automatic reduction in quotas for non-complying countries seriously undermines the basic principle of the common fisheries policy which is that of relative stability". quota penalties are impractical as well as unjust, punishing fishermen for their member state's wrongdoing. quotas should be based on science and conservation objectives, not misused as automatic penalties. i ask therefore for a separate and split vote on paragraph 4 of this text and i urge members to reject the references to the cunha report and make sure that effective sanctions are targeted against those who are obliged to fulfil magp targets, that is, member state governments, and not fishermen.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. first of all, mr busk, i would like to thank you for your excellent report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i agree with you completely. the annual report shows that the map4 targets were far too low and that even these modest targets were only partially met. i now turn to two main demands of the report: the measurement of vessels and the sanctions for member states which do not comply with their map targets. firstly, mr busk, you are calling for clear and precise criteria for capacity assessment. the formal fact is that in 1994 we introduced a uniform definition of tonnage, valid throughout the community, by means of regulation 3259. under this regulation, member states had to submit tonnage estimates by 1995 and have until 2003 to measure all vessels in accordance with the uniform provisions and to report the actual values. however, we have only been given estimates so far and we must now gradually replace them with actual values. this means that we have to work with a mixture of real measurement data and estimates by the end of 2003. for engine power, too, there are formally harmonised definitions. however, we have problems in this area of control because the actual engine power is often higher than the declared engine power or is increased afterwards. we must put an end to this practice and the commission will organise a workshop with experts from the member states in the autumn of this year to look for solutions to this problem. but frankly, it is indeed legitimate to ask whether these two criteria, namely engine power and tonnage, are really the only possible and most appropriate criteria for correctly assessing the fishing effort of a vessel. i am in any case planning to raise this question again and to examine it in more detail in the context of the debate on the reform of the common fisheries policy. secondly, mr busk, you are calling for effective sanctions against member states which have failed to fulfil their obligations under the map4. in this connection they refer to the previous resolutions of parliament on the cunha report on the same subject. i agree with you completely. we need more effective sanctions with a corresponding effect. the most effective method so far, outside the legal system, is the freezing of public aid to the fleet. but of course this has no effect at all in those member states where no aid is granted, as is the case in the netherlands or the united kingdom. the only legal remedy for exceeding the map targets is to refer the matter to the european court of justice or to initiate infringement proceedings. but we have prepared such infringement procedures against several member states and we are going to start them now because otherwise there is no way at all of establishing more discipline here. (applause from the centre)
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
- doc. a5-0213/2001 by mr james nicholson, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 2549/2000 introducing additional technical measures to restore the cod stock in the irish sea (ices division viia) (com (2001) 165 - c5-0140/2001 - 2001/0083 (cns))
rapporteur. – mr president, i am grateful for the support i had in producing this report. as i indicated in the earlier debate, it is a technical report. sometimes it requires a bit of knowledge to get to the bottom of the problem. thanks also to the commission. to some extent we are dealing with the issue of box 7(a) in the irish sea, which has been closed off at times recently, in cooperation with the fishermen. i certainly welcome that. discussions were based on the debate about what happened in the north sea. that area was also closed when the norwegians were working on the project, and scientists came forward with new conclusions that did not affect the industry. this report also helps french fishermen. it operates in conjunction with the cod recovery plan in the irish sea. everyone accepts now that there is a problem of cod stocks. no one has been able to agree on how you work towards their recovery, however. i certainly hope this study and the proposals that come forward will, in conjunction with the fishermen, help the fishing industry, the fleet and those who actually work at sea. to a large extent this report is technical, as i have said. it involves the difference between a 4mm thick double twine that is equivalent to a 6mm thick single twine on the cod-ends on the actual net that catches the fish. i hope the scientists are right and that this improves. we all have to accept that this is about the protection of juvenile cod in the irish sea. i hope it is successful. if stocks are to recover then the juveniles have to be allowed to mature and develop if the industry is to recover. one area i am encouraged about is the fact that there is better cooperation and dialogue between the commission and those involved in the industry. that must be welcomed by everyone. we all have a part to play in this: fishermen, the member states, scientists, and the commission. each has to know where the other is coming from if we are going to succeed. everyone has to cooperate if we are to succeed. i would like the commissioner here tonight to confirm that this cooperation is working to the maximum and as well as he would wish. perhaps he could suggest ways of improving that, especially in the months ahead when, near christmas, we decide what the tacs and quotas are for those areas and are bound to face grave difficulties. the commissioner may be aware that for the last two years the irish sea has been closed at spawning time to aid stock recovery. fishermen in that area have cooperated fully, as they have this year about the north sea. do these new methods have an effect? can you tell us that the desired effect has been achieved, as far as the scientists are concerned? there is growing realism that there is a problem. but are we on the way to solving that problem? have we got the right methods and mechanisms in place to resolve it? all these new measures create extra costs, at a time when we have reduced fishing and have a fleet that is, to some extent, in financial difficulty. we seriously require support through the industry: decommissioning, a reduction in size of the fishing fleet and fishing time so that we can at least leave those left in the industry some hope of survival. i hope, commissioner, you will encourage the cooperation that is required. it has come about to achieve this technical agreement. i hope that you will encourage cooperation between your staff, scientists and those involved in the industry. that is the way forward.
can i first of all congratulate my friend and colleague, jim nicholson, on his report. technical measures to aid the recovery of cod stocks in the irish sea are of very great importance and they are of considerable consequence to fishermen in scotland who are now desperately searching for ways to rejuvenate cod stocks in the north sea. we are therefore studying the success of the measures taken in the irish sea with huge interest. fish stocks, as you know, have collapsed in the north sea, recently forcing the commission to introduce emergency measures for the first time, when they closed 40 000 sq miles to cod fishing for 12 weeks, and to introduce emergency measures to protect northern hake stocks. our once proud scottish fleet, which landed 400 000 tonnes of cod per year in scottish ports in 1970, is now limited by strict tacs and quotas to a mere 20 000 tonnes per year. the situation is no longer sustainable. the commission green paper on reform of the cfp contains proposals, which have received widespread support from the industry, for maintaining the 6- and 12-mile limits to protect in-shore fisheries, preserving the successful conservation zones such as the shetland box and maintaining the concept of relative stability to limit access to the north sea. the commission has also recommended devolving some aspects of fisheries management to zonal committees, involving key stakeholders such as fishermen and scientists in an advisory role. all of this is highly commendable and will assist in the process of stock recovery and juvenile recruitment. it is also necessary, however, as the rapporteur has pointed out, to introduce a wide range of technical measures such as mesh sizes. for this reason alone, i am alarmed that we continue to allow industrial fishing for sand eels and norway pout in the north sea. industrial fishing is completely incompatible with the development of a sustainable fishery. how can we force our fishermen to utilise 110 mm mesh sizes in the eu sector from 1 january 2002 for cod, haddock and whiting when we continue to allow these klondykers to scoop up everything in their path using small-mesh nets. this destructive practice has got to stop, and i hope that the commission will take the necessary steps to control industrial fishing as part of the overall cfp reform.
mr president, this is a very necessary technical proposal and i fully endorse mr nicholson's report and the proposal to which it refers. but speaking of recovery plans in general, of course it is not only the irish sea that has seen catastrophic declines. the north sea too has been confronted with drastic depletion of stock leading to partial sea closures and another cod recovery plan and the hake recovery plan. there is a manifest need in fisheries management to take account of the local eco-system and the regional differentials which exist. the broad brush approach, i would contend, has not worked with stocks on the decline and recovery very slow, if evident at all. that is why regional management is the way forward. in addition to the short-term technical proposals referred in this type of report, the approach of the commission's green paper, which is both more regional and conservation-orientated, must be embraced. in this regard, i also welcome proposals to make additional funds available for tie-up schemes as a necessary part of the management tool box for conservation purposes, going in tandem with the recovery plans. compensated tie-up schemes are also essential for the preservation of the cfps social role. in scotland, the need for recovery is acknowledged by all the stake-holders, but fishermen also must have the financial and the social protection that they need to encourage them while taking responsible actions. therefore, i ask the commission to ensure that a system is set in place which allows for compensated tie-ups, but without being subject to the whims of member state governments, to ensure that a more level playing field exists between fishing industries in the different member states, which from time-to-time will be affected by recovery plans.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i can make it quick. first of all, i would like to thank mr nicholson very much for his report. secondly, i would like to say that the commission fully endorses the report. the scientists concluded that the selectivity of single 6 mm thick meshes is equivalent to that of double 4 mm thick meshes. there was therefore no reason to exclude double 4 mm mesh from fishing in the irish sea. we have therefore adjusted our rules accordingly. i therefore thank you for your positive response to the commission's proposal.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 6.15 p.m. pending the vote and resumed at 6.30 p.m.)
- the agenda calls for a vote. results of the vote on topical and urgent subjects of major importance: see minutes. report (a5-0213/2001) by mr james nicholson, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 2549/2000 introducing additional technical measures to restore the cod stock in the irish sea (ices division viia) (com (2001) 165 - c5-0140/2001 - 2001/0083 (cns))
- the vote is closed. composition of committees - membership of committees - enhanced hughes/hughes procedure - authorization to draw up own-initiative and follow-up reports - statements entered in the register (rule 51) - follow-up to opinions and resolutions of parliament - transmission of texts adopted at the previous part-session - schedule of next part-sessions: see minutes.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. declarations entered in the register (rule 51) - forwarding of texts adopted at the previous part-session - calendar of next part-sessions: see minutes (the sitting was closed at 6.45 p.m.)
madam president, we have been in correspondence about mr titford's membership of the committee on fisheries, a very important committee for the united kingdom. we have expressed the hope that, since he never attends meetings of that committee, he might stand down as a member of it. (laughter)
madam president, i am speaking on behalf of mr napolitano who cannot be here. it concerns these two reports about relatively non-controversial amendments to our rules of procedure. these reports were adopted in committee last autumn and we in our committee were unanimously of the opinion that nine months is a long enough gestation period for any report. we have of course enquired as to why the conference of presidents has not placed these two reports on the plenary agenda already. we are anxious to know quickly because we need to know what will happen to these reports before we move to the general revision of the rules of procedure scheduled later this year. it is therefore a matter of urgency. we have been told that the conference of presidents has not had time to consider this in full because the matter is still being examined by the meeting of secretaries-general of political groups with the deputy secretary-general of the european parliament. we all know about coreper in the council. perhaps not all of us are aware that there is a sort of coreper in the european parliament that filters reports before they come to the conference of presidents, before they come into plenary. this is a highly dangerous way of proceeding and, after giving them nine months to consider the matter, it is now high time to put these reports on parliament's agenda, if not today, then later in the week. i am sure the committee would be willing to accept an undertaking that they be put on for the next part-session. but i must move this on behalf of the committee, supported unanimously by every political group in the committee on constitutional affairs.
madam president, that is the proposal formally put forward by the committee on constitutional affairs. we wish to make sure that this is properly addressed.
madam president, we see how seriously my party takes matters in this house. as a member of the constitutional affairs committee, speaking on behalf of lord inglewood, i must say that it seems very nearly a year is sufficient time for the powers that be to have considered this matter. if it is not placed on the agenda this week this is clearly going to cause difficulties for the committee in question. i would urge all members of the house, including my colleague mr provan, to vote in favour of this suggestion.
madam president, i had the honour to represent mr poettering at the conference of presidents' meeting, when this matter was discussed, as you well recall. the issue was whether we had time to take a lot of reports, because the agenda for this part-session is already highly complicated and very busy. i suggested that these two reports be taken with a major report from the committee on constitutional affairs by mr corbett himself, and said it would be good to put together a whole package of changes to the rules, because we need certain levels of voting throughout. there did not seem to be any dissent in by the conference of presidents at the time and it was hardly questioned. therefore the recommendation of the conference of presidents was that these should be taken together as a package when mr corbett's own report comes forward.
), rapporteur. – madam president, i note the proposal and if the report on terrorism is not moved by this proposal, then i would have nothing against moving it. mr schmid has done an excellent piece of work with his report on echelon and it is something which must be voted on by the whole house as soon as possible. however, i tend to the view expressed by mr vitorino that one has heard of both god and echelon but one cannot be sure that either of them exists. i also take the view, which i believe, madam president, is sustained and supported by your words at the beginning of today's sitting, that it is extremely important that we debate and vote on the issue of terrorism – which is a very real one – as soon as possible this week. should mr barón crespo's proposal not have the effect of moving the report on terrorism then i would be very happy to support it.
madam president, after the serious business may i end on a lighter note, with some good news for the region i represent, the north-west of england. the english papers yesterday and today seem to be dominated by one issue, the memorable historic match when england beat germany by five goals to one. the reason it is such good news for us – and i offer commiserations to my german colleagues – is that the main architects of that victory came from the major clubs in the north west – although we did have a swedish manager. i hope this shows people that the north-west region of england is a centre of excellence, not just for football but for many other things as well and i invite you all to go whenever you can. (laughter)
madam president, i appeal to you to write to the taliban authorities about the unfortunate case of shelter now. members of parliament may have heard that a number of aid workers have been arrested by the taliban authorities, largely on the basis that this is a christian-based organisation which contravened the taliban's rules on religious intolerance. i appeal to you to write to the taliban authorities demanding fair treatment for those arrested and their rapid release. they have committed no crime apart from trying to help afghanistan and the afghan people. afghanistan is one of the poorest and neediest nations in the world and it sets a very frightening precedent if aid workers are attacked because of their faith. it will undermine aid operations throughout the world and especially in afghanistan. i would like to draw parliament's attention to the fact that these aid workers, both european and afghans, may face the death penalty under taliban law. i urge members of the house to support an appeal to the taliban authorities to release those arrested.
madam president, before the summer break the parliament's bureau finally decided that it would publish the names of all the assistants of members paid under article 14 secretarial allowances, but since then we find that the bureau and the quaestors have qualified their decision and are requiring the individual consent, of both the members and the assistants, before they appear upon the list. surely, this makes a mockery of transparency and transgresses the principle that the names of all those who are paid from public funds should be published. can i ask you to request the bureau and the quaestors to review their decision?
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. – mr president, i should like to congratulate mr menrad and mr mayer on their reports. i would also like to back up what mr mayer said about the legal base. he is quite right. we have had people playing fast and loose on the whole question of the legal base. we started off with article 95 as legal base and we have moved on to article 308 because it suited certain people. that is wrong and parliament is right to say that at some future date we should be challenging this in court. concerning the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market on mr menrad's report on the information and consultation of workers, i take the two examples of corus and bmw rover. the first thing workers knew about the situation they were facing was when they were driving into work and they heard it on the radio. in this day and age that is totally intolerable. workers should be informed at the very start about the situation pertaining to their jobs because they are part and parcel of that company. i should know. i remember many years ago i turned up at my place of work to find that the gates of the factory were locked and all of us were standing outside. we were told by someone who was sent out that we had all been made redundant. i remember that quite clearly because the people who owned the factory still lived in big houses, still drove big cars and still went on holidays. i was a worker in the factory and nine months later i had not received any redundancy money: all i got was my back pay. that is the sort of situation workers should not be faced with ever again. that is why i congratulate mr menrad on taking this small step on the information and meaningful consultation of workers because it is a step in the right direction. it is not perfect. it will come back and we will improve it. however, it is a step in the right direction and i support it.
madam president, i am speaking this evening on behalf of my colleague lord inglewood who has been shadowing this for the british conservative group and who has unfortunately been delayed due to the inadequacies of plane transport from here to brussels. he asked me particularly to make that point to you. i broadly welcome this as a pragmatic proposal. i do not want to reflect on what might have been. i want to address a few remarks to the commissioner about the implementation of this proposal because it is a welcome advance that we will actually get something into the market place – and that is how we should regard it, – because companies will have the option of whether to adopt this form of company statute or not. it is entirely pragmatic and practical that we will initially have a proposal that will be subject to governments among the 15 member states. i want to say to the commissioner that considerable attention has to be given to ensuring that the rules for this new company statute are consistently implemented across the member states. currently, we have inconsistent application of company law within the existing member states' statutes on things like publication of information, timely publication of accounts, proper completion of accounts – all those sorts of issues are currently implemented differently. this new statute has to be implemented consistently and we have to make sure that courts in member states who will be responsible for this have the training and ability to do so. i also join in what colleagues have been saying about issues to do with taxation and company law. mr mayer, in an excellent report, wisely says at the conclusion that he advocates launching the european statute on a maiden voyage. well, it will show where repairs are needed – that is certainly true. but we must not overload this with other expectations about aligning company law, particularly tax harmonisation. i join with colleagues who have said how dangerous this is as a concept. we must not overload this statute with things that it was not designed to carry, otherwise it will sink very quickly indeed.
mr president, i should like to start my remarks by referring briefly to comments from the other side of the house, from mr medina ortega, who complained about what this legislation does not do, with particular reference to social harmonisation and tax harmonisation – omissions which i personally welcome. but from our different positions across the house we should not really complain about what this legislation does not do. we should be happy about what it does do, which is to enable a european company statute to come into force after 30 long years. as has been said, this is voluntary. we do not know at this stage how many companies will be interested in starting up such companies, nor what flaws they might find in the legislation if they do. we do not know what companies might be interested but are deterred from starting up such companies, again because of flaws in the legislation. other changes might be needed. i discussed with one of the rapporteurs, mr menrad, the idea of putting into his report an amendment that this legislation should be looked at again within a reasonable period of time to see what improvements might be needed in the light of experience. he was happy to support this, but very wisely suggested that any such amendment should be put into the main body of the statute report, in other words, the hans-peter mayer report. on that basis i did not table any such amendment here but would highlight amendment no 16 in the hans-peter mayer report which specifically covers all issues, therefore including consultation issues. too often eu laws get set in stone. we need to become much lighter on our feet. this should become the rule rather than the exception.
commission. – mr president, may i begin by thanking the rapporteurs and others who have spoken in the debate this afternoon in the support of the commission's proposals relating to the european company statute. as we all know, this has been one of the most laborious and long-standing matters which we have dealt with in the european union, with over 30 years of painful and intricate debates. throughout this period, parliament has always expressed its clear support for the idea of making a community law form of incorporation available to businesses. however you have on different occasions, most recently in 1990, 1996 and 1998, expressed serious concern about some of the controversial aspects of the texts which were then being discussed, notably with regard to employee participation, which clearly was the most complex issue involved. the texts which were finally politically agreed by the council following the nice summits reflect most, if not all, of parliament's concerns. those texts are not perfect, but they do translate the broad consensus which now exists within the council of ministers and parliament on the rules which should govern this new form of company. that consensus, as is well known, was extremely difficult to achieve and it must be safeguarded if we wish to see the texts finally adopted. in five years' time we shall review both the regulation and the directive after an initial period of experience with their application. that will certainly be an opportunity to deal with their possible inadequacies and shortcomings, some of which have been rightly pointed out this afternoon. for those reasons, and taking into account the delicacy of the consensus established within the council, the commission believes that the only realistic option at this stage consists in having the texts agreed in december 2000 adopted by the council as soon as possible without any changes. we are aware of parliament's reservations, as voiced by many speakers this afternoon, about the legal basis chosen unanimously by the council. the commission has always supported the strongest possible role for parliament and we regret that it has been deprived of codecision powers in this matter. but we must admit that there are strong legal arguments in favour of the legal basis adopted by the council. even though the commission did in the past consider other possibilities, we recognise that the treaty as currently worded makes it difficult to use a qualified majority codecision legal basis in this context, especially with regard to the proposed directive. since many speakers this afternoon have voiced their doubts on the matter of the legal basis, perhaps i can say a few more words on this important matter. the commission proposed, for both the regulation and the directive, two legal bases allowing for the adoption of the acts by qualified majority voting within the council. but at the end of last year the commission was confronted with the fact that the council had unanimously changed the proposed legal basis of both texts to article 308 of the treaty, which requires unanimity. the commission is aware of and very much regrets the fact that this change has deprived parliament of its codecision powers on a matter on which it has always expressed a strong interest. but the commission cannot ignore the fact that the texts agreed by the council in december 2000 follow very closely the opinions delivered by this parliament over the years. in addition, from a strictly legal perspective, the commission can understand the reservations expressed by the council on article 95 as the correct legal basis for the regulation, since the regulation is not aimed at harmonising national company laws. the rules in question address only the future societas europaea and they do not affect other national provisions applicable to public limited companies at all. so, although the commission regrets that the legal basis was changed, there is substance to the council's opinion on the legal basis, and it cannot, just be dismissed out of hand. turning to taxation, which also has been mentioned by a number of members of parliament, you may know that the commission originally proposed specific tax rules for inclusion in the european company statute, but the council insisted on deleting them. i am firmly convinced that tax rules are still needed and i am pleased that the commission and parliament seem to agree on this fundamental point. the commission will probably be producing its analytical study of company taxation in the internal market and a related policy of communication next month. amongst other things, these documents analyse the tax obstacles for cross-border economic activities by all companies in the eu and possible ways of dealing with them. members of parliament only have to talk to business people in various member states to know that those tax obstacles are extremely real and very serious. the documents i have just mentioned also look into the specific situation of companies formed under the statute for the european company and the commission believes that they will provide an excellent framework for determining the best way forward. in particular, i believe that serious thought should be given to a comprehensive solution for the current company tax problems for businesses active in more than one member state. in the aftermath of the study i alluded to just now, the commission intends to launch a broad debate on the future of company taxation in the internal market and the need for fundamental reform, not least in order to achieve the eu objectives of becoming the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, as agreed at the lisbon european council of march 1999. in this context we shall take up the tax issues relating to the european company statute and treat them as a priority. bearing in mind the specific issues involved here and the intention companies have expressed of creating european companies, i am confident that parliament will support final adoption by the council without further delay and i thank parliament in advance.
- the next item is the report (a5-0282/2001) by mr menrad, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the commission report on the state of implementation of the directive on the establishment of a european works council or a procedure in community-scale undertakings and community-scale groups of undertakings for the purpose of informing and consulting employees (council directive 94/45/ec of 22 september 1994) (com (2000) 188 - c5-0437/2000 - 2000/2214 (cos)).
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. – mr president, we are referring to the working of the works council directive up to the period 1996, i.e. before the united kingdom and the republic of ireland signed up to that agreement. the experience up until that point was positive, with clear benefits being brought about by this directive. however, recent events have shown some weaknesses in the works council directive, noticeably in relation to restructuring as we have seen several cases recently of major restructuring in multinationals in which workers have not been consulted. we should note that, even before the adoption of this directive, the court of justice in various cases held that works councils were parties concerned for the purposes of merger control proceedings. that presupposes a duty to inform and consult on the part of the employer. we should like to see a strengthening of the directive in relation to consultation in the event of restructuring. the commission in its report also refers to the vagueness of the requirement for an information and consultation meeting to be held with the workers as soon as possible in the event of exceptional circumstances which affect employees. that also needs to be tightened. article 27 of the charter of fundamental rights says that workers should be guaranteed information and consultation ‘in good time’, which is a rather more strict interpretation than ‘as soon as possible’. the committee on legal affairs would like to see strengthening in relation to that point. in addition, we find that part-time workers are dealt with differently in different member states. we would like to see the commission look into that aspect, and into the question of time off for activities in the works councils, which varies from member state to member state. this should also apply regarding the matter of training, which also varies considerably. we would like to see the commission come forward with proposals to ensure that there is harmonised training across member states in order to ensure that workers' representatives are able to put their case as effectively as possible.
mr president, my colleague, mr menrad, has put a great deal of thought into his work and raises some interesting points concerning the perceived strengths and weaknesses of the existing directive. however, it should be noted that certain countries only implemented this directive last year and that at least one country has not yet implemented certain provisions at all. it is clear that companies and their employees still need some time to complete the learning process involved in establishing european works councils. premature changes to the rules can only cause confusion, though it is clearly useful for the commission and council to take note of parliament's views at this time. as the rapporteur knows, i believe in information and consultation. i support the principle of works councils, i share his wish for their success. however, as he also knows, i am not at all happy with certain elements of his report. i still believe it goes too far in reference to sanctions in reducing thresholds in terms of sizes of companies and – frankly – in pushing the trade union agenda as an end in itself rather than in promoting the interests of employees. for these reasons, i have tabled four amendments, for which i have already secured some cross-party support and i also propose to vote against recitals 5 and 7, as he knows. having said that, i thank the rapporteur for accommodating some amendments in committee and i confirm that i am still willing to vote in favour of his whole report, despite my serious concerns, if the ppe-de group supports two of my amendments, in particular amendments nos 1 and 3, as we have already discussed. in that way we could show that our own mini-european works council of a german rapporteur, a dutch group coordinator and myself from the united kingdom have set a good example in achieving a positive result.
mr. president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this report. it is important to bear in mind, given what we heard already this evening, that lisbon was not about competition, but social cohesion as well. companies are increasingly being expected to behave in an ethical and socially responsible manner. sound employment practices and good working relationships with employees are key indicators for such ethical assessment and we need to see the recommendations in the report in that light. the report points out a number of ways in which a revised directive could make works councils more effective and prevent some of the problems and breakdowns we have heard about: regular meetings, not the token annual meeting that is all 85% of them manage; increasing the representation of women, who are virtually invisible in many of these bodies, just as they are in too many boardrooms; training to improve the quality of representation and communication; and the facilities and safeguards to ensure that works council members represent all sectors effectively. the sanctions for non-compliance are also critical. we either want responsible social partners, or we do not. my group does, so we welcome this report and look forward to seeing commission proposals based on it.
mr president, i am pleased to support this report. i have spoken several times in this house about the recent loss of 3000 jobs in wales when the steel company corus announced massive redundancies. when the employment and social affairs committee held the hearing in april this year and workers' representative from corus european works council told us that in many ways it was a model works council. it met twice a year, it provided excellent training and it enabled experts to attend meetings. yet it failed to tell the workers that they were about to get rid of 6000 jobs even when there was massive public speculation about these job losses. this report states that the main goal of the directive is to remove obstacles to information, consultation and communication with the workforce to enable dialogue to take place. this is vitally important. it must be more than paying lip service to consultation. there must be a definition of consultation to ensure it is meaningful and comprehensive and carried out in good time, as others have said. in other words this must happen before decisions are made and not after and there must be sanctions against those who do not comply. i agree with mr menrad that we need a revision of the directive to prevent repeats of the corus experience and to look at other issues he identifies such as the involvement of women. i hope that this debate will help achieve that.
mr president, the rapporteur should be congratulated on his wide-ranging and important report and he has rightly identified the problems of transposition and application of community law, mainly with regard to directives. but we may have seen nothing yet, because we are moving into an era of new legislation – the era of co-regulation. will this in future form part of community law, whose application and uniformity we should be looking out for? in its white paper on governance, the commission states that co-regulation will not be appropriate where rules need to apply in a uniform way. nor will it be appropriate where fundamental rights or political choices are called into question. yet this year we had to produce parliament's own-initiative report on the eej-net, a european alternative dispute network set up by the commission using a co-regulatory approach. yet what could be more fundamental than our citizens' access to justice or the way that law is applied and dispensed? will we be watching every arbitrator and regulator to make sure that community law is correctly applied? we have enough trouble at the moment with the normal judiciary. we need to be aware of these issues. they are fundamental to our citizens and also to the rights of this parliament as a co-legislator, not to mention their possible fragmentary effect on the achievements of the internal market if they are not very carefully monitored by this parliament.
commission. – the report on monitoring the application of community law that is before the house today is the seventeenth that has been produced in response to the request originally made by this house in a resolution in 1983. these reports give, as the house knows, an annual record of the work of the commission in discharging one of the most vital parts of its role as guardian of the treaties by taking action against infringements under article 226 of the treaty. it is obviously right for the house to scrutinise these activities. the commission is gratified by the fact that parliament has given a warm welcome to this latest report and grateful also to mr koukiadis and his colleagues for their work. every year, each of the two periodical reports on suspected infringements produced before infringement proceedings are open and each of the two reports on established infringements that are produced after notice has been given to the member state concerned cover some 2 000 or so cases investigated by the commission. the bulk of these are individual cases of incorrect application of community law by the member states' authorities. clearly it is only possible to deal with such a caseload with a procedure which combines the advantages of individual examination of cases, speedy processing and compliance with the principle of collective responsibility applied in the commission. the development of an efficient computerised system is also essential to fulfilling this task. for this reason a single management database has been set up, covering all infringement files opened by the commission and covering data on the transposal of directives by member states. one benefit of this system is that it enables the commission to take action systematically against member states which have not adopted national measures to implement directives before the time allowed for transposal is completed. as the house will know, this is not an obsession with uniformity for some bureaucratic reason. it is essential in the interests of equity across the union. the development of an efficient computerised system will also make it possible to report in greater detail to the public on the action taken by the commission to monitor application of community law whenever a decision has been taken to issue a reasoned opinion or to refer a case to the court. the commission is continuing its policy of issuing immediate press releases, which we first established in 1998, and in addition, since january of this year, decisions giving notice of an infringement, issuing a reasoned opinion, referring the case to court or terminating a case have also been published on the european communities' europa server as soon as they have been adopted by the commission. the peer pressure exerted by this greater transparency of decisions that relate to infringements by member states may also help to promote more rapid conformity from member states as they all now learn immediately of the decisions taken against each of them. greater transparency can also be seen as a guarantee of fair hearing of complaints. the house will be aware that because the commission has a privileged position in bringing infringement proceedings it therefore has a unique ability to safeguard the interests of complainants. the guarantees offered by the commission have been built up over time and they now mean procedural arrangements, which ensure registration of the complaint, strict confidentiality and information for complainants who may make their views known before any decision is taken to close the case. we are dedicated to ensuring maximum strength and maximum dependability in these vital procedures. in its reply to the ombudsman on the criticism of the management of the infringement case concerning the award of the contract for building the thessaloniki metro, the commission has therefore pledged itself to consolidating the administrative rules for complainants in order to facilitate contracts between complainants and commission departments. parliament will be informed of this consolidation as soon as it is complete. the report adopted by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market – which is the basis for the motion for a resolution before the house today – contains several findings and recommendations. for brevity, i hope that the house will permit me to deal only with the main ones. i begin by saying that the commission does not agree with the report's conclusions that the growing volume of infringements handled by the commission departments, in particular on the basis of complaints, reflects a deterioration in the application of community law. the main reasons for that are as follows. firstly, the overall volume of complaints and of cases handled is actually stable. the number of complainants registered even dropped slightly in 2000. secondly, account must be taken of successive community enlargements and the expansion of community law, particularly in connection with the community's wider powers and the growing public and business awareness of community law. these are all factors that affect the number of infringements handled by the commission and on that basis the increase in the absolute number of cases handled is a positive development rather than something that should cause disquiet. as mr koukiadis states in his report, it is important that every effort should be made to get to the root of infringements and find ways of reducing their number without relying exclusively on the standard infringement procedure. as regards the interpretation of statistics in the annual report, the scope for interpreting the figures is still restricted because of the many causes of infringements, the commission's great dependence on complaints and the political dimension of the work arising from the fact that proceedings are at the commission's discretion. the commission is in a position to determine an order of priority for proceedings by reference to, firstly, the perceived damage to the community legal order, secondly the perceived damage to the interest protected by the rule that has been breached, thirdly the recurrent nature of certain infringements which are the subject of individual or collective complaints and fourthly the harm caused to community's financial interests. in addition, topical events in any given area of the community law can also trigger an increase in complaints to the commission and cause the commission to step up its action to satisfy the needs of the political agenda. the various stages in the completion of the single market were a good example of that. the increasing awareness of the possibility of infringement of environmental law is another instance. all of these points are of course made in very clear terms in the white paper, which is, as some members have reminded us, to be considered in this house tomorrow. it must be borne in mind that the national courts are the first guardians of the community legal order and therefore the commission deals with a relatively small proportion of community law infringements. it also has to be recognised that, since much of this law is made up of directives which have to be transposed into the member states' domestic legal systems, once they have been transposed, the instrument concerned belongs to domestic law and any infringement must be dealt with by the national courts. i know that is understood in this house, but i spell it out for the record in the hope that it might eventually trickle through to the understanding of the press in member states and maybe eventually to the public, who are persuaded daily by the newspapers that there is a great centralising process going on in the european union when in fact the opposite is the case. the report from the committee on legal affairs and the internal market refers to the need to shorten the time taken to deal with complaints. naturally we sympathise with that objective and we are therefore contacting relevant member states with a view to securing faster compliance with community law and reducing member states own handling times, particularly by greater use of the computerised system. as i have already said, in the interests of greater transparency the commission is now publishing its decisions to send letters of formal notice, to issue reasoned opinions, to refer cases to the court or to close or withdraw cases immediately a decision has been taken. i would also stress that specifically in response to parliament's concern, the 18th annual report relating to the year 2000 will contain a specific section on the management of exceptions to the harmonisation which member states enjoy under article 95 of the treaty. the commission also notes parliament's concern about the need to improve cooperation between the commission and the national authorities responsible for implementing secondary legislation. as you know, there are regular contacts between commission departments about specific problems with the application of community law through package meetings and so-called directives missions. however, the commission is also looking at ways of improving the procedure for the notification of national implementing measures as an extension of the ida programme for the interchange of data between administrations. that work involves the networking of community and national legal databases covering directives and national implementing measures and will also give the public easier access to community law and assist with the training of lawyers in community law. the network will also provide direct access to the reports on domestic application of community law produced by specific national authorities. in conclusion, commission action on monitoring community law is crucial to fulfilling our essential mission of preserving the community legal order, fairly, firmly, consistently, and with public understanding. the active interest of this house in such activities is invaluable and we are therefore grateful to it for its continuing support and understanding.
mr president, on behalf of all my colleagues i would like very much to welcome mr kinnock here to discuss the reforms. i would like to say to him that it is not through lack of effort on our part that it has taken a long time to get this question on the agenda. it has been very disappointing that we have not made progress with the bureau to elevate the importance of this discussion. nevertheless we will make up for it tonight and it is a pleasure to have you here. clearly the reforms – and i know you will be able to tell us much more about them in a moment – are at a critical stage. we know you have been consulting extensively. in a way that presents us with a dilemma in parliament. you will know from the support for my report last year that colleagues have taken a very deep and intensive interest in the whole package of reforms and we have given you strong support for them. indeed, we have been very conscious of the fact that these reforms need to be implemented as quickly as possible so that staff do not get disillusioned and they can see that change is ahead of them and new working methods coming before them. we have made some suggestions that are reflected in the question tonight. we do not want to disrupt that process. on the other hand when you send us the elements of the staff regulations, as legislators we need to make sure that those changes to the rules are going to work in favour of good administration and not against it. you made out the case persuasively, as it says in our report, that in many cases the current staff regulations are deficient in that respect. the question we have tabled tonight goes to what we regard – and i hope that you will share our opinion – as the very heart of the reforms you are putting together. the achievement should be an organisation in which advancement is on merit, an organisation in which all members of staff in the commission know that they have clear goals, know what those goals are, know that if they meet or exceed those goals their performance is going to be fully recognised. they should know that they work in an organisation in which appraisals of their performance are not bureaucratic exercises that are carried out every two years and put in a filing cabinet and not referred to again, that the appraisal process is part of the overall quality of management and processes within the commission, part of giving all members of staff the feeling that it is part of their personal development. it is setting them goals, it is identifying the need for training for development, for promotion and identifying the things that they need to do to contribute to the development of themselves and to the organisation overall. that question of appraisal links very strongly to an aspect of the reforms about which we know you are engaged in heavy discussions at the moment. i hope you will not mind if i mention that tonight even though it is not part of our question. that is the question of career structure and your proposals to move to a linear career structure. it is clear that appraisal and career structure are inextricably linked together. it is my argument – and indeed that was expressed in my report and supported by colleagues – that if the appraisal and development system works properly there are no obstacles to achieving the linear career structure – and that is the whole thrust of what you are trying to do. there should be no reason for setting artificial barriers to people's progress through an organisation. if there is a need for qualifications or training to move to the next job the development process will identify that. and so a properly designed and effective appraisal system, which we have asked you a number of questions about in the question we have tabled, is also linked very strongly to that move, and indeed it is the very foundation of a linear career structure as well. my colleague, mrs guy-quint, is going to cover all the detailed budgetary questions with her considerable expertise in that subject, but i would just like to mention two final elements of our questions, to set them in context. the first is one that we have specifically asked you about as an aspect of a modern public organisation: a policy for whistle-blowing – and the english terminology is now being widely accepted as a very good way of identifying a policy where officials believe and are confident that if they find wrongdoing they can report it without fear of recrimination or their careers being affected. the second links in with a debate we will be having later this week on the code of administrative behaviour: how do you see that as an integral part of the overall reforms? in conclusion we very much look forward to hearing your responses this evening and also your reassurance that the reforms are proceeding to plan as you would wish. we hope you will also identify ways in which you would like more support from this house in what is for us an absolutely crucial development for the future of the commission and indeed for the future of europe itself.
mr president, when we embarked on this exercise all of us knew that the reform of the commission was never going to be easy, it was never going to be smooth and it was never going to be quick, because we had 40 years of entrenched views and in trying to change that we were always going to have to overcome some problems. despite these obstacles, i have to say, having listened to the commissioner, we have congratulate him on the progress that he has made so far and we also have to congratulate the staff trade union for having gone into negotiation and made headway in a number of areas of reform. it is important that this question is down here because i would like to touch on a couple of points that some of my colleagues have raised. mr harbour – rightly so – raised the question of timing. timing is important because, if you get the timing wrong, it impacts on the morale of staff and once the morale of staff starts to fall then that has an impact on career improvements, advancement, etc., and once that starts – they do not move forward. all these points go together. i was glad that mr harbour touched on the question of the linear career structure, it is a big issue and one that we have to face up to as the commissioner is well aware. i would add that i agree that whistle-blowing is now in the public knowledge. however, whistle-blowing has a different ramification in the west of scotland: it tends to indicates flutes and that does not go down too well in my part of the world. i slightly disagree with my colleague mrs guy-quint. on the question of consultation: we have been consulted at every opportunity. she did argue again for a more protracted period of reform, but as we said, if we spin it out longer and longer it impacts upon the morale of the staff and that impacts on the performance of the staff. we have to keep this as short as possible. the whole question of retirement: i was the person responsible for piloting the question of the retirement package through parliament and it is a wonderful package. i would love to be offered the same. can i say to the commissioner, we heard quite clearly about the breaking of the heading 5 ceiling. we realise that it is not in the domain of the commission and maybe it is high time that some of us were to look at some of the other institutions and how they were getting on with on with that. in conclusion, we have made significant progress. it is important that we are kept informed of the progress. i am glad to hear what the commissioner said, because only by that and by monitoring what is happening can we have an impact. if obstacles do occur, we can then start trying to tackle them, here and in the other institutions as well.
madam president, a small error: in the english version of the minutes, at the end of that section, it stated that mr napolitano is chairman of the cont – i presume the committee on budgetary control. in fact, he is chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs.
madam president, in july with my colleagues mr galeote, mr laschet and mr morillon i had the opportunity to visit the middle east. we had conversations with foreign minister peres and chairman arafat and other very senior people there. it was made clear to us that the mitchell proposals are still accepted by both sides. the problem is how to put them into effect. this cannot begin until there is a cessation of terrorism and only yesterday there was another suicide bomb attack in jerusalem. the europeans should cease worrying about having a role. they have one. the question is whether they will exercise it in a balanced and useful way. the united states and the europeans must work in harmony and not allow themselves to be played off one against the other. in the past the european union has been seen merely as a supporter of the palestinians. it was an institution looking for a role. now mr solana is winning the confidence of the israelis as well by a more balanced and realistic approach without being too prescriptive. i am reassured by the presidency remarks this morning on the need for equi-distance. on the palestinian side, the danger is that intransigence will be fuelled by events such as the un racism conference in south africa, through the influence of radical arab forces in the region and by the breakdown of liaison between israeli and palestinian security agencies. instead of suppressing hamas, islamic jihad and other extremist elements, the palestinian agencies are now too often in bed with the extremists. i fully accept mr patten's analysis that further impoverishment of the palestinians will not discourage extremism but i have no doubt that the european union should use its financial leverage with the palestinians to greater political effect. we must make it clear that continued funding requires the palestinians to bear down with greater effect and greater consistency on the extremists. we need to take care also over this question of international monitors. the precedents are not good. the most likely form of increased international presence on the ground is a resuscitation of the liaison between the israeli and palestinian security services reinforced by american and european elements. this might not catch the headlines but through removal of misunderstanding and more effective action against extremists, it may actually help create some of the conditions for peace.
- we are joined in the gallery by many friends, politicians and diplomats from the candidate countries. we welcome you to this house with great pleasure. i hope you find the debate interesting and constructive. (applause) i would like to thank
- we'll resume this debate at three.
- we will discuss this with the commission services and ensure that they reach you as soon as possible. if there was a commitment, i'm sure it will be honoured.
mr president, as the joint initiator and author of this question, perhaps i might be allowed to say a brief word. i also met mr kinnock this morning to discuss yesterday's responses. his services told me that the report had actually been sent to parliament yesterday for distribution to members. so that is something that should be looked at, because mr kinnock made it clear yesterday that the commission was keen to give members a response straight away to the detail of my question. we ought to investigate this. if the commission sent the report to parliament, it is our responsibility that it has not been circulated. if the delay was on the part of the commission, we should ask why there was a delay.
- we'll look into it and try to see what went wrong.
- according to my text, it's pretty clear. i quote: "... and the strengthening of european citizenship". this is the text we are voting on. (parliament adopted the resolution) the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive.
mr president, i welcome the fact that at long last we have resolved this issue of the european company statute. it is logical that if we have a single market there should be a single system of company registration, which ought to make registration simpler and reduce red tape. in the defence industries in the last few years we have had considerable cross-border cooperation and consolidation but we have not helped those companies because we have not provided them with a single company structure. hopefully this will now do that. we also have to bear in mind that there are other issues that have to be addressed, such as the manner in which companies are taxed and the way that is approached. and if we are really to encourage transnational consolidation, we have to look at the question of how pension funds are dealt with so that people are able to take their pensions with them when working within a single company structure.
- i know what the problem is. we all understand your point of view, but it is very difficult to force your colleagues to leave the conference room in peace. they always have something else to do. nevertheless, we will emphasize this point as often as possible.
in writing. - the uk conservatives support the principle of works councils, but also believe that it is up to companies and their employees to decide what is best for them, and that the eu does not need to introduce a one-size-fits-all legislation. the works councils should be a meeting place for employers and employees. a flimsy law can turn them into obstacles. it is flexibility, not rigidity, that counts. the only area where greater legal certainty is required is in the area of confidentiality, when mergers and acquisitions of companies take place. we have made little progress on this point.
- explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 1.05 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
rapporteur. – mr president, over the past year we have seen many very encouraging developments in terms of bulgaria's progress towards accession. while there have undoubtedly been many areas of disappointment, three months ago there was a very dramatic political development in bulgaria. in the general election on 17 june we saw the governing udf routed by a new political force, the simeon ii national movement, led by the former king simeon who, as simeon sakskoburggotski, is now prime minister and will be visiting european union institutions and nato in brussels for the first time next week. in the elections some 60% of the electorate preferred to vote for parties that were not represented in the previous parliament. it was a resounding vote of no confidence on the government in office, and a heartfelt demand for real progress, improvement and change: a leap of faith. the previous udf administration faced enormous difficulties and i wish to acknowledge its success in many areas. it was the first of the post-communist governments to see out its full term. it took forward bulgaria's application for european union membership and put bulgaria in a position formally to open accession negotiations in february 2000. as a result, 11 negotiating chapters have now been successfully closed. a further 10 have been opened and are under negotiation. it is expected that five more will be opened this year. only four chapters therefore will remain to be opened by the beginning of next year. on the macroeconomic level there has been excellent growth in gdp. bulgaria has been a pillar of regional stability, first through all the international difficulties with the milosevic regime in neighbouring yugoslavia, then the kosovo conflict and most recently with the tensions in neighbouring macedonia. bulgaria has acted throughout in a manner supportive of european union and nato policies, but the regional instability has inevitably had an impact on the bulgarian economy and on investor confidence in the region. but the formal process of negotiation and the aspiration to take reform forward are clearly not enough. certainly the bulgarian political system has confirmed its democratic stability. certainly structures have begun to be put in place to deal with the fundamental problems of weak administrative capacity, of corruption and of excluded minorities. the fact is that most of the people of bulgaria, through all these difficulties and upheavals, have seen little improvement in their own lives and standards of living. my report is in effect a final report on the performance of the last government and an indicator as to the problems that need to be addressed by the new administration. the challenge for the new government is to maintain its coherence and to translate its aspirations, its ambitious programme, into concrete reality. i am very encouraged by what i have heard so far. the new government team, particularly concerning the economy, balances its vitality and enthusiasm with professional competence and a degree of modesty in view of the tasks ahead. the priorities for the government are continuity and the preparations for european union and nato membership, with acceleration of political and economic reform, concentrating on tax reforms to stimulate the economy, squeezing out corruption, reform of the judiciary, modernisation of the customs service and border security, and legal changes to ensure that bulgaria has a functioning market economy through amendment of banking laws and improvement in the bankruptcy laws. in many ways the new team offers a breath of fresh air. it has a clear agenda and is willing to consider novel solutions drawing on sound experience from other countries. it will be judged by the quality, rather than quantity, of its legislation, by its ability to implement its policies and by its determination to bring about real reform that will benefit the population at large in a tangible manner. at a time of regional crisis and an international economic downturn, this will not be easy. it is time to build the widest possible consensus for reform in bulgaria. bulgaria previously set itself the target of concluding negotiations by 2004 with a view to european union membership by 2007. many regard this as ambitious, but not unrealistic. i have agreed to remove such references from my resolution for the sake of consistency with the approach adopted in the other enlargement reports. i do not support amendments which would seek to add further conditionality to bulgaria's membership application. of course each candidate country should be judged on its own progress towards accession, without any hidden political barriers and without having to follow the course of any other candidate country. i trust this house will give every encouragement to bulgaria and its new government on the path to eu and nato accession and support my resolution. i feel sure that the new government of bulgaria will respond positively to the points that i have made.
rapporteur. – mr president, i thank my colleagues in the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy for giving me another opportunity to work on romania's accession to the european union of romania. at the moment, romania has a unique opportunity, unequalled in modern times, to make very swift progress. for the first time in living history, it has a stable government, elected on a democratic mandate. it has clear political leadership, a greater understanding of the european union's community values and exceptionally good economic signals. the reform process is under way under the tutelage of the european commission and with the efforts the romanian administration has made on the acquis communautaire a larger number of chapters is under negotiation now than had been anticipated. if romania continues to move ahead in this way and has the courage to undertake the painful political structural reforms, there is nothing to stop romania joining the european union without delay and it is pleasing to know that 79% of romanians are enthusiastic about this prospect. the accession process is continuing. the number of chapters is increasing and i am pleased to announce that the commission could receive all the position papers from the ministry by christmas, if it is able to do so. certainly that is what the european ministry for integration in romania is hoping for. president iliescu announced in gothenburg that he hoped and believed that all chapters could be fulfilled during his period of office. we in parliament are dismayed and i am sure others must be too, that the visa restrictions have not yet been lifted. the ministers for justice and home affairs are meeting today and i sincerely hope that they will come to the conclusion that visa restrictions are no longer necessary for romanian citizens. it is pleasing to note that the german ambassador to romania last week opened the new embassy by laying the foundation stone and saying that this embassy will have no visa section. the romanian government has decided to be judged by action and not by words. it has already done excellent foreign affairs work through romania's chairmanship of the osce and made excellent progress in its relationships with the world bank and the international monetary fund. it might be dogged by poverty, but good things have happened; industrial productivity has gone up by 17% and inflation is coming down little by little. romania's largest investor is still france, but other eu member states such as germany, italy, greece and the united kingdom are coming in. it has at the same time been cementing its relationship with north america and particularly with the usa. but romania's destiny remains in europe and her future lies with nato and the european union. perhaps ceausescu's bitter legacy, however, was responsible for the fact that the political will for change was slower to emerge in romania than in some other former soviet union candidate countries. indeed, the treatment of children in romania, as the commissioner mentioned this morning, rapidly became a global media horror story. today, however, romania is in the process of change, helped all the way along the line by the commission's faultless work in brussels and bucharest and guided by long-term friends here in parliament right across the political spectrum. we are working as a team to assist romania in her progress towards the european union. as the commissioner said on another occasion, the progress of integration is unstoppable. romania is an integral part of that process and social change in the last few months has been rapid. gay rights are now part of law, an anti-trafficking law has recently been passed and domestic violence law has gone through. a children's act, on children's rights, which will incorporate adoption law, both local and international, is now being prepared. the high-level group for romanian children is moving towards registration. this will incorporate a wise persons' panel to assess romania's capacity to come back into the inter-country adoption world when the time is right. it is imperative that the children's act is not hurried. local adoptions have doubled in the last few months and 20 000 children are leaving special schools this week and will be going back into normal schools and normal life. that is tremendous progress. here may i pay special tribute to my spanish colleagues in the european parliament, who have had many pressures on them from different families in spain. i am delighted that the new romanian government has nominated very competent officials to review the problems that these spanish families are facing. i will keep a very careful eye on this and report back to my spanish colleagues. in conclusion, romania has much to offer the european union and the world. its deep-rooted knowledge of its early european status in the roman empire gives it every encouragement to work through these difficult times and in due course become a full member of the european union.
mr president, i welcome the debate this afternoon and welcome mr verheugen's comments this morning, which were extremely positive. i should like to make one crucial point. the key to the enlarged community has to be the integrity of the single market. we must ensure that the complete integrity of that single market will emerge at the end of these negotiations. if it is not the case, then there will be considerable resistance to enlargement from businesses in the community and from the workers in the community who feel themselves disadvantaged. i take one particular example. recently in the czech republic there was restructuring in the banking sector. one of the major banks in the czech republic – ipb – was forced into administration and this was done to the benefit of another bank – csob. there appears to have been some use of state aids to support the position of the csob in order to support the position of a private sector rival to the ipb. clearly that whole saga is very unsatisfactory. it is not transparent and it is not in accordance with the terms of the association agreement. we must ensure that those sorts of events do not continue to happen. as chairman of the joint parliamentary committee, i should also like to say a few words in relation to lithuania. i welcome mrs souladakis' report. it is clear that the lithuanian government has made enormous strides to catch up. i am very hopeful that they will be alongside the original group within the next 12 months. but again, they have to ensure implementation of the single market, particularly as regards counterfeiting in the audiovisual sector.
mr president, if the political problems cannot be resolved at long last, the issue of cyprus has the potential to derail the entire enlargement process or to leave us in the ridiculous situation where hundreds of thousands of turkish cypriots are notionally eu citizens without having being consulted, while at the same time facing eu sanctions of a political and economic nature. we cannot afford to close our eyes to the reality. i look forward to greek cypriot and turkish cypriot politicians sitting alongside us as parliamentarians in this chamber and to the creation of a bi-zonal federal state. but in discussing this issue, it is not acceptable simply to say that the problems of cyprus started with the turkish invasion in 1974 without mentioning the divisions of the island from 1963 when greek cypriots murdered turkish cypriots. if there is to be true reconciliation between these peoples, then complete objectivity is needed and in this report before us that is too sadly lacking.
madam president, this white paper between ourselves is worth more than all the recent grandstanding speeches of national leaders, because it combines clarity of purpose with a substantial degree of self-criticism. president prodi has drawn attention to the paradox that people want the union to be doing more in several fields but they still distrust the system of government. the commission is therefore quite right to focus on improving the commission's representative capacity, especially at the pre-legislative stage. i would also want a strong emphasis on improving the post-legislative phase, monitoring far more closely the way european policies are put into effect on the ground. my group welcomes the commission's emphasis on decentralised management and on a reinforced role for the regions. the european region plays a vital part as the intermediary between the citizen and the supranational authorities. we also note the kind suggestion that parliament feeds into the european system the views of its own electors. what else we are up to, i am not quite sure. but the place that we intend to do this is in the new convention that we trust will be set up at laeken, a concept that strangely receives not a single mention throughout the entire white paper. would mr prodi agree that the white paper will be a most sensible contribution to the work of that convention? would he say exactly the way he sees the furtherance of the work on the white paper fitting in with that of the convention?
commission. – as a result of many complaints in conjunction with a number of petitions lodged by eu citizens with the committee of petitions of parliament, the commission has been examining very carefully whether the requirements of the first non-life insurance directive have been properly transposed and implemented with regard to the association of underwriters know as lloyd's. to date the commission is unable to confirm that all requirements of the first non-life insurance directive have been fully respected with regard to lloyd's. the situation is extremely complex. there are a number of specific provisions in the directive concerning lloyd's that are clearly reflected in uk national legislation. the commission is seeking to complete its inquiries as quickly as possible. these inquiries are now very close to completion whereupon a decision will be taken, either to close the case or to launch formal infringement proceedings under article 226. the commission will inform parliament of its decision as soon as it has been taken.
mr president, i would like to thank mr bolkestein for his reply. i recognise that he has reiterated what he said in a very full statement to the committee on petitions. he informed the petitions committee back in july that the commission would be ready at the end of the summer to give its response. when i look outside the chamber today, with the pouring rain, i think we are very close to the end of the summer. i guess i am not going to get any clearer statement other than "as quickly as possible". could i perhaps also ask mr bolkestein whether he is aware of the failure of independent insurance in the united kingdom over recent months and the appointment by the british government of an inquiry into the equitable life insurance company? are his services looking at both of those insurance undertakings to satisfy themselves that in those respects the british government has been properly applying european insurance directives?
commission. – if i were in a more cynical mood i would say that you are slightly optimistic in saying that we are benefiting from the profits of the oil companies. what i said about the principle of extra-territoriality is right. it is a real problem to legislate here for what is going on in another country. the real problem is that what is legal on paper or in practice in a country like the sudan can be very different from what we would accept as being legal here. but that difference is part of the reality of our world. so i will stick to my warning against this parliament following what the american congress has done with the cuba problem, seen from their point of view and the helms-burton act, by imposing outside their own principles of jurisdiction. we can agree with them or not, but these principles were only decided on by them. that is the core of the problem. although the ethics of this discussion point in the direction that the honourable member has expressed, the mechanics and the legislative aspects of evoking this principle are still something i would counsel against.
i had the opportunity to visit the sudan earlier this year, as did mr corrie, though not at the same time, and he led an official delegation. i am grateful to the commissioner for his balanced response. it seems to me that what is needed here in europe is an appreciation of the facts of the situation – what is actually happening. many allegations have been made. the sudanese government denies them. we want to get at the truth. i would like to hear whether the commission is going to make any effort, or is making any effort, to try to establish whether or not there is a scorched earth policy. the commission representative in khartoum said to me that our aid to the sudan is severely limited because of political constraints. if only we could start to get more aid into that country we might do more to end the civil war there and actually get greater respect for human rights across the whole of that country. that should be the ambition of us all.
that was such a comprehensive reply that i cannot think of a supplementary question, so i will not ask one.
commission. – despite the difficulties in moving forward on this issue as rapidly as we had hoped, i want to stress that the analysis of the 1997 action plan advocating a need for restructuring the european defence industry and for creating a single market for defence products is still valid. indeed i believe it to be even more pertinent for at least two reasons: development of the esdp – european security and defence policy – and the constitution of transnational defence companies. up to now the council discussions have been characterised by differences of opinion between the member states, preventing the adoption of a common position on the framing of a european armament policy. but as the competitiveness of the european defence industry is vital to the credibility of the nascent european security and defence policy, the commission expects that governments will recognise increasingly the urgency for a change in attitudes in order to end policies and practices that prevent european defence companies from working together more efficiently. such a change in the position of member states will allow the commission to contribute more effectively to the creation of a european defence equipment market through exercising its competence under community policies such as the creation of the single market in defence, external trade, etc. as the commissioner for enterprise i am pursuing the objective of promoting greater competitiveness of europe's defence industry in close cooperation with national authorities and industry representatives. one important initiative in that context is our efforts aimed at promoting awareness of the importance of standardisation issues for the efficiency and competitiveness of the european defence industries and to investigate options and possible start-up actions for defence standards reform. these issues were fully explored at an important conference last autumn, attended by the principal interested partners. on that occasion the european standardisation organisation, cen, was identified as the ideal forum to implement this effort in the form of a handbook of defence standards and defence procedures which, when in place, will offer more transparency, improving interoperability, harmonisation of requirements and cost efficiency in procurement. this process is now well under way. as regards the industry itself, there has been a huge transformation of the defence industrial landscape, particularly in the eurospace and electronic sectors. good progress has also been made in the land armament and naval sectors. it is to be expected that once this transformation has been completed and fully implemented the industry will formulate new expectations as regards access to defence markets in europe and abroad. to allow the necessary time to formulate these positions it has been agreed that the planned meeting of defence industry cos with commissioners concerned should take place by the end of the year, preferably now in the early autumn.
would i be correct, commissioner, in summing up your thorough answer in one word, "no", i.e. the commission is not going to do anything? when i spoke to you some months ago in this very chamber you said that by autumn we will have made progress. but it seems to me that what you are saying is that the commission is not going to do anything to follow up its communication or its action plan. what you have said is a summary of what has happened up to now but not an indication that there really is going to be dynamic action in the foreseeable future, as it is autumn now.
mr president, i should like to say to the commissioner that, at a time of violent clashes in genoa and concern over globalisation, the outcome of the bonn summit should have renewed peoples' faith in the political process. i hope so – it certainly did mine. together with mr pronk and the belgian presidency, you have achieved a great deal. you provided an immense service to the environment and strengthened european influence. i would like to congratulate and thank you. i was pleased with aspects of the deal, the compromise over nuclear power for example was as good as we could get. but overall the agreement is weak. what matters, however, is the process that has now been established. i know that mr de roo has instructed me in the past about how the process and the importance of it cannot be overestimated, pointing for example at the way in which the montreal protocol has been developed into a really effective instrument from a rather poor beginning over the past decade. but the kyoto process is going to be very much harder. the priorities are to have it ratified, to get our own member states to implement effective action plans, and not only to launch emissions trading but to prove that it can work, which is the hardest task of all. and if we can make it work, then i hope that american business will be attracted and the whole political climate across the globe will change. you have still a lot to do. the vast majority in this house will strongly support you in your continuing efforts. i thank you again.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. – mr president, i apologise to mr schmitt and to mr collins for the fact that i was delayed elsewhere and did not hear their introductory remarks. the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, of which i was the draftsman, was unanimously carried and we are delighted to see that many of our recommendations have been endorsed by the two rapporteurs. we have to move on from the old excuses, the legal challenges mounted by iata and the opposition to even modest voluntary agreements which we still hear on some sides. this is essentially a matter of the safety, as well as of the convenience, of the consumer. for that reason we particularly welcome the adoption of amendments on consumer health and safety in the schmitt report's emphasis on the provision of information on health and safety requirements for airline passengers and the collins report's adoption of the proposal that there should be an evaluation of health risk and research into matters like deep-vein thrombosis. the fact is that passengers today suffer not merely from being dumped from airlines, from the problem of lost baggage, but from other things which are often not the fault of the airlines themselves. they principally suffer from a lack of information. if the new agency does one thing, like the food standards agency which we are about to set up, it must be open, it must be transparent. we need to see how its investigations work. we need to see how its personnel are selected. it must be done on the basis of merit and without any links to the industry. all of those are possible if we adopt these two reports. i hope the house will give an emphatic welcome in the vote tomorrow.
mr president, on behalf of the green group i would like to welcome both of these reports. in the limited speaking time i have, i want to focus on just one aspect and that is the health aspects of flying. it is true to say that in the past the airlines have been woefully neglecting passengers' health. that is beginning to change but there is still a long way to go. i particularly welcome the fact that mr collins has devoted a clear section in his report to health and i strongly support his calls for the airlines to be far more proactive in giving information about health risks. we need far greater clarity. information should be available when you book your ticket. it needs to be there in doctors' surgeries. there needs to be a health briefing in the same form as the current safety briefing on board, including advice on the preventative measures that can be taken. of course life is not risk-free but there has to be a balance in that risk and if people know what the choices are, they are more likely to be able to make an informed judgement. on deep-vein thrombosis for example, although for over ten years there have been reports of people getting blood clots after travelling by plane no comprehensive independent research has been carried out. according to a recent report in the lancet by a london-based consultant, as many as one in ten people get blood clots of some kind on long-haul flights. clearly serious health risks are very slight for the vast majority but for a few they are very real. we need to respond to that in terms of both research and the action resulting from that research. more space in aircraft, for example, and less emphasis in getting as many people on board, in as small a place as possible with as much profit as possible. there was another example in the press this morning. a canadian researcher was saying that as a result of air recycling in the cabin some passengers are at risk of catching diseases as serious as tuberculosis. his claims have been refuted by the airlines. the issue here is not the rights or wrongs of this latest allegation but the fact that this type of uncertainty will continue unless we have a new proactive strategy based on more and better research, appropriate action by the airlines and better information to the public.
mr president, like motherhood and apple pie, no-one could possibly be against safety, especially when it involves aeroplanes. but make no mistake: the real agenda of this proposal is further political integration. for, as the commission so eloquently puts it in its own document, it intends to create the european aviation safety agency through the gradual integration of national systems. that seems to me to be a driving force for the whole of the european union – the gradual integration of national systems. i wish that phrase could be plastered in massive letters on billboards around the united kingdom so that my fellow subjects could really understand what is really going on. as mr duisenberg put it recently when he described the euro as a symbol of political integration, we have here yet another symbol – the european aviation safety agency. but what is particularly striking here, apart from the fact that we already have an independent intergovernmental agency in the joint aviation authority, is the stark admission that continued intergovernmental cooperation is to be abandoned as it is developed and i quote from the rapporteur's report: "would have involved lengthy ratification procedures in the national parliaments of the states concerned . . ., which would not necessarily have been successful". how awkward and inconvenient democracy is. rather like the irish population when they run a referendum, you can never rely on it to behave. much easier, therefore, to create another european institution and get rid of the whole messy business. administratively convenient it may be, democracy it is not. but it is symbolic of the european union's experience. given the aviation content here, and with due deference to the rapporteur, i can only conclude with a phrase that really will not translate from the english: "what a messerschmidt".
mr president, i should like to congratulate mr collins on his report, which i believe brings a sensible compromise to the commission's proposal. as aviation is the most regulated form of transport, i welcome the commitment by the industry, as agreed in lisbon in may, to implement the voluntary passenger service commitment. this is undoubtedly the best way forward as over-regulation would be extremely damaging to the aviation industry europe-wide, and in particular in the united kingdom, and would result in our being uncompetitive. the report is explicit in saying that the desire to protect air passengers should not hinder competition, whilst at the same time the voluntary agreement is comprehensive and detailed in those areas which need to be improved. i hope the commission will resist in bringing forward legislative proposals as it is only right and proper that the industry should be given sufficient time to implement fully this agreement. on one tiny point here from mr collins: the uk is the only country which has in place a minimum seat pitch requirement for safety reasons and i therefore believe that the european union could follow that example. turning to the schmitt report, we should congratulate mr schmitt on clarifying and improving the commission's proposals, although i still have deep reservations in a number of areas. nevertheless i believe that there is general agreement that a pan-european body is required in particular in the area of aircraft manufacture, although there is still ambiguity in relation to icao rules, which clearly state that both individual certification of aircraft and design changes and modifications are the responsibility of states of registering. finally despite asking the commission on a number of occasions, we are still unclear as to the future role of national civil aviation authorities, the jaa, as the proposed regulation does not define its parameters. in addition, i believe at this stage efforts should be concentrated on achieving uniform applicability of icao, jaa, and eurocontrol standards that are already in existence. the ec should not seek to parallel and create unwilling distortions of the current icao-based safety framework. i look forward to the commission's response.
mr president, i welcome the proposals to provide legal rights for passengers as well as the increase in denied boarding compensation and the right to reimbursement for delayed flights. the idea of new contract standards between carriers and consumers is not only welcome but long overdue. to be delayed is a nuisance. to be denied information as to the cause of the delay, with little by way of an apology or compensation, is unacceptable. hopefully, with the support of the airlines and the work done by mr collins in the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, things will now change for the better. we can never take aviation safety for granted. today my colleague mrs cerdeira told me of the tragic crash last week of an old cn-235, converted from military use, on a melilla to malaga flight, with loss of life. i extend the sympathies of mrs cerdeira and myself to the relatives of the victims. regarding the contributions of mr titford, i assumed he was speaking in a personal capacity. only people with a bizarre outlook on life and a peculiar political perspective can downgrade the importance of aviation safety in the pursuit of their own nationalistic objectives. safety should never be used as a political football. i condemn mr titford for so doing.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate mr collins on his excellent report and indeed for accepting my amendments on the health aspects of air travel. brenda wilson is a greater manchester constituent of mine who is an active campaigner for the aviation health institute, an organisation working internationally to improve air passenger health. tragically her son neil died of a deep-vein thrombosis after a short flight to benidorm. he is one of an alleged 2000 air travellers who, according to some in the medical profession, die each year from deep-vein thrombosis, not just long haul, not just economy class, and therefore there is growing concern about the potential link between air travel and blood clots. the research is ambiguous. the world health organisation is putting gbp 7 million into research and i am asking you tonight to give your commitment to a european union study to look at potential links between dvt and air travel and preventative action. i am also asking the commission to take up the idea in my amendment on improved health briefings and health warnings on tickets in advance of flying. this will allow passengers, as consumers, to exercise the choice perhaps not to drink alcohol, perhaps to take aspirin three or four days before flying or to wear these new compression socks which help regulate blood flow in the legs. there is no need to be an alarmist. we know that air travel is safe but there is nonetheless a small risk for some passengers that they may develop blood clots. we owe it to our european passengers to increase our knowledge and science in this area. i would like your assurance that you will now respond to our call for research and meet as a matter of priority with the aviation industry to look at improved health warnings on tickets. we are in favour of voluntary action but if it is true that the airlines have known for 30 years about the risks of dvt then maybe we need legislation.
commission. - mr president, i should like to say first of all that we are discussing two initiatives of a different nature. one is a legislative one, concerning the creation of a european aviation safety agency. another concerns parliament's report on the commission communication on the protection of air passengers' rights. i would like to congratulate both rapporteurs most sincerely. i shall start with the initiative to set up a european aviation safety agency. i would also like to congratulate mr schmitt on his work. in proposing common rules in the field of civil aviation and the creation of a european aviation safety agency, the commission has kept in mind the objective of achieving a high and uniform level of safety, which is a key element in air transport. and perhaps the ultimate and first of the passenger rights. a level of safety throughout the european union and also greater environmental protection. this system of common rules will also have the effect of promoting the internal market and strengthening the competitiveness of the european aeronautical industry and is certainly an important element for the airbus project. from now on, a single certificate will be sufficient to offer its products on the entire european market, while access to external markets will be simplified, thanks to the conclusion of agreements allowing for the harmonization and mutual recognition of certificates. the proposal you are considering today is therefore a considerable step forward, particularly in view of the objectives it pursues, but it is also a real innovation in the field of community integration, given that, up to now, the civil aviation sector has been strongly influenced by the sovereignty of states and intergovernmental cooperation - a point which was noted earlier by the speakers. as regards the implementation of the community's objectives, the commission is empowered to adopt the appropriate technical rules and administrative procedures. the creation of this specialised agency is intended to assist the commission in its implementation tasks, but the agency also has its own powers, since in some cases it will replace the national administrations in issuing certificates of conformity of products with community regulations - i repeat, for the airbus project it is key, as mr jarzembowski said a moment ago - and in others it will supervise the issuing of certificates by the national administrations. the committees of parliament which have worked on this text have understood the importance of the invitation and i thank them for their support of the commission's proposal. as regards the amendments tabled, i would point out that the commission can support most of them, since they improve and clarify our initial proposal. in fact, many of them are similar to the observations made by the council itself and will thus be incorporated in the consolidated amended proposal, either in part or, in some cases, with slight stylistic adaptations. the commission can also wholeheartedly support the reinforcement of the powers of the executive director, to which the rapporteur referred in his speech, and the provisions on budgetary control of the agency. we cannot accept some of the amendments proposed. i'm going to quote them with their numbers and explain why. firstly, we do not think it appropriate to include the agency's revenue and therefore its entire budget in the budget of the european union. this decision would be contrary to the flexibility of management which we want for this body. the commission cannot therefore support amendments nos 4 and 56. there are amendments which would threaten to cause confusion, would make it difficult to implement or would be outside the scope of the proposal and should therefore be rejected. i am referring to amendments nos 3, 15, 17, 19, 28, 29, 54 and 65. i would also point out that 5 and 62, which refer to the scope of the regulation, cannot be accepted as such either, although in this case we can accept as a commitment to submit proposals in the year following the adoption of the regulation, with regard to air operations and staff licences. with regard to the other areas, we cannot accept the definitive exclusion of airports. we can only accept that proposals in these areas be submitted subsequently. as regards the publication of the results of the inspections of the national administrations, as set out in amendments nos 24 and 30, the commission does not consider it appropriate to do so, since it concerns confidential information, which could be the basis for infringement proceedings. it also complies with regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 on public access to community institutions' documents. i should also like to stress the amendments relating to the independence of the agency, namely nos 21, 32, 42, 43, 45, 53, 64, 70 and 71. we all want it to be independent when it acts in technical areas, but that does not mean that it can escape all kinds of political control. we want independence from the administrations, or the various lobbies that may exist in this sector, which are naturally very active, and not independence from the community institutions because, i insist, there must be political control in any case. the commission cannot therefore accept suggestions that would reduce its power of control over the agency. however, amendment no 36, which reflects parliament's wish not to participate in the agency's management board, seems to us to be entirely appropriate, if parliament so considers it. the work being done in your institution, as well as in the council, shows that we are moving towards a consensus on almost all points of this dossier, except for the influence of the states and the community on the control of the agency. it is therefore important for the commission to get parliament's support on this issue. let me congratulate your rapporteur again and thank you for the excellent work you have done. as regards the commission communication on the protection of passengers' rights, first of all i would like to congratulate mr collins on a thorough and stimulating report which i have read with great interest. i have concluded from this reading that parliament and the commission agree to a large extent. we both attach high priority to the protection of passengers and agree that this protection must be ensured by two means, which are not contradictory but complementary: voluntary agreements between airlines and mandatory legislation. finally, i shall briefly summarize the actions planned for the coming year, which, as you will see, fully reflect your concerns and your approaches. firstly, the follow-up of voluntary commitments. we fully agree that these agreements must include a mechanism for monitoring compliance if they are to be effective and functional and therefore credible to travellers. the next few months will see intensive work on monitoring measures and the out-of-court settlement of disputes. i have even had a meeting with the airlines, and i have made it very clear to them that this is a key issue - and i believe we can reach solutions acceptable to everyone. in addition, passengers need to be well informed at all times, from the moment they plan their journey to the flight itself, as mr ojeda was saying a moment ago. the airlines have made a serious commitment to improve information in accordance with their voluntary commitments. as regards consumer reports comparing the performance of airlines, we will soon be launching an experiment to test methods and then to examine legislation in the light of experience. it's the key. some passenger interests are so important that they must be protected by legal rights. in particular, we intend to propose legislation to parliament and the council in two specific areas: denied boarding and flight cancellations. as regards the first issue, we have drawn up a draft and are now improving it, thanks to the comments of the various interested parties. the second issue concerns the contracts of airlines with their customers. at the end of the year we will present a consultation paper and, after receiving the corresponding reactions, we will draw up a proposal. in the document we shall pay great attention to the rights of disabled people, a matter which has also been highlighted by some of the honourable members, and we look forward to the rapid adoption by parliament and the council of the regulation to implement the rules of the montreal convention on the liability of airlines in the community, so that these new rules will come into force by the end of next year. finally, i would like to refer to something which has been highlighted by several speakers and, lastly, by mrs mccarthy, and which concerns us all: the health problems of passengers. we believe it is essential to make a thorough and exhaustive assessment of the risks of air travel. that is why we are funding research on cabin conditions within the fifth framework programme and considering how best to support the studies on deep vein thrombosis initiated by the world health organization. i should like to say that i have personally written to all the airline presidents to draw attention to this problem and to ask them to take measures to alleviate it now, using the knowledge they have. in any event, although both initiatives will take some time, they will provide a sound basis for policy making and we will keep you fully informed. in conclusion, mr president, i am glad to note the similar sensitivity of parliament and the commission, and that the other day on a flight of a company which was delayed by more than 20 minutes, we were informed that we were entitled to free travel on the same company for a month on the same route, precisely because there had been a delay of more than 20 minutes, according to the conditions they set out in their contract. i would like to say that our concern, our actions, those of parliament and the commission, are already having concrete consequences for citizens, users and consumers.
mr president, just a quick question to the commissioner: we have stated on a number of occasions in the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism that we are still unclear as to the future role of the national civil aviation authorities and the jaa as the proposed regulation does not define its parameters. i would be very grateful for the commission's response. it may not be possible this evening, but i would like more clarification on that area.
mr president, i welcome what i believe we will all agree is an exemplary piece of work. we now have a comprehensive blueprint for the way in which cultural policy could operate in the union. the rapporteur has worked particularly well with the initiator of policy and legislation in the european commission. i should like to make a few points. first of all we have to acknowledge in this house and beyond that the creative and knowledge industries have become a driver in our new global economy and that the skills that we need therein have become vital to our performance in the european economy. more than this, the social and philosophical needs that we have in mastering the cultural question become central to ensuring that we have stability in our globalised world. this means that we have to recognise the importance of funding for cultural activities. we have to face some very difficult questions: for instance, an increasingly small part of our economy in the new global world is agriculture. the common agricultural policy, as we all know, takes a vast amount of our funds. if we are to recognise the primacy of the knowledge and information economy in the new global economy then we have to face the reality of looking at different priorities for our fundings. all the measures in the ruffolo report are deliverable, but in order to deliver we must ensure that we have cooperation across institutions and at different levels of government. this means that we must look, for instance, at the structural funds and the way in which we monitor the amount of money that is spent on cultural activities. recently a commission official said to me that we could not do this. i have to inform him that all he needs do is to go to any of the municipalities in the union and they will tell him how to do it. that is what officials are employed to do. he could even look at the single programming documents in order to do this. it is possible to do it when we need to. i say this not to slight the commission or their staff but to say that cooperation is needed in order to achieve what mr ruffolo, in such an exemplary manner, has set out.
- the minutes of the previous session have been circulated. are there any observations ?
mr president, this concerns a matter arising from the minutes in connection with the distribution of the report promised by mr kinnock in response to my oral question on monday, which was raised in the chamber yesterday afternoon. i should like to confirm that this report is available. i received it by e-mail from mr kinnock’s office, but as far as i can tell it has not yet been officially distributed to members. i know that mr kinnock was very keen that we should all have it as soon as possible so can i ask you once again to make sure that this is distributed. on the same topic could i ask you, mr president, on behalf of all the members of this parliament, if we could have a similar report to the one prepared by the commission on the progress of the human resource reforms as regards the work that is going on with the staff of parliament. we are currently in a position where we know less about the progress of the personnel reforms in this house than we do in the commission. could i ask you to discuss with your colleagues and arrange for a statement and a report to be made to this house as soon as possible about the progress of these crucial reforms which were solidly supported by the house when it approved my report last year?
- on the first point, i was present when the president made a commitment to have mr kinnock's report circulated. i'll have the services make sure that's done. as regards the second point, the bureau of parliament is meeting tonight. i regret that i will not be taking part in it, but i will ask that the matter be referred to the bureau this evening. (the minutes were approved)
- the next item is the report (a5-0264/2001) by mr gerhard schmid, on behalf of the temporary committee on the echelon interception system, on the existence of a global system for the interception of private and economic communications (the echelon interception system) (2001/2098 (ini)).
mr president, i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, gerhard schmid, and other colleagues on the committee. as mr schmid said, he had at the beginning a very difficult brief. let us remember that the pressure for this report came as a result of some quite fanciful journalism in different countries and some wild, weird and wonderful assertions, most of which served to undermine the very case that the authors themselves were trying to make. the surprise of this report is the fact that very few of these allegations are substantiated. several speakers this morning have referred to the uk’s role in this matter. the report acknowledges that every state in the european union and elsewhere in the world needs some sort of interception to protect national security, safeguard its economy and fight crime. that is nothing exceptional. all the member states do it, cooperating with each other and with other friendly democratic countries. for example, to counter terrorism threats we need to collaborate with those who have the right skills and can help. i know the united states is helping spain in its current difficulties. the uk also already ensures that any operations on uk soil are carried out with the full knowledge and consent of the uk government and are subject to uk law. that means – i hope mrs mckenna is listening – that everything is compatible with the european convention on human rights. i hope we can put to rest some of the assertions and allegations that are still flying around about what is going on in the uk as well. furthermore, the uk stands completely by the conclusion reached in council that in no circumstances may telecommunications interceptions be used to gain commercial advantage. numerous allegations were made before the report was published. they have been repeated today by a colleague who has since left and, as mr schmid will testify and the report shows, there is no evidence to substantiate them. i thank the rapporteur on his very comprehensive report and mr coelho for chairing the committee.
rapporteur. – madam president, i have the honour to bring this report to the house on behalf of the committee on citizens’ freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs. it was felt appropriate for the chairman of the committee to pilot through the house a report on a matter which requires a wide consensus of support. as a liberal democrat, i regard terrorist acts as a unique category of crime which negates democracy. they are designed to destroy the very basis of civil society and i am grateful to committee colleagues for their support for this view and for our subsequent recommendations. there are some who see my report as a response to current terrorist attacks on the iberian peninsula. i share the profound concern of those who recognise this as an open wound in europe’s polity and on behalf of the committee i extend to them my deepest sympathy and solidarity. in my mind, however, my analysis and recommendations should be no more and no less a response to the situation there than to similar situations which have existed, and in some cases continue to pose a threat, in northern ireland, in the uk, in corsica, in france, in germany, in italy or other countries which have been subject to attack by ideological terrorist groups. terrorism is not a new phenomenon, but today it has many new aspects and features. links between terrorists in different countries now form part of the fretwork of internationally organised crime. in august, we saw evidence of contacts between terrorists in northern ireland and their counterparts in colombia. such links enhance the capacity of those who use terror for political ends to find weapons, exchange ideas on techniques and escape the arm of the law. terrorism is also inspired by new motives and new weapons. some animal welfare groups launch campaigns to terrorise those connected, sometimes only tenuously, to experiments on live animals. some environmental protection groups harass those involved in oil exploration or exploitation. computer terrorism and environmental terrorism are worrying features of today’s world. previous attempts by democratic societies to tackle this threat have met with varying success. where they have signally failed is in the field of international cooperation between law enforcement agencies or judicial authorities. in the case of the european union, the tools to improve such cooperation are provided by articles 29 and 31 of the teu and yet governments have hesitated to use them. such reluctance is strangely out of place in a union founded on the values of humanity and dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity, respect for human rights and freedoms and the rule of law. the decision of member states to make the union an area of freedom, security and justice should provide a basis for urgency in tackling a growing terrorist challenge. an unqualified rejection of terrorist organisations and of terrorism should lead to a coherent and binding set of coordinated policies and a spirit of cooperation between governments at all levels. cooperation between france and spain or between britain and ireland has improved in recent months and yet the opportunities offered by the amsterdam treaty for more effective action have not been grasped. i would like to thank members from all parties in this house for their generous advice and assistance to me in drawing up this report. the report commands a wide consensus of opinion. i am pleased that it opposes the introduction of exceptional laws and procedures. such measures should not be necessary. they frequently deprive governments of moral superiority and can descend into instances of state-sponsored terrorism. herein lies a potential danger to democracy. where the state is not prepared scrupulously to pursue criminal actions against soldiers or policemen guilty of torture, it has little legitimacy. nonetheless i am opposed to amendment no 2, which could be interpreted as justifying terrorism and to amendment no 1, which would delay action in this fight. i believe that the legal systems of all the eu member states have the capacity to guarantee justice. that is not to say that judicial standards could not be higher. they could be, and raising them is a major challenge for the union. unless we are prepared to trust each other’s judicial systems and democratic practices, however, more and more families will be deprived of their loved ones as innocent people lose their lives to those who murder for political ends. my report therefore calls on the council of ministers to establish common minimal laws and penalties to counter terrorist acts, to abolish formal extradition procedures for those suspected or convicted of terrorist crimes and to establish a european search and arrest warrant in the fight against terrorist groups. some may regard such measures as extreme. i believe that all are justified in tackling a form of crime designed to destroy democracy based on the rule of law and i hope that the commission and council will respond early to this call for action. (applause)
mr president, terrorism is the destruction of democracy. there can be no successful dialogue with criminal terrorism for it is a lie incarnate. releasing terrorist prisoners and seeking to buy them off with places in rigged government is exalting terrorism and not eliminating it. northern ireland is an example, with all terrorist prisoners from both sides released while not one murder weapon has been decommissioned by either side. the tormented victims of brutal terrorism are largely forgotten. i welcome this report’s action call on this issue to look after the interests of these tormented victims and its emphasis on the immediate need to ensure that there is no sanctuary for terrorism in this european union. action on that is imperative.
mr president, may i first of all take the opportunity to congratulate mr watson on the preparation of this report. it is a very balanced and very good report. terrorism has been a major problem in the western world and in europe it has been prevalent certainly since the second world war. it has been proved that a dedicated few can hold a majority to ransom. we have to face up to the fact that there has not been full cooperation between member states. we in northern ireland have experienced that very painfully over the past 30 years. if terrorists have a safe haven they will continue to flourish because they have somewhere to retreat to. we must end safe havens. i have some reservations, in that if you abolish extradition what you put in its place may not be effective. if we do abolish extradition, whatever replaces it must work and must be seen to work, especially between member states. the member states must be free to protect their citizens. i believe it is the duty of every member state government to protect the innocent, not the perpetrators of violence. there must be maximum cooperation to achieve this. we also see terrorist cooperation throughout the world. the recent arrest of three ira activists in columbia brings home very clearly how widespread terrorism is throughout the world and how terrorists cooperate in the development of new and better weapons. we also have to recognise that many terrorist organisations are involved in racketeering, drug smuggling and many other forms of normal criminal activity. they use certain words and pseudonyms. they threaten the communities in which they live. we have to recognise the victims. there must be mutual recognition. no one has the right to murder in the attempt to achieve a political objective. we must also remember it is easy to terrorise: i have experience of this. but believe you me, it is much more difficult to build peace after the terrorism.
rapporteur. – madam president, i want to clarify my remarks of yesterday on my report to avoid any misunderstanding on inter-country adoption by spanish families of romanian children in the last ten years. i can say categorically that the vast majority of these cases have been processed fully and properly by the spanish authorities and by the families in question. indeed i know that they have resulted in many happy outcomes, some of which are known to my spanish colleagues here in parliament. i can add that the authorities in the european union member states have, of course, been acting with full propriety on this sensitive matter and that none have acted more rigorously than the spanish authorities. i am grateful to spanish colleagues here for drawing this need for clarification to my attention and in particular to mr gil-robles gil-delgado and mr salafranca sánchez-neyra. i look forward to continued fruitful cooperation with all of my spanish colleagues in this parliament in the future.
in writing. - the british conservatives voted in favour of the watson report to signal that they will not back down in the fight against terrorism, and in particular to show solidarity with our colleagues involved in the current fight against terrorism, and particularly eta. however, while the conservatives may boast of a longstanding commitment to fighting terrorism, they have also long expressed concerns about excessive interference and politicization in relevant legal processes. we are concerned that the extension of the community's competence in this area will impede the ability of the member states to take the measures they consider necessary to tackle this problem. we believe that it is premature to give europol far-reaching powers and we remain convinced that the diversity of national legal traditions means that cooperation, not harmonisation, is the way forward. under no circumstances will we support those who seek to use force to undermine legitimate democratic institutions.
in writing. - i regret that i am not in a position to support the request for parliamentary unanimity on this report. as a member of the green group, i always choose the path of non-violence and i believe that there is absolutely no justification for violence as a means of achieving change in a democratic state. where the ballot box is an option, violence is not. i welcome the distinctions made in recital t for third countries. my negative vote should not be construed as support for terrorism, but it is based on one key factor. this is the mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters. unless common minimum standards on procedural law are agreed, this should not be implemented. we cannot use the fight against terrorism to undermine the legal procedures and democratic safeguards which differ from one member state to another. parliament has chosen not to adopt amendment no 1, which would have required these minimum standards. i must also admit that i am underlyingly uncomfortable in supporting a report which omits certain issues such as state terrorism, the banning of certain organisations active in non-eu countries, the basis for these decisions, and, of course, the lack of a definition of 'eco-terrorism'. however, the lack of commitment to minimum legal safeguards is the decisive factor in my negative vote.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of this reform although i have many reservations about the effects of certain recommendations. i do so in the hope that we will see a serious cooperation between the member states to eradicate violence and terrorism. ulster unionists have opposed violence for decades and will continue to do so in the future. we are witnessing the globalisation of terrorism with the arrest in colombia of three ira activists. this shows us how far terrorism and the effects of terrorism have spread.
in writing. - (de) the report by mr schmitt has the support of the majority of my group. the advantages of establishing a european-level agency for aviation safety, instead of 15 different national bodies, are undeniable. it allows the establishment of authorisation procedures, aviation safety and environmental protection regulations and safety regulations relating to uniform products, persons and institutions. it also opens the way to a recognised partner for foreign air navigation authorities. the agency's functions are clearly defined: expertise, technical support to the commission, preparation of the necessary files, inspections and investigations, monitoring of the application of regulations, development and financing of research projects, cooperation with third countries. in the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, other important amendments were welcomed. these proposals should help to strengthen the agency's independence from the commission and define the agency's information obligation towards the european parliament. my group also attaches great importance to the provisions on enhanced transparency. the agency is subject to the general budgetary procedure, governed by the community rules on the fight against fraud, and subject to regular external evaluation. for all these reasons, we voted in favour by a majority.
in writing. - i would like to warmly welcome the report by mr schmitt, which calls for the creation of a european aviation safety agency to improve aviation safety. if this proposal is successful, a high and uniform level of safety in civil aviation will be created, with common safety requirements. there are many benefits, both financial and practical, to be gained from the creation of a single pan-european aviation safety agency: if various national regulatory and certification procedures can be replaced by a single, uniform european system, many imbalances will be removed. this will ultimately lead to lower costs, standardisation of procedures and, most importantly, less paperwork and red tape. it is easier to control one security system than to control fifteen. it is extremely important that passengers feel safe when travelling with airlines, and the establishment of common european rules on civil aviation will help to achieve this.
madam president, i wish to associate myself with the comments just made by mr vatanen. i too did not support the jürgen schröder report, specifically because paragraphs 43 and 44 call into question the completion of the temelin nuclear power plant and, in fact, contradict the earlier paragraph 42 which welcomes the melk accord between the czech republic, the austrian government and the european commission in december 2000. the content of that accord and, in particular, the investigations into the environmental impact assessment that was agreed, have substantially been carried out. on my examination of the information there are no safety reasons why the commissioning of number 1 reactor should not proceed. on the basis of this contradiction in the report i did not support it.
madam president, on the nicholson report, i voted against it because paragraph 20 seeks to delay the completion of the second nuclear reactor at cernavoda. it is a “candu” nuclear reactor of western design. there are no safety implications involved. paragraph 20 of the report calls for the creation of a sustainable energy strategy. that strategy has already been put in place. it has been paid for through the phare programme. i am surprised that a committee like the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy seems to be unaware of this fact. for that reason i voted against the nicholson report. that particular item was inaccurate, unnecessary and an aggravation to a country which is seeking to join us. i wish that the anti-nuclear people on these committees would realise that this constant sniping at the applicant countries on this issue is not doing our relations with them any good at all.
in writing. - i appreciate the hard work of my friend and colleague jacques poos in preparing this report, but i regret that i cannot vote for it in the final vote. if the amendments tabled by my friend andrew duff had been adopted, i would have been able to support the report. europe in recent years has seen and accepted the separation of the czech republic and slovakia, the dissolution of the former soviet union and the gradual disintegration of yugoslavia. yet it seems that we are not able to accept the rights of the turkish cypriot population to a separate administration, and, of course, if that objective cannot be achieved, the right to secede from the republic of cyprus and to pursue the path of self-determination, when they are by no means the smallest country in the world. the turkish cypriots have the same right to self-determination as the greek cypriots. for many years greek cypriots have sought enosis (union) with greece. the turkish cypriots should be given the same right, although i prefer two equal states, united in a kind of bi-communal bi-zonal federation within the european union.
in writing. - (de) european air traffic is growing rapidly and this trend is confirmed for the coming years. the growing importance of protecting air transport users, passengers, their safety and health and their consumer rights goes hand in hand with the growth of air traffic, especially as new forms of booking and purchasing air tickets, encouraged by the use of the internet, bring benefits as well as risks. the commission proposal on which the report is based improves the protection of passengers, particularly in the information on the defence of their rights as passengers. at the same time, it also gives airlines the possibility of setting voluntary commitments to airports themselves. i particularly welcome the proposal to strengthen the legal framework for consumer protection, because it opens the way to clear, binding and enforceable regulations which all airlines must respect. experience shows that such a legal framework is necessary to assist the individual user in his or her rights in the event of a dispute. this does not mean that i am opposed to voluntary commitments in principle, but i would prefer that rules be introduced in airline/airport relations which can be enforced by a court of law. it is not given, however. the question therefore arises as to who should monitor compliance with the commitments or who should take action against non-compliance with these commitments by what means. on the basis of these considerations, we also support the request by mr collins that the commission should address at a later stage, and if necessary in the context of additional own proposals, the issues which could not be sufficiently clarified for the benefit of consumers in the context of the voluntary commitment. i would therefore like to give my support to the collins report on behalf of my group.
in writing. - i very warmly welcome the report by mr collins, which calls on the european commission to allocate research funds to study the risks to passengers on long-haul flights. in view of the current concerns about the health risks of long-distance flights, such as deep vein thrombosis, this report is timely. the report also goes so far as to recommend additional measures to protect the rights of all european citizens, such as those with disabilities. in addition, the report's recommendation to appoint a european air passenger ombudsman, to whom passengers can complain when faced with problems with airlines, would help to grant rights to european citizens who have had problems with european airlines. finally, the request for a simplified complaint procedure would simplify and demystify complaint procedures for european citizens. this would be a victory for ordinary citizens over big business.
in writing. - given that parliament has deliberately limited itself to the nature of the inquiry, many elements in this report are to be welcomed. i am glad that the existence of the eschelon system is recognized and that the need for transparent international agreements is acknowledged. however, i voted against this report for three main reasons. firstly, i believe that the member states involved in the eschelon system must disengage from this dark, undemocratic system - the report does not mention this clearly. secondly, i feel that the report coldly accepts the fact that the eu must have a system of espionage as an integral part of the cfsp. i believe that the cfsp threatens freedoms such as free access to information and privacy. we know that whatever safeguards are written on paper, they will never be put into practice. thirdly, the consequences of such a system on individuals are not clear. if the report goes on to talk about the need for privacy, as well as the need for surveillance of intelligence agencies, what should individuals do? they can't communicate with confidence anymore. there is no real answer. that is why i cannot support the report.
madam president, in spite of what was said earlier on the other side of this house, it is clear that the police exercised systematic physical and psychological torture in genoa. like others, i regret that we do not have a resolution in front of us in which we could have expressed our complete condemnation of police brutality and of the violence of the black block at genoa, our conviction that those responsible must be brought to justice, our commitment to uphold the right to protest peacefully, and our determination to clarify the growing evidence that much of the violence and damage to property which occurred in genoa was the work of agents provocateurs. but we have another task before us and that is to address the reasons fully why 300 000 people chose – in their own time, and at their own expense – to go to genoa, just as hundreds of thousands have gone to seattle, to gothenburg and elsewhere to demonstrate about the continuing debt burden of the poor, about the increasing and grotesque inequalities between rich and poor and about the growing corporate control of many aspects of our lives. that means that we need to confront the reality that the neo-liberal economic policies of the european union are currently part of the problem, not the solution. for example, it is the eu which is ruthlessly driving forward the agenda for a new, ambitious, comprehensive round of trade talks at doha in november in the face of opposition from the majority of developing countries and of social movements around the world. commissioner vitorino said that there was agreement in mexico last weekend. well, there might have been agreement between the quad countries, but it certainly was not endorsed by the african countries, the ldcs, india, malaysia, indonesia, the list goes on. moreover, in most eu member states, the level of official development assistance remains far below the un target and, contrary to the gothenburg declaration, the council is proposing for its 2002 budget a further 3.2% cut in commitments on foreign aid compared to last year’s budget. as members of the european parliament, we have a responsibility to ensure that the citizens of the european union continue to enjoy the right to protest peacefully. we also have a responsibility to listen to what they are demonstrating about and to respond because, if we do not, we cannot be surprised if the reputation of the eu institutions as remote and out of touch continues to grow.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. – mr president, i welcome the commission’s strategy on cybercrime. this is, as mrs cederschiöld said, a very controversial and difficult area which raises issues of how to regulate the internet and yet not stifle its development; and also significant issues regarding crime surveillance and privacy, data protection and retention, yet we need to be aware the cybercriminals do not respect our personal integrity. we now have a growing phenomenon of so-called data streaming – hacking into computer systems and stealing credit card details in bulk. the total cost loss to the uk last year was gbp300 million, an increase of 55% on 1999. we need more secure systems if we are to boost consumer confidence in using the internet. commissioner, in your strategy i want you to prioritise tackling the very disturbing growth in child pornography on the internet. we need to clamp down on sexual exploitation of children. again, there has been a very massive growth in cross-border child pornography. in the uk, members of the so-called “wonderland club”, an internet paedophilia ring, were arrested and found to have sites in 12 different european countries. in my own region, the greater manchester obscene publications unit has had success in cracking down on paedophilia with new internet tracing software. that is why, with the backing of many of the children’s organisations across the european union, we are calling for a number of actions. we want you to look at the possibility of involving credit card companies and internet service providers in supporting the blacklisting of sites trading in illegal pornographic content. we want to see the expansion of 24-hour hotlines and electronic watchtowers. we want to see the creation of a european rating system for child-friendly internet providers and the display of child safety messages. we want child pornography on news groups blocked. we want closer involvement by europol in prosecuting cyber paedophiles and better cooperation between european law enforcement agencies. the european union must act to ensure that there are no safe havens in europe for cyber paedophiles. our message, therefore, is that we are stepping up our action and closing down these sites. we want you, commissioner, to take action in this area.
the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. this had already begun in the context of the institutional agreement, with several trilogues and a consultation meeting in july on the day the council adopted the draft budget for the financial year 2002. i know that during the last discussions in your committee on budgets there were many members who regretted the results of this consultation, because they cannot be seen as real results and that makes one wonder whether this exercise is worthwhile. i would like to make two comments on that. first of all, we must see this consultation between the members of the council and parliament as the beginning of the discussion between our two arms of the budgetary authority. even if these consultations do not produce immediate results, they will influence the council's deliberations over the coming months until the end of the budgetary procedure in december. it is also true that the council's preparatory work for the july meeting was well advanced at the time of the consultations and that compromise solutions had already been found to resolve numerous difficulties which had arisen between the member states themselves. but it is also true - and you are certainly aware of this - that the package which constitutes the compromise of the draft budget has already been influenced by the positions of the european parliament, which we are aware of from the numerous contacts we have had with this institution. these contacts will begin in february and march with the informal trialogue in the capital of the presidency and will continue at various levels until the july council. i can assure you that the draft budget before you today would be very different without this permanent dialogue. today i would like to stress the importance which the belgian presidency attaches to good cooperation with parliament. i would therefore like to explain directly to you the work of the council which has led to the draft budget for 2002 which is now before you and on the basis of which you will prepare your first reading in the next two months. first of all, i should like to outline the guidelines which guided the council in drawing up this draft budget. firstly, the draft budget is in full compliance with the interinstitutional agreement of 6 may 1999 on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure. the council considers it particularly important to respect each of the annual ceilings for expenditure as set out in the financial perspective and resulting from the recent decision of the european parliament and the council on the adjustment of the financial perspective in the light of budgetary implementation and from the technical adjustment to the development of gnp and prices carried out by the commission. the council has taken care to leave sufficient margins, as far as possible, under the ceilings of the various headings with the exception of headings 2 and 7. secondly, the council took account of the budgetary guidelines for 2002 which it adopted in march of this year. you have no doubt noticed that this is the first time the council has adopted such conclusions. i believe that it is a healthy approach towards greater transparency and thus an improvement in the budgetary debate. you yourself have for some time been adopting budgetary guidelines which guide your debates throughout the budgetary procedure. the same applies to the commission, which also sets its priorities each year. the council has therefore ensured that the various measures of the european union are appropriately financed within the limits of the financial resources available and within the limits of the financial perspective. to this end, the council took account of the assessment of the possibilities for implementing the appropriations for commitment. finally, the council paid particular attention to the development of payment appropriations, limiting and controlling their growth in relation to 2001, taking account in particular of the possibilities for implementation and the expected rate of payments in relation to the amounts still to be paid and the national budgetary requirements. i would like to stress that these efforts to moderate have been spread over both compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure. i would also like to take this opportunity to remind you that the council considers it desirable that the commission once again, as it did last year, submit a note of amendments proposing that the final budget for 2002 should include an estimate of the surplus available under 2001. on the basis of all this, the draft budget for 2002 provides for an amount of commitment appropriations of eur 99.009 million, an increase of 2%, and an amount of payment appropriations of eur 95.598 million, an increase of 2%. the draft budget submitted to you is a compromise which allows all the policies and priorities of the european union to be financed without imposing too heavy a burden on the member states which are trying to keep their public finances in check, and which leaves room for improvement, particularly under the ceilings of heading 3 of the financial perspective and heading 4, which should allow for the possibility of responding to new priorities. the council allocated appropriations for commitments at a high level for structural actions, in line with the commitments made in the context of the conclusions of the berlin european council of march 1999 and the interinstitutional agreement of may 1999. the appropriations in this draft budget and the programmes adopted in the context of the codecision procedure between the european parliament and the council are in line with the jointly agreed programming. the administrative expenditure was discussed very carefully by the council. the aim has been to meet as far as possible the needs of the various institutions, taking into account their specific characteristics and the general objective of a moderate increase in administrative expenditure. i remain convinced that parliament will follow the same course in the further course of the budgetary procedure. in this connection, the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on a joint declaration at the consultations on 20 july is a good omen. the two institutions have agreed to ask the secretaries-general of the institutions to draw up a report for the budgetary authority containing a multiannual analysis of heading 5 for discussion by the budget council in november. the report should indicate the economies of scale resulting from the strengthening of interinstitutional cooperation and the saving proposals needed to keep the ceiling for heading 5 within the limits of the ceiling, in preparation for enlargement. i will not conclude this general presentation of the draft budget for 2002 without mentioning two important points on which the council has adopted a pending position, as a number of elements were missing which would not be definitively known until later in the budgetary procedure. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. as regards the financing of the consequences of bse and the foot-and-mouth disease crisis, we reached agreement at the consultations between the european parliament and the council on 20 july on a joint declaration in which the two arms of the budgetary authority take note that a sufficient margin should be set aside under the ceiling of subheading 1a of the financial perspective, as laid down in the draft budget, to cover the needs related to bse and the foot-and-mouth disease crisis. they ask the commission to present a detailed analysis of the needs and to meet them, firstly by using the appropriations still available in 2001 and secondly by including the appropriations needed in 2002 in its amending note in the autumn. as regards the financial consequences of the absence of the fisheries agreement with morocco and the financing of the restructuring of the fishing fleet concerned, the council stated that it would review the situation in the context of this year's note of amendments, which is to be adopted under the interinstitutional agreement.
, chairman of the committee on budgets. – mr president, president-in-office and commissioner liikanen – nice to see you. commissioner schreyer did say that she would be unavailable and that you would be standing in. it is like old times. i bet you are really glad to be here. thank you, president-in-office, for your kind words, but to be honest with you, i was extremely disappointed with the outcome of your first reading and especially with the way the conciliation went. maybe we were spoiled last year during the french presidency, which at least made some concessions, but this year it was back to normal. for 12 years i have made the same speech – i did not do it last year – saying that this is a budget for the council’s first reading made by coreper and the politicians have no input into it. we try to get you to make political decisions, we put forward all our arguments and spend hours doing it (we have a very nice lunch in the meantime) and we get absolutely nowhere. it is a dialogue with the deaf. we talk and talk and we change absolutely nothing when it comes to the council’s position. the difference between our two institutions is that we act as a parliament should act. a parliament should have a budget that reflects its political priorities. we do not spend money for the sake of spending money. we look at political priorities and then decide what should be allocated to them. what the council wants to do is just keep expenditure to a bare minimum, no matter what the consequences or what it costs. we try to discuss issues like school milk. we made our point. nothing happened. we spoke about the problems with the structural funds. nothing happened. on the internal policies, the medicines’ agency and orphan medicines were one of the issues mentioned. at the sab last year we had an agreement with the council to increase the funding for orphan medicines and what do you do this year? you take 1.9 million off it. it just does not make sense. when we talk about trying to take cyprus and malta out of category 4 and put them where they should belong, you are not interested. and then when we talk about the compensation for not having a morocco fisheries agreement, here is where we get into really serious discussion, because again nothing happened. we were trying to make the point that if you want to create some monies in category 2, you need our agreement, unless you want to take it from existing structural funds. let us be clear about the money that is in category 4 for the morocco fisheries agreement. it is in reserve. the only things we did agree at that conciliation were two bland statements, one on agriculture, one on category 5, but parliament made a unilateral statement concerning the fisheries. i am going to remind you about one part, because when you spoke about looking at the letter of amendment and deciding what to do, in accordance with annex iv of the iia only the amounts entered in the budget for agreements, which have already been concluded by the community, can be considered compulsory expenditure. consequently, amounts entered in reserve – and that whacking big sum of eur 125 million is in reserve – for agreements which have not been concluded, are considered to be non-compulsory. the council might want to argue about that, but we do not see any argument. we will have the final say on what happens and rest assured it will not be a trade-off as to whether we keep that in or take it out to create the same amount of money in category 2. that is something that we need to be talking about. we need to be serious about this budget, to look at expenditure, especially in category 5. what are we going to do about administrative expenditure, especially in relation to enlargement? the statement about getting the secretaries-general to look at how the institutions can work together is all very well but there is a much greater issue. we actually suggested that the budgetary authority should have a value for money exercise looking at every european union institution. you did not even respond to that. i just hope between now and our first reading, and indeed between now and your second reading, we can have some serious discussions and serious conciliation and at the end of it some serious agreements to get a budget that we can all be satisfied with. the one thing we will not stand accused of – i am not saying that you said this but many of your colleagues in the council seem to think this – is that we just want to increase expenditure to the maximum so that we can finance the projects that we see as our favourites, while you want to be extremely prudent. we are extremely prudent. we are sensible in the way we handle things, but we want to do it as a team. we want to act as a budgetary authority, not going back to the old days where you voted on compulsory expenditure, we voted on non-compulsory and sometime in december we ended up with a budget. let us hope that this year we can improve from what i consider to be not a good start to a far better understanding between our two institutions. if this belgian presidency is anything like the last belgian presidency when i did the 1994 budget, i will be extremely happy.
mr president, as a supplementary, is the presidency concerned about the fact that there are so many power stations, particularly around the north sea and in the north of europe, where, when water is sucked in to cool the power station, vast numbers, literally billions, of tiny floating creatures that would turn into fish are destroyed. would the president-in-office undertake to investigate this and try to conserve the stocks of fish, many of which are destroyed in their infancy?
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the president-in-office on getting through so many answers in this question time. you may have beaten the record. i do not know what the record is, but you have been very good. secondly, i note your statement that this procedure will start on time on 3 december. everyone in parliament and the public is delighted to hear that and thank you for your very full reply. can i just ask: is the next step to open up council meetings to the public when you are legislating so we can see what you are doing? then we would have real democracy in the council. will you do that next?
mr president, i would like to focus my remarks this evening on mrs cederschiöld’s report. that is why i am here, having shadowed it in the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. i would like to commend mrs cederschiöld on the way that she has incorporated so many of the opinions of different committees into a very comprehensive report and also to congratulate the commission on this initiative. i feel this is a very worthwhile and challenging document. one of the problems with the report is that it contains a huge amount of material and potential actions and priorities will therefore have to be set. so this evening i should just like to address what i believe is a crucial problem that needs to be looked at in the short term: the whole question of how we encourage the development of electronic commerce to use these tools, to address the sort of business issues that some colleagues are already trying to frustrate, in my view, by moving prematurely to the sort of rigid opt-in arrangement that they are talking about. the e-commerce market is at a very early stage and is still underdeveloped. we do not want to choke it off by some of the things that we are talking about. but we do need to address the security issues. a very important report produced by the british business association, the cbi, last week clearly showed that both businesses and consumers are discouraged from moving into the electronic commerce market place because of concerns about security. businesses, particularly small and medium-sized businesses, are worried about the vulnerability of their enterprises to fraud and fraudulent transactions. i suggest to you that one of the things that we must work on is to ensure that small and medium sized enterprises get the benefits of this revolution. consumers are worried about getting involved in transactions because they are worried about the security of their payments. those are the critical issues we have to tackle. we have to combine that with a regime that allows smes to use e-commerce in a targeted and effective way. so i will combine my remarks on both reports by saying that i believe we are taking the right course with mrs cederschiöld and the right course with mr cappato.
rapporteur. – mr president, of all the issues debated this week there is none that can have a greater impact on the economic wealth of europe than the reform of competition policy. fair and open competition is the bedrock on which the single european market is built and on which the growth of european economies depends. that is why we must maintain our determination to root out monopolists and those who engage in shady anti-competitive price fixing or market sharing deals. these actions not only undermine the interests of commercial competitors, they rip off consumers and undermine the dynamic competitive economy on which our future economic interests rely. but we must also recognise that commissioner monti’s weapons for tackling such abuses are sadly out of date. the commission’s white paper on competition policy reform highlighted the difficulties. the 40 year old procedure under regulation 17 had become a bureaucratic paper-pushing exercise. the commission wants radical change, devolving the application of eu competition law to national authorities in order to refocus its efforts in rooting out cartels and the abuse of market power. parliament agreed with these objectives. but we strongly spelt out our concern on important issues like the need for legal certainty. we also pointed to the possible danger of the reform leading to inconsistent application or even the renationalisation of competition policy, thereby destroying the single market. these were real concerns voiced by many members of the house as well as significant sectors of the business community throughout europe. i recognised and shared those worries and some colleagues and representatives of european business still share them today. nevertheless i believe that commissioner monti has genuinely taken account of our concerns and the commission’s proposal reflects this. above all i want to draw attention to article 3 of the regulation, which unambiguously states that in cases affecting trade between member states it is european competition law that takes precedence. this is a core requirement of the single market and strongly supported by all sides in our committee debates. for us, the preservation of article 3 is an essential part of this reform. we recognise that there may well be some member states that will try to dilute its impact. we consider that article 3 is such a central element of the reform that we will wish to be consulted again if the council obliges the commission to make any significant change to this article. we have proposed a number of amendments in order to improve the operation of this radical reform. we found, for instance, little support outside the bundeskartellamt for the new registration scheme under article 4, which we consider to be time-wasting and valueless. we want it scrapped. we have proposed a range of amendments to improve legal certainty for business, including the widening of article 10 – changes which have received widespread business support. we have urged proper safeguards on commission powers in relation to the application of structural remedies. we have suggested that penalties imposed under eu law by national authorities should be those provided for in eu law. we have also proposed changes in the transitional arrangements and in undertaking a timely review. we have also wrestled with the issue of the appropriate treatment of communications from in-house legal advisers. i am deeply indebted to my colleague, mr rovsing, for the attention that he has given to this issue. there are different rules in operation in different parts of the european union. we have tried to ensure that the professional status of in-house lawyers is acknowledged, whilst not impeding the commission in the thorough investigation of possible infringements. in the committee vote i indicated that this situation could possibly be resolved by a commission declaration clarifying the treatment of such evidence in the application of commission penalties. mr rovsing and i now understand that commissioner monti may have it in mind to make some such declaration, in which event our group will no longer consider it appropriate to retain amendment no 10. this debate has also highlighted other important but wider issues of competition policy reform. we welcome the dynamism which commissioner monti has brought to his brief. “supermario”, as he has been labelled in the media, has taken the lead and not only in pressing for radical reform in europe. he has been at the centre of moves towards the worldwide coordination of competition policy and enforcement. we are sure that in an increasingly global economy such radical reform will be necessary. but we also believe in checks and balances and we want the commission’s actions to be fully reviewable by the court of justice. our committee thanks commissioner monti for his commitment to real and meaningful dialogue. but we reiterate our objective of parliament moving towards full codecision in respect of these matters. the interest of my parliamentary colleagues in competition policy issues is not just some academic exercise for commercial lawyers. in an increasingly global world we recognise that effective competition is the essential motor for the growth of european economies and the welfare of the people we have been sent here to represent depends on fair and open competition in order to drive that growth forward.
mr president, yesterday i was in this house addressing the issue of the european aviation safety agency when i noted that the means by which it was being achieved was through the gradual integration of the national systems. naturally, as you would expect from me as a leader of a party that puts national sovereignty above the integrationalist tendencies of the eu, i strongly object to this process of gradual integration. today, under the different heading of reform of competition policy i find that i am confronted with exactly the same thing – yet another attempt by the commission to achieve the gradual integration of national systems. but what makes this attempt particularly sinister is that it is being sold under the beguiling and wholly misleading claim that the reform is – i quote from the session’s news briefing – “to free hard-pressed commission staff in the competition policy department from routine matters to enable them to concentrate on major cases of non-competitive behaviour”. although giving commission officials an easier life might be one effect of this proposal, the way this is being done is to give national competition authorities limited powers to enforce the competition rules hitherto the monopoly of the commission. but these authorities are neither independent, as it is claimed, nor free to act. they are being granted licenses to act for the commission in accordance with community rules, under the supervision of the commission and responsible to it. the commission wants the competition authorities to form a network at the centre of which is the commission. in other words, the commission wants civil servants in the different member states, paid salaries by the member states, in government buildings paid for by the member states, using facilities provided by and paid for by member state governments, to work not for the member states which finance them, but for the commission implementing community law. amazingly – and it is a reflection of how superficial is the view and understanding of so many commentators – this is seen and presented as subsidiarity and decentralisation. it is anything but decentralisation. it is the opposite, absorbing the civil servants of many countries into one vast centralised nexus. that is what the network is: everyone working for the one central authority – the commission. as for subsidiarity, this is not a matter of member states being able to make their own decisions and run their own affairs at local level. this is the commission running member states’ affairs, using the resources and the facilities of those member states as if they were its own. that state of affairs, it seems, also applies to the courts which will hear the cases in member states. although they may nominally be the courts of the member states and their running costs are paid for by the member states, they are – as the draftsman so clearly reminded us – courts of community law underlying the whole community judicial system. in other words, not only are member states’ civil servants being absorbed into the maw of the community, but the courts are too. all this is being done in the name of efficiency. it should be remembered that the most efficient form of government is the centralised dictatorship. the least efficient is the democracy. in important ways, therefore, efficiency is the enemy of democracy. i fear that in the supposed interests of efficiency we are surrendering something much more valuable – the very democracy at the heart of all our nations – to the centralised technocracy which is the commission. this is not so much integration as assimilation. it will all end in tears.
mr president, firstly i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for the report which has been a difficult one in terms of reaching a balance between the interests of what is clearly the very important – and very immediate – issue of fire safety and the more difficult, but more long-term problem of future harm to public health and the environment. the substances which are the subject of this report have clear and demonstrated beneficial properties as flame retardants in materials and products such as foam-filled furniture. however, they also have important negative properties. they are toxic. they are bioaccumulative in animals and in the general environment and they have even been found, as has been said already, in human breast milk. action on these substances in the opinion of many members of this parliament has been long delayed due to the slow progress of the risk assessments undertaken under the existing substance regulations of 1993. the final results and publications of the risk assessments of certain of these substances are still awaited. i hope the commission notes that. the general conclusions are clear. these substances which have a potential for harm to the environment must be strictly controlled. one cannot ignore however their very real and positive benefits in terms of reducing substantially the annual human death toll due to accidental fires. accordingly, i would welcome the report. i give my support to the amendments to that report which enable the continued use of the most stable isomer, that is decabde, until such time as this substance has a complete risk assessment and its real uses and risks are assessed and we have some conclusions on it. i commend the report to the house.
mr president, the safety and quality of blood products have never been so important. every week we hear across the eu story after story about this issue. i believe that every member of the house wants to be reassured with the knowledge that there is a level of safety and quality of blood and blood products throughout the transfusion process in member states. for our citizens it means that in the unfortunate situation where, for instance, you have had an accident on holiday and you require a blood transfusion, you can guarantee the quality and safety being the same, whether it is on a greek island or on a scottish island. as we all know, the main area of difference between members has been on the issue of remunerated and non-remunerated blood products. i believe that the preferred option should be that blood is given voluntarily. as the european blood alliance outline, voluntary and non-remunerated donations of blood and blood components are considered to be a gift from healthy citizens to those in need. but more importantly, the eu charter of fundamental rights prohibits the making of the human body and its parts a source of financial gain. we as a parliament, and within the institutions, have consistently advocated voluntary, non-remunerated donations. evidence shows that the prevalence of viruses and diseases which may be transmitted through blood is higher in those donors who are remunerated than those who donate without receiving payment. there is, however, one issue which i would like to highlight. that is amendment no 43. in scotland and the uk we have a specific issue with cjd. many haemophiliacs and those with immune disorders depend on blood products from the us, the reason being that in scotland and the uk we no longer use plasma from uk donors to make blood products because of cjd and rely instead on imports of plasma from the us. the oral amendment advocated by mrs korhola to amendment no 43 is greatly welcomed. i hope members will support it tomorrow. in conclusion, the safety, quality and standard of blood and blood products is an important issue which we have to get right. perhaps in the second reading the rapporteur could organise outside this chamber an opportunity for members to donate blood. after all, as members, we should lead by example. giving blood is a positive act of citizenship.
mr president, a friend of mine lives with aids and so does his wife because he received contaminated blood in a transfusion and then unknowingly affected his wife. i know the risks and dangers and the importance of quality and safety in our blood supplies. that is why i welcome this proposal, particularly the work of my colleague mr nisticò. but it would be a tragedy if it was spoiled by one amendment, an amendment which exacerbated the known shortages of rare blood groups and plasma. it would be a tragedy in a very real sense because the who points out that there are 80 primary immune deficiency conditions in our world and it is estimated that some 50 000 to 90 000 people in our europe suffer from those conditions. most are treatable, most people can lead fairly full lives but only if, every three weeks of their life for as long as they live, they have an infusion of immunoglobin which comes from human plasma and that keeps them alive. europe uses 7 million litres per annum, and 4 million litres come from compensated donors. of course we would all prefer all donations to be voluntary. in the united kingdom they are all voluntary but in the united kingdom, as we have heard, there is no plasma coming from uk donors for blood products because of the theoretical risk of variant cjd being transmitted by blood. nor can we take any from other countries in europe. it does not matter about blood banks or plasma banks in europe – we cannot take them from countries in the eu where there has been bse or new variant cjd so we have to look elsewhere, and we and others rely largely on the united states’ supplies. the united kingdom department of health has said there are no acceptable alternative sources. of course, such imports include remunerated donations and there is no evidence at all that they are any less safe than unremunerated ones. amendment no 43 would ban the import of such literally life-saving plasma and i urge the support of this house for the rapporteur’s compromise amendment.
european ombudsman. – mr president, in 1993 the maastricht treaty established the right to petition the european parliament and the right to complain to the european ombudsman as rights of european citizenship. at the nice summit in december 2000, these rights were enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. the reports and resolutions which the european parliament is debating today concern the present state of these vital constitutional rights of european citizens. i am grateful for the opportunity to speak in this important debate, which goes to the heart of european citizenship. before commenting on some of the reports, i would like to express my thanks to commissioner loyola de palacio for continuing to ensure that the commission respects deadlines for answers to the ombudsman's inquiries and provides answers which are complete and accurate. this good cooperation is vital to ensure that the ombudsman can deal with complaints promptly and effectively and thereby fulfils his mission of enhancing relations between the citizens and the community institutions and bodies. i would also like to pay tribute today to the work of mr jean-claude eeckhout. he will soon be retiring from his post in the secretariat-general of the commission where he deals, amongst other things, with relations between the commission and the european ombudsman. to me, he represents the model public servant. he is devoted not only to the european ideal, but also to the hard practical work of improving administration for the benefit of citizens. (applause)i now turn to the code of good administrative behaviour and congratulate mr roy perry on his excellent report. it is appropriate that mr perry should be the rapporteur, since he first launched the idea of such a code some years ago, in the report of the committee on petitions on its activities in 1996-1997. jean-maurice dehousse, rapporteur for the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, has also played an important role. he has stressed that the code should have a firm legal basis and suggested a practical way to achieve this. i hope that this report will be followed by the rapid adoption of a regulation. the nice charter includes good administration as one of the fundamental rights of citizenship. i cannot understand why anyone should oppose the idea of community law providing citizens with as high a standard of legal protection vis-à-vis the european administration as national laws already provide vis-à-vis the member states' administrations. the report of the committee on constitutional affairs on the statute of the european ombudsman is unusual because the treaty makes the european parliament the legislator and also entrusts to it the power of initiative. the role of the council is limited to giving its approval to the parliament's text by qualified majority, whilst the commission gives an opinion. i would like to thank the rapporteur, teresa almeida garrett, for the principled approach which she has taken to the legislative process. as she has emphasised, the original statute was drafted nearly a decade ago. its provisions concerning the inspection of documents and the hearing of witnesses need to be updated in the light of the greater emphasis on administrative openness and the need to gain the confidence of the public and promote a modern administrative culture at community level. the report of the committee on petitions on the ombudsman's annual report for the year 2000 is also before you. i congratulate the rapporteur mr bösch for his excellent and constructive report, which rightly focuses on the need to serve european citizens effectively. i fully agree with the rapporteur that the ombudsman should deal with complaints as quickly as possible. to this end, we have continued our efforts to eliminate unnecessary delay by insisting that the institutions and bodies respect the deadlines for responding to complaints and by improving our own efficiency. we have made progress towards achieving our internal management targets of acknowledging complaints within one week, deciding on their admissibility within one month and closing inquiries within one year. at the end of august last year, there were 65 cases still open after one year. by august 2001 the comparable figure was 25 cases. of these, one remains open because we have submitted a special report to the european parliament. in five other cases, the statute lays down that the institution concerned has a further three months to produce a detailed opinion. mr bösch's report also refers to the problems which the committee on petitions has faced in obtaining the information needed to deal effectively with citizens' petitions. an example of such problems is the case of the petition concerning the regulation of the lloyd's insurance market. in my view, the most effective way to improve the situation could be through strengthening cooperation between the ombudsman and the committee on petitions, especially in relation to petitions about infringements of community law by member states, where the commission plays a vital role through the so-called article 226 procedure. we would be ready to handle the preparation of such cases in a professional way and thereby facilitate the work of the committee on petitions. for my part, i am ready to enter discussions with the committee and the european parliament's administration to achieve this. in conclusion, mr president, i shall make some brief comments about the commission's recently published white paper on governance. the white paper contains much talk, but few concrete proposals for action to benefit citizens.it could have contained firm commitments to: propose a law on good administrative behaviour, to ensure the rule of law and respect for citizens by the eu administration; reform the way that the commission acts as guardian of the treaty in order to make the procedure open, fair and understandable; advise officials to use their freedom of speech to promote debate and help focus citizens' attention on european issues; reinforce the legal advice service to citizens in the commission representations, thereby promoting the correct application of community law. but it does not. i am sorry to say that the commission seems to have forgotten european citizenship. this neglect is illustrated in a brochure which the commission has recently published called who's who in the european union. the brochure mentions the charter on fundamental rights and the fact that the european parliament exercises democratic control over the commission's activities. however, it contains no reference to citizenship or to the right to petition the european parliament or to complain to the ombudsman, which the nice charter includes as fundamental rights of european citizenship. i would like to call the present commission back to the road of making european citizenship a living reality. it is the only way to obtain the confidence of the citizens, which today seems more lost than ever before. citizenship may be less fashionable than the more technocratic sounding ‘governance’, but there are no technical solutions to the deep gulf between the rulers and ruled in europe. this gulf was revealed not just by the irish referendum but by every other referendum on europe in the last decade and also by the events in gothenburg. it can be bridged only slowly, by the development of european citizenship in an honest, fair and just way. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, this week we have been debating very many important issues: the enlargement of the union, the future governance of the union and anti-terrorism measures amongst others. i do not want anybody to think that the issues addressed in the joint debate this morning are not themselves of the utmost importance. the european union is a great ideal. the institutions are undoubtedly worthy and officials of the institutions seek to discharge their functions responsibly. as the ombudsman himself said this morning, unfortunately the institutions of europe do not enjoy the highest reputation amongst our citizens. it is critical, therefore, that every step is taken to ensure the quality of the administration of european affairs by the eu institutions. in parliament we have the petitions committee and the officer of the ombudsman to oversee allegations of maladministration. i would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the work of herbert bösch in his report on the ombudsman, my colleague on the later report, felipe camisón on the work of the petitions committee and mrs almeida garrett on her work on the statute of the ombudsman. we need a new framework agreement so that the member states also pay more serious attention to their obligations under the eu treaties. we should also place on record our appreciation to the ombudsman and to his staff for the calm and efficient way in which they discharge their functions. it cannot be easy to be the complaints department of europe. it requires special skills and mr söderman has shown us that he has those in abundance. to turn to my own report proposing a code of good administrative behaviour, this has been a long time in the gestation and in the last parliament there were reports from myself and from mrs de esteban proposing a code of good administrative behaviour. i am grateful to rapporteurs from the citizens' rights committee and the legal affairs committee, in particular mr dehousse, who have pointed to a procedural route that could, and will i hope, enable us to get this code. there are two central principles if the code is to be fully effective. one, it must be based in law. good administration is a right, not a privilege and the code must be uniform for all the institutions. citizens need to know where they stand and precisely what their rights are in dealing with the institutions. the right to good administration is enshrined in the european charter of fundamental rights. but without this code, the charter would just be a form of words. this code is to put flesh on the charter of fundamental rights. it is a concept that is contained within similar laws in most of the member states. spain, is just one example. its 1992 administrative law requires that citizens be treated with respect and cooperation by the authorities. germany and its unfair practice law dating from 1909 enforces good practice upon its officials. the european union must now follow suit with its own code of good administrative behaviour. i appreciate that the commission in particular, but also the other institutions, have adopted and are applying their own voluntary codes. they are good as far as they go, but they do not go far enough, and they have to be obligatory rather than voluntary. there are, however, some differences between the proposed code as now drafted by the ombudsman, which i hope that this house will support, and the codes currently in use. i would refer just to one of them and that is the requirement that when an error has been made the official concerned has to apologise to the citizen who has suffered as a result. a readiness to apologise never comes amiss, so i particularly support that particular clause in the draft. in conclusion, british members like me are often against written constitutions. they are alien to our tradition. they seem to us very often to concentrate on giving power to those in authority and ignoring the rights of the citizen. but from the magna carta 1215 to our citizens' charter of the 1990s, we in britain have welcomed codes that set out citizens' rights. i hope that fellow europeans will see this as a contribution to the good governance of europe that even british members can support.
mr president, these three reports generally give a strong endorsement of the function of the office of ombudsman and also of its current incumbent and my group warmly congratulates mr söderman on his work. it is clear that the ombudsman, reinforced by the charter, plays an increasingly meaningful and forceful role in protecting the citizen from abuses of executive authority. we have tabled one amendment to article 3 of the statute, which would bring members of the commission and members of parliament as well as members of the agencies of the union, such as europol, beneath the purview of the ombudsman. the commission opposes this reform on the grounds that it implies political interference, but we believe that the ombudsman is perfectly capable of distinguishing between maladministration and defective politics. the right to inquire into the conduct of those supremely responsible for administration is an essential part of good governance and a necessary complement to, not a substitute for, the work of this parliament in exercising democratic accountability in relation to the college. in most, if not all, member states national ministers are subject to inquiries by the national ombudsman and it would be a pity if european standards of good administration fell below the norms now established in our member states. in fact, in our view, they should be superior.
mr president, i welcome all these reports but will concentrate this morning on the bösch report, highlighting the very important work carried out by the ombudsman which goes some way to respecting the idea of transparency and open governance. this will hopefully show citizens that europe's institutions do endeavour to act in the interests of its people and that cases of maladministration will always be punished. of course the ombudsman's powers are limited, but i am happy that the report demonstrates that the ombudsman does his utmost in most cases in the name of fair play. the bulk of the ombudsman's report consists of a thorough account of the complaints made to him about maladministration by the european institutions, the investigations his office has carried out and the action taken, including, of course, the results. however many complaints addressed to the ombudsman still concern actions by national authorities, for which the european ombudsman is not competent, and many complaints prove not to merit any action. the number of cases where the ombudsman's intervention has proved successful for the complainant shows that the ombudsman has developed efficient ways of ensuring that the european institutions comply with his recommendations. the ombudsman's special reports, based on his right to own-initiative inquiry, make an important contribution to the interpretation and development of community law. i particularly welcome the fact that, in connection with the drafting of the charter of fundamental rights, the ombudsman has strongly urged that the charter recognise the citizen's right to an open, accountable and service-minded administration. community bodies have a duty to shape community policies and law in a way which is beneficial and comprehensible to citizens.
mr president, i too welcome these reports and, with particular reference to mrs almeida garrett's report, i welcome the proposals to extend the ombudsman's right of access to all documents. i particularly welcome the proposed change relating to the status of documents emanating from member states. in the committee on petitions and elsewhere, we are running into difficulties on this question: to whom does information belong? it is crucial that the ombudsman should have the widest possible access and i agree with comments made by colleagues concerning the need for greater openness. i only regret that we did not pursue this issue more fully in the parliament's own debate on access to sensitive documents. mr perry's report is also important, especially in its definition of an institution and the emphasis on the willingness to be helpful and to communicate. other civil services could well learn from this and i also welcome the extension of non-discrimination in his proposed amendment no 11 to article 5.
mr president, i share some of mrs thyssens' reservations about what we are being asked to do here and the degree of expertise with which we do it. mr lannoye knows he has my respect, but i have to say with some regret that i fear we are repeating some of the debating errors of the chocolate directive and the determination to rechristen some products. mr lannoye's amendments have caused confusion in the name of purity when we come to the issue of honey. i agree with him about fruit juice and i certainly salute his motives. but there are a number of member states which use filtered honey extensively to remove insect debris, grains of sand and pollen fragments. i have heard no convincing argument that this damage of the product adds unwanted material and indeed there are other amendments before us today which call for the removal of organic and inorganic material from some honeys. the council had arrived at a sensible position on this and i have seen no evidence – and i have checked back with our own food standards agency – that there are any legitimate concerns about content. there are other ways of tracing the origins of honey, as well as the pollen content to which the rapporteur has referred. finally i would like to look at what a number of member states call ‘baker's honey’, which is to be redefined, if the rapporteur has his way, as ‘industrial honey’. there is no such thing. i would like to think this was an unwitting translation error but this derogatory phraseology is probably not accidental. by just putting a noun with an adjective you cannot always make sense. if i were to describe mr lannoye, whom i hold in esteem as an ‘industrial belgian’, it would be a meaningless phrase. we should use a real description understood throughout the community, not an invented one. this is not a product only fit to grease the wheels of industry. it is a product that people know and have confidence in and it is safe for consumers.
mr president, mr nisticò said there was an oral amendment to amendment no 43, which is one of the ones you are trying to take en bloc.
mr president, the oral amendment i proposed to amendment no 43 by mr lund is to replace his second paragraph. this is one that i have reached a compromise on with mrs korhola. it states the following: "in the case of shortage of certain plasma products, and solely with regards to the importation into the eu from countries outside of the eu, the member states may permit exemptions to the directive provided the quality and safety requirements laid down are met." this is absolutely essential to safeguard the interests of european haemophiliacs who rely, occasionally, on imported factor viii plasma products which may contain some donated and some sold blood from the united states. so this is absolutely essential, if we are not to put in jeopardy the lives of british and other haemophiliacs. it has the support of myself and mrs korhola. i understand mr lund will support it as well.
mr president, should i be unable to speak about the content, i would only say that the previous remark from the ppe side of the house is complete baloney.
in writing. - i voted for the opt-out system. the opposite system - opt-in - would be totally ineffective in europe. if the eu legislates to try to restrict the sending of emails, whether for commercial, fundraising or political reasons, recipients of such emails within the eu will still be able to receive them, unlike those from third countries. speaking of which, the idea of starting a small business on a sunny island in the caribbean is tempting enough. from there, i would send tons of emails all over the eu on behalf of european companies, all for a very hefty fee. this type of case is not possible in the eu. if the eu, with good intentions, chooses the opt-in system, this could have two negative consequences: it would put european companies at a disadvantage compared to their global rivals and it could lead to a "leakage" of jobs out of the eu. the road to hell, as they say, is paved with good intentions. the phenomenon of spamming must be controlled, but the only way to do so is through legislation and global cooperation.
in writing. - after more than five years, we have finally voted today on the proposal for a council directive on fruit jams, jellies and marmalades and cream of nuts intended for human consumption. i am glad that parliament has not touched on the derogation proposed by the council concerning cookies. the directive will fortunately not affect the favourite biscuits of the british public, such as jammy dodgers. the jammy dodger is a real institution in the uk; many were afraid that the directive would ban them. it is reassuring to see that not all british traditions and institutions are threatened by brussels.
mr president, parliament today will vote on its fifth resolution on zimbabwe in the last 18 months. if the council and the commission did not feel moved to act before, then it is certainly time to act now, before the mugabe regime destroys all hope for what is potentially one of the most prosperous countries in africa. the breakdown in the rule of law, the terrible human rights abuses inflicted on all sections of the population in zimbabwe and the catastrophic economic situation have all been well documented and have intensified. the political opposition to mugabe's regime has been in the frontline of attacks from zanu-pf militants. the opposition press has been bombed and critical journalists have been routinely attacked. opposition politicians in the movement for democratic change and their supporters have been the particular targets of harassment, violent intimidation, arbitrary imprisonment and murder. in the last few weeks, many mps and party officials have narrowly escaped death after violent attacks. this is not some family squabble between britain and zimbabwe. mugabe's regime is a destabilising factor in central africa and his human rights record is of international concern. the economic collapse in zimbabwe is pulling down neighbouring countries. in the last two days, senior black opposition activists visiting this parliament have insisted that the crisis is nothing to do with land, but about mugabe's desire to hold on to power. he faces defeat in the presidential election next year, but is trying to head this off with a savage campaign of brutal intimidation against his political opponents. we must recognise that democratic norms, protection under the law and basic human rights have been abandoned in zimbabwe for all elements of the population. it takes enormous courage to stand up for democracy, liberty and freedom of speech in such circumstances. morgan tsvangirai, as the leader of the opposition mdc since 1999, personifies this courageous stance and the struggle for genuine freedom in zimbabwe and deserves international recognition for his stance. i had rather hoped that we would have senior council representatives here this afternoon. this resolution is aimed at the council in particular because there are a number of high-level meetings taking place in the next few weeks. can i have an assurance that today the secretariat will ensure that our resolution is passed to the presidency, so that it can brought up at the informal meeting of ministers at genval near brussels this weekend and formally put on the agenda of the general affairs council on 8 october? (applause)
mr president, i must say to the last speaker that, as somebody british, i can confirm that my ancestors had absolutely nothing to do with the oppression or repression of the people of zimbabwe. i would like to make it clear that i and my family are in no way guilty of colluding with anything that took place in colonial days. it is very important for us to recognise that this resolution is being debated here today at a very important time. it is an opportunity for president mugabe to make the decision once and for all to step back from the brink, as mr van orden has clearly said. in addition to the negotiations, which are taking place as we speak in abuja between foreign ministers of the commonwealth, there are a number of european union initiatives including the intended visit to the southern african countries by the belgian foreign minister, representing the presidency and mr solana, the high representative. there are a number of other things going on as well. very importantly, in about three weeks, the preparatory team will be going out to prepare for the european union's involvement – hopefully – in the march presidential elections. that makes it extremely important. but if it turns out that all those initiatives fail and he still turns his back on the willingness of the international community to have dialogue with him, then it will be time to take stock of what is happening. i would say to mrs maes in particular that one of the reasons the council and the commission have not wanted to take urgent action, as some in this parliament would perhaps have wanted, is the danger that what mugabe wants is an excuse to call a state of emergency in zimbabwe so he can cancel the election, stop the democratic process and stifle the official opposition as well as any opposition from the press and media. we need to understand the potential impact of anything that the european union, or indeed the commonwealth, does in order to tackle what is happening in zimbabwe. the defining moment will be on 8 october when the next general affairs council is due to take place. if no progress has been made by this time, if the dialogue has failed, if we say this is a useless procedure, then at this point it is essential that we adopt so-called smart sanctions. we should restrict visas to all mugabe's associates and his government and identify those individuals with foreign bank accounts and freeze their assets. those are smart sanctions that will not hurt the poor people of zimbabwe but would certainly hurt those zimbabweans who very much like coming to london to shop in harrods or visit their children who are in british public schools. those are the kind of important things that the european union can do. similarly we will have to look at the possibility of the suspension of development aid because that is how the cotonou agreement would suggest that we should proceed. at that time, we would have to express parliament's view, as we say now, that insufficient progress has been made on land seizures, on political violence, on all of these things that others have raised. finally, i support the words of morgan tsvangirai, the leader of the opposition party, who this morning on the bbc was very tough on mugabe and i will quote what he said and finish with this: 'president mugabe has clearly violated all the tenets of the commonwealth and all other international organisations and should now be isolated from the international community.' we should heed the words of the leader of the opposition in zimbabwe.
mr president, there are 4 500 farmers of british, dutch, german and greek origin who own 8.3 million hectares of land in zimbabwe. nine white farmers and 360 black farm workers have been killed in the chaos over the last few months. thousands of black farmers have lost their jobs and their homes and the farms are unworkable. zimbabwe depends on the success of agriculture and the contribution of these farmers is vital to sustain its economy. there is money available from the united kingdom government under the lancaster house agreement and there is a willingness among the white farmers to give up 80% of their land to settle the black families. mugabe must accept such a solution. in 1970, tanzania nationalised sisal farms, businesses and real estate, killing its private sector. the same happened in uganda in 1972, when the asians were expelled, and those two countries' economies have been bankrupt ever since. i sympathise with the farmers and farm workers of zimbabwe, as my family was a victim of similar confiscation and nationalisation. my family has lived in tanzania for 166 years, much longer than many white farmers in zimbabwe. we bought land from deutsch-ostafrika in 1876 and i still have a title deed. we lost land and property through nationalisation without compensation and i know what that means. i share the grief of the silent black majority in zimbabwe, who continue to live in poverty. the poorest in zimbabwe do not want to shoot, kill, loot and burn crops. they are hungry and unemployed. they need food, education, health, employment and shelter. it was the vision and quality like nelson mandela that at last set an example for africa that reconciliation, cooperation, democracy and respect for all people, irrespective of their colour, is the only way to govern a developing country the only way to help the poorest to be free of poverty and disease. president mugabe must follow mr mandela and accept reconciliation and democracy, allow the white farmers to thrive and continue farming and accept that zimbabwe belongs to the people of zimbabwe and nobody has the right to deprive them of a decent life based on peace and democracy.
mr president, i was part of the observer mission that went to zimbabwe, as was mr gahler and others here. i want to explode the myth that this is about land and land ownership: this is about politics. this is about the fact that mugabe knows that if they had the same votes that were cast last year in the general election, he would lose a presidential election. he is driving the farmers and their farm workers off the land, out of the constituencies, so that they cannot register to vote. it is plainly about politics. it is not about colonial powers. it is about politics. those farms are well run, they provide churches, schools and hospital treatment in those areas. the communities come together. 70% of zimbabwe is about agriculture and the economy is being destroyed. we need smart sanctions to be taken on president mugabe. he is not listening to placations. we have got to act and we have got to act now. (applause)
mr president, the british countryside is at the moment in total crisis. i have a document here in front of me stating that the british government admits that it was unable to meet the required deadlines for the slaughter of infected animals. it goes on to say that the control of the disease, as my colleague there has said, has failed because we are now having new outbreaks in the centre of britain, in the centre of the region where we thought we were rid of it. we have failed to control it and we have also failed to provide the necessary border controls. last sunday i drove from my farm in north yorkshire to strasbourg. i was never questioned about whether i was carrying any meat and there were no border controls at all to check my vehicle. there were no disinfection points. there was a simple carpet in the middle of the road and that was all. i say to mr lamy, who is the really important man here today, that we have a situation where england is the dustbin of europe. we are importing food from these countries. we must look at that. finally, will he consider the possibility of a public inquiry into the way this matter has been handled?
mr president, i very much regret that this is the second time in six months that we are having to debate foot-and-mouth disease in this house. the reason for our debate is, as the joint resolution says, that the measures taken by the uk government to control this disease have failed, that new outbreaks are appearing and that there is a very real risk of the disease spreading again to mainland europe. we need to ask ourselves why the uk government has failed and why in particular it consistently rejects the idea of ring vaccination in the face of mounting calls from those in rural communities who want to adopt it. it is ever more clear that it is not small farmers' livelihoods, it is not even the tourist industry and the wider rural economy that the uk has as its priority, but simply our meat exports and the desire to regain fmd-free export status again as soon as possible. yet even this dismal economic justification for culling on such a scale does not stand up. according to the national farmers' union the uk earns just gbp 630 million a year from meat and dairy exports. compare that with the estimated cost to the wider rural community of gbp 9 billion as a result of the foot-and-mouth epidemic. i welcome the call in this resolution for a full cost-benefit analysis between the various disease control approaches so that we can compare the losses that have been suffered under the culling approach to those that would have been incurred under a vaccination strategy. i feel sure that the results will demonstrate that the uk government’s approach is not only inhumane, it is also uneconomical. we are urging the commission to revise the eu strategy on defending by all means fmd status and to recognise that the culling and destruction of healthy animals is both inhumane and ineffective.
mr president, i represent the region in the north-east of england which was the scene of the original outbreak and has just recently been affected by further outbreaks. i regret very much that we have been unable to agree a compromise text on this occasion. the reason is simple. recital a accuses the uk government of failure to control the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease. in truth, it is not an attack on the uk government but on all those who have battled very heroically against the disease since the end of february – the farmers themselves, the vets, the scientists, the civil servants, the police, the military, many different rural agencies which have all been involved. in particular, the farmers in the allendale valley, the scene of the recent hotspot, believed that they had taken all the necessary measures to avoid the disease. failure to control implies that the outbreak should have already ended. but the mover of the resolution did not explain when and by what means that might have been achieved. no-one ever promised, or even surmised, that the outbreak would be over at this stage. at its peak there were 40 to 50 cases a day. despite the recent outbreak in allendale, the average is now two or three cases per day. if this does not indicate a degree of control then we really have a very serious problem in front of us, something that none of us ever imagined. it is important also to recall that from the very start the uk government has given full information to the other member states and has followed the advice of the standing veterinary committee. in that respect, we can point to a considerable success for the mechanisms that we have operating within the european union. a word on vaccination. i would suggest to mr van dam, the original speaker on this resolution, that perhaps he ought to apply for the job of chief scientist in the united kingdom. he certainly seems to bring to the debate on vaccination an authority and conviction which far exceeds that of the current holder of the office, professor david king, who only this morning in a radio broadcast said we could not be certain that vaccination would have done any good. in the netherlands the animals were also slaughtered and there is quite a problem here in the suggestion that vaccination actually saves the animal's life. that does not necessarily follow – but i do not know when the job becomes vacant!
mr president, no one doubts the seriousness of the foot-and-mouth epidemic in the uk. i believe it has been the worst epidemic of this disease that the world has seen. nobody can doubt the drastic measures that have had to be used to curtail it. the two current hotspots show that this outbreak will be with us for many months. we cannot, on the one hand, say that the containment is too drastic because of the slaughter policy and, on the other hand, that it is too slack because it has let the disease take hold. we did not anticipate effectively the extraordinary scale of animal movements, particularly of sheep, in february 2000 and later. the first of the three inquiries that have now been launched in the uk will need to look at that and perhaps also at the role of one form of cap subsidy in encouraging some of these forms of animal movement. we provided effective information for our dutch, french and irish neighbours and for them it worked. we should study how their containment worked and why. vaccination, in my opinion, has to be one of the options that the inquiry can recommend if they so find. finally a word to mr sturdy, who called for a european public inquiry. when we had one into bse, he was not so enthusiastic. but bse was a new disease. there was a real element of concealment in some of the factors that led to that disease and particularly in the european factor and the fact that we were still exporting infected meal to continental europe for years after we banned it for ourselves. that was a genuine european inquiry. the epidemiology of this outbreak is not in doubt. i believe that our friends should accept that the british have to get their own house in order and, if that means a public dimension to the inquiries, that case can be made in the uk. it is not like what happened with bse: we have done our duty by our neighbours. we hope that they will now have the confidence in us to let us help ourselves and see all remedies properly examined so that this dreadful disease can be exterminated.
mr president, mauritania is a vast country and almost 90% of its land is desert. water is a scarce resource and its 2.2 million people are poor and live in rural areas. it depends on its exports of iron ore and fishing – just two things. i was invited in may of this year to lead a small delegation of meps and visit mauritania, which i did. i spent a week with parliamentarians, all the ministers, president taya, civil society and ngos. we travelled up and down the country – a week is a long time to be in mauritania. mrs sudre and mrs langenhagen came with me. i was impressed by what president taya has done over the years in a country as poor as this. i am astonished – and i want to embarrass him and his government, which i shall do at the acp conference when their delegates come – that there is now this sad case of locking up the opposition. there is no reason for it, there is no need. he is quite strong, he is quite popular. he has done well. he can do well without locking up his opposition. as far as slavery is concerned, it is actually banned in islam and mauritania is a muslim country. there are moors, there are blacks and various mixtures of these two. i saw their lifestyle. i did not see any slaves, though that is not to say they are not there. what i shall certainly do is embarrass the government of mauritania at the acp conference to make sure this practice does not continue and the opposition is allowed to operate freely so that there is accountability of the ministers. it is better for the president of the country and the people of the country.
mr president, in august the norwegian freighter tampa rescued 433 afghans and four indonesian crew members from a fishing vessel that had set sail from an indonesian port. the captain was given permission to proceed to the indonesian port of merak, after which he was put under duress by the passengers with threatened suicides and forced to sail towards australian waters. it is believed that many of these passengers set out from a refugee camp in pakistan, paying about gbp 4 500 each to be taken illegally to australia. apparently the going rate for germany is gbp 7 000 and britain, the destiny of choice, is gbp 10 000. the australian government was perfectly entitled to exercise its sovereign right under the law of the sea to secure its borders by refusing the ship access to australian waters. nor do its obligations under the 1951 geneva convention apply until an asylum seeker is actually present on its territory. the convention itself, introduced before the age of cheap mass jet travel, was a response to the horrors of nazism and designed to protect the principle of asylum. however, as we are all aware, it is increasingly abused by economic migrants who pass through several safe but poor countries in order to reach rich countries to settle in, where it can lead to people-trafficking, prostitution and a black economy in jobs. in britain over 100 000 people claimed asylum last year and the great majority of these claims were unfounded. but it remains profitable for criminal people-traffickers to ply their trade because appeals can be strung out for years and, even when unsuccessful, almost no-one is deported back to their country of origin. australia's problem is also our problem. we need urgently to face up to the need to secure our borders and remove those who enter illegally. there is widespread concern. the eu should urgently develop new policies in this area. we also need to exert severe pressure on those countries which refuse to take back their own nationals. in fact we need to totally renegotiate the 1951 geneva convention and think again. i salute prime minister howard of australia's robust and courageous stance over this issue.
mr president, may i begin by saying that i cannot agree with anyone who suggests that the claims of most of the people who have been processed in the system in the united kingdom are found to be fraudulent. i would like to distance myself from statements like that. it misrepresents the position of people in britain who do not understand the kind of attitude that we heard here earlier this afternoon. we are glad that after eight days of sitting under tarpaulins in the hot sun and inside containers, the afghan refugees are now at least in reasonable conditions on board the ship on a long voyage to port moresby in papua new guinea. it has been an extremely tragic incident and terrible to watch and to think of their suffering. but more than anything it teaches us that the 50-year old asylum-seeking system instigated by the united nations is not working any more. it is creaking under the strain of the mass movement of 21 million migrants a year. the desperation of the people on the tampa is clear. to suggest that people take this kind of action lightly is ridiculous. they take terrible risks with their lives and the lives of their children in order to escape persecution or penury. they cross the seas in inflatable boats, they cling to the underside of trains like the eurostar and jumbo jets. the suffering of the refugees on the tampa should at least lead all the governments that we represent here to rethink the way that they implement the 1951 un convention on refugees. finally, i would say that the first thing we have to try and do is to ensure that it is governments, rather than organised criminals, that determine where refugees finally end up.
mr president, i speak on behalf of my colleague mr van orden, who is absent today but who for many years has been directly involved in the work of overcoming the scourge of anti-personnel landmines. most eu member states no longer have anti-personnel landmines in the operational armouries of their armed forces. these weapons have indeed been banned for the past four years. it is only irresponsible armed forces such as those in former yugoslavia and armed groups of non-state actors engaged in civil war and insurgency that continue to use these dreadful weapons. by definition such groups are not party to the ottawa convention to ban landmines. this resolution draws attention to the fact and seeks to find ways in which these groups can be influenced. this requires very careful consideration as we must take great care that we do not imply any sort of recognition of the legitimacy of these groups or of their actions. we do not wish to distract eu resources from the priority task of mine clearance and assistance to mine victims. we wish to bring this matter to the attention of all the states party to the ottawa convention that will gather in managua in nicaragua later this month.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the commission has always attached great importance to mountain farming and has a great interest in it. i therefore thank the committee on agriculture and rural development, and in particular the rapporteur, mr ebner, for taking the initiative in this report on 25 years of application of community rules to mountain farming. the report by mr ebner, which builds on the santini report on a new strategy for mountain farming in 1998 and which is due to be published next year in the context of the international year of mountains, stresses the importance of mountain areas for the european union. the importance of environmental protection, the need to preserve attractive natural areas, the production of quality products and the urgency of preserving cultural heritage are all highlighted. it is also emphasised that the viability of rural areas in mountain areas goes far beyond the agricultural context and depends on a variety of factors. this starting point shows that we are facing the same questions. multi-functionality is also at the heart of the new rural development policy. it aims to promote an agriculture in which all the functions and all the services are recognised, all the functions that farmers offer our society. this is an integral part of the european agricultural model and, in response to some of the concerns expressed in the report, i can assure you that the commission will make every effort to ensure that this aspect is taken into account in the world trade organisation trade negotiations. the report now calls on the commission to create a global strategy for mountain areas and their agriculture in the member states and the candidate countries, with a view to enlargement. the commission's approach differs from that of the report on this point. i would remind you that the new rural development policy was launched only last year. in this new policy we have put subsidiarity at the forefront, thus enabling member states to set their own priorities and to include in their rural development plans or in their planning documents for the structural funds the measures which they consider most appropriate to develop their regions and to deal with the existing disadvantages or difficulties of location. this decentralised approach, which also applies to the sapard programmes, makes it possible to tailor rural development programmes particularly well to mountain areas and also to take account of the differences between mountain areas, for example the pyrenees need to adopt different concepts from the alps. this will promote sustainable development that takes into account both the socioeconomic problems and the environmental challenges facing each of these areas. instead of re-establishing a central approach, the best possible implementation of mountain-area policy should be discussed in detail with all the union institutions and bodies, the member states, the regions, the local authorities, but also with the economic and social partners, the non-governmental organisations and the scientific community. in this context, i would like to point out that on 31 january this year the commission adopted the second report on economic and social cohesion, which raises and invites discussion of the question of setting priorities for the balanced and sustainable development of the territories of the enlarged union and of meeting the increased need for cohesion. this report offers many opportunities for supporting regions whose development is lagging behind. the commission's contribution to the international year of mountains will therefore be primarily aimed at raising awareness of our current funding mechanisms. the commission will organise a seminar in the second half of 2002, on the initiative of commissioner barnier and myself, to present and promote the opportunities offered by community policy for mountain regions. you and all other interested persons will be invited to attend. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the agricultural sector is not affected by the crisis, and i would like to point out that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the mountain regions is not affected by the crisis. i would also remind mrs rojo that the rules for drawing up rural development programmes stipulate that programmes specifically for women must be mentioned and that each rural development programme must also include a chapter on how to help women in particular. the same applies to the common market organisations as to rural development. these also take account of the specific characteristics of extensive farming, particularly in mountain areas, either by specific measures tailored to their specific characteristics, such as the extensification premium for cattle, the premium for sheepmeat and goatmeat production, or by an additional margin of manoeuvre granted to member states to give special support to areas of their choice. the commission will address the special treatment of farmers in mountain areas in relation to milk quotas proposed in the report in the context of the midterm review. finally, with regard to the structural funds, it should be borne in mind that 95% of mountain areas are covered by objective 1 or objective 2. these mountain areas can benefit from all our support schemes, and the member states can tailor the necessary measures to their specific needs, whether it be transport or telecommunications networks, basic services for the population or support for economic activities. in addition, national aid is in principle possible - as mr caveri has pointed out. but here too, we need to continue to notify because this gives the regions a) the assurance that their measures will be considered as complying with eu law and b) because there must be no undue competition between the regions. i cannot address all the proposals in the report here, but i hope that the seminar organized by the commission on the occasion of the international year of mountains will provide ample opportunity to return to the proposals. in the meantime, the commission will, within the framework of its powers and exercising its right of initiative, examine the conclusions of the report in greater detail in order to continue the dialogue launched today. i am sure that we will be able to emphasize the special nature of mountain areas and their importance for europe even more. (applause from the centre)
rapporteur. – mr president, as you suggested, this report is meant to focus on the real opportunity that the un special conference on children and children's rights which takes place later this month gives this parliament to focus on a fundamental way in which we can tackle global poverty. it is an opportunity for us not only to give a profile to this subject but also to call for action. let me set out what the targets are: free and compulsory education for all, halving adult illiteracy by 2015, eliminating gender disparities in primary and secondary schools by 2005 and extending learning opportunities for adults and young people and improvements in the quality of education provided. we are quite tired of hearing about development targets. they are set and they are endless. we know the ‘whys’ for all these development concerns. what we from the committee on development and cooperation are asking is ‘how’ we are going to deliver on these targets. the subject is at the heart of the global strategy that we, in our committee, discuss on poverty. the eu clearly has a key and central role to play here. clear commitments were made at dakar in senegal last year. but neither from the eu nor anyone else really are we getting practical strategies. i was a teacher myself for 30 years, mostly in primary education so i think i am quite justified in having a passion about looking at the reasons for this crisis. one in six of the world's population are functionally illiterate. one hundred and thirty million – one in five – of the total number of children are not in any kind of primary education. one terrible statistic is that two-thirds of those are little girls. their learning situation is terrible. many of will have seen children trying to learn sitting under a tree with not even a blackboard to assist the teacher. when we talk about information technology we are often talking about children who have never even held a pencil in their hand, never mind being likely to sit at the keyboard of a computer. in these schools too the quality of their education is often affected by the fact that they are not taught in their own language. there is a clear link between illiteracy and income poverty. average incomes in a country mirror very clearly the levels of access to education. there is a clear link between child mortality rates and the level of parental education. a 10% increase in girls' enrolment in primary school would bring a substantial improvement in infant and maternal mortality rates. and yet we see aid from developed countries to basic education being slashed from budgets across the globe. it is only 1% of the total. developing countries themselves take insufficient interest in the importance of education. the sub-continent of india spends less than 1% of gdp on education. as far as the eu is concerned, i hope the commissioner will agree that this is not enough. i hope you are not going to state in your presentation that all of this will be incorporated into existing procedures. we need an answer from the commissioner on how we intend to implement the goals. i would like to hear how he intends to improve coordination of the national indicative programmes for cotonou and about our involvement in the steering committee working on education in africa. i also know that there is a promise of a communication on basic education from the commission during the belgian presidency. i would like to know when we might expect to see that. let me just touch on one or two issues. priority for girls obviously, and i suspect that mrs junker will speak about that. last in, first out; that is what happens to girls. girls have a low status and therefore there is no priority for getting them into school. i would like to see a lot more training in ministries in developing countries and concrete programmes to ensure that we get girls into school. the impact of hiv is enormous. there are millions of aids orphans in the developing world and in a country like zambia there are more teachers infected annually with hiv than they are able to train to put in their schools. these are clearly very critical issues for us to discuss. meeting the targets looks difficult. is there sufficient political commitment in current circumstances to ensure that we will get all the girls into school by 2005? the reality is, and i hope that people will admit this very clearly at the un conference the week after next, that as things are going all of these targets are unachievable. meeting the target of universal primary education looks extremely difficult. i would like to know from the commission how its work in trying to achieve these targets includes ngos and civil society and all those people who are involved in the global education campaign. it is a very successful, active and dynamic campaign. i would hope that the european commission is very much engaged with them but i suspect that is not the case. according to the global education campaign, the targets on education would require usd 8 billion a year. this is the equivalent of four days of global military spending and 9 minutes of international currency speculation. therefore it seems to me that if the commitment was there, we could deliver. it is a price worth paying. the current inequities that i have described are untenable and certainly indefensible.
madam president, last week's attacks on innocent civilians in new york and washington shocked and outraged the civilised people across the world. they show the difficulties faced by any state, especially a democracy, in defending its citizens against terrorists. these atrocities and the subsequent search for those responsible also highlight the weaknesses of our defence of the civilian population and throw into sharp relief the painfully slow progress of eu cooperation in justice and home affairs, so boldly trumpeted in amsterdam and in tampere. as the americans seek the arrest of people on european soil who may be responsible, they must shake their heads in disbelief at the multitude of bilateral extradition agreements, which they will need to employ. i welcome commissioner vitorino's statement. the proposals he has put forward today take on board the key recommendations of the report we adopted on 5 september, to which mr poettering so kindly referred. they deserve urgent consideration and swift action by justice and home affairs ministers at their meeting tomorrow. if they are adopted by council, they will represent a major step forward in forging a common eu anti-terrorism policy. i challenge any minister who may resist these proposals in the secrecy of the council chamber to explain publicly to citizens in their own country, or across europe, why they are holding up effective common action in this field. (applause)however welcome and important the commission's proposals are, they are clearly insufficient. they provide answers to the world as it was before last tuesday. they deal with terrorist crimes within the union but do nothing to improve cooperation with countries outside the eu. they fail to solve conflicts of competence between judicial authorities. they leave cooperation and the vital matter of police affairs subject to a national veto, as commissioner vitorino said. if the eu is serious about combating terrorism, we must gear up the operational instruments of common action. we must enable europol to cooperate effectively with third countries. we must give an external dimension to eurojust. we must act decisively too, to combat money laundering in the conciliation currently under way and we must develop common policies for the collection and sharing of criminal intelligence, as mrs neyts pointed out. measures are needed too in foreign and security policy: greater cooperation in the un, in the g8, in the council of europe, urging member states to sign the un convention on the financing of terrorism; export controls on sensitive products and tighter association agreements with third countries. but we must guard against a blurring of the second and the third pillars, which last week's council declaration suggested, and guard too against upsetting the delicate balance between the needs of security and the civil liberties, which our citizens enjoy. i ask whether now is not the time to consign to the rubble of history the clumsy, outdated second and third pillars of the eu cooperation and make their contents core competences of the european union. (applause) the fig leaf of national sovereignty serves only to hide the impotence of nation states. democracy faces supranational challenges and these require a supranational response. our policies will need public support, so our policymaking will need proper democratic oversight and control. i believe that this house stands ready to play its part. we must now call on our national leaders to show the courage and the vision which the moment demands. (applause)
mr president, we will never forget the attacks against the united states, which we utterly condemn. we share the grief of the civilian victims and their families and we share the values of our great ally – democracy and individual freedom. terrorism creates a state of mind. it provokes outrage and reaction, so we must be united, we must be determined and we must be vigilant. however, in addition to our united political reaction, we must adjust the european union's diplomatic standpoint. in the context of the current budget process, we must reassess the eu's vast aid programme, in particular, if states were involved in that terrorism in any way. the eu is perceived as pro-arab. i regret this. we should be pro-democracy. war has been declared and we should unequivocally stand by our american allies. my party and group are committed to giving our full support, in particular to the british government, its partners in the european union and to our nato allies. the scale and nature of the outrage we witnessed in the united states last week gives us a warning of what else the new millennium might bring, so we must look pragmatically at what we need to do together. we should learn from each other as much as possible about how to deal with the security of our people and how best to reduce the tensions which lead to political violence and terrorism. as far as possible, our electors should be allowed to get on with their lives, but we as politicians cannot rest while terrorism lives.
mr president, i was in washington last week leading the european parliament delegation responsible for our relations with the united states congress and we started our pre-commission briefing at 9:00 a.m. on tuesday, 11 september 2001, just after the first plane had hit one of the towers and just before the second. needless to say, our briefing did not go on for very long and we, like so many in the united states, were soon sitting in front of television sets, shocked and silent. that was the mood in america in tuesday. by wednesday, people were angry and frightened, understandably, and so were we. later there was much more thoughtfulness and a more considered response. the many messages from the european union, and indeed from the european parliament, plus the many personal messages of support and solidarity, were very much appreciated. we were able to fulfil part of our delegation duties, we met members of the committee on foreign affairs in the congress and had some very useful, although very sad discussions with them. the question they put to us was: how will europe help us? will europe support us? that was really most difficult. it would have been premature and inappropriate for a partial delegation to respond. of course, we did not know how we should respond. i made a statement to congress on behalf of the delegation which was lodged in the congressional records and i hope with your permission it can be lodged in our own parliament records as well. this statement stressed, apart, of course, from the natural sympathy that we wanted to express, that this had to be tackled by the united states of america and the european union and many other countries in partnership. it is becoming ever clearer that the response must be measured and proportionate, and the consequences for all must be anticipated and planned. there is a clear need for major diplomatic and political initiatives to maintain cooperation with those countries nearest to any possible targets or military action and those at most risk from the consequences. we may be facing terrible times ahead but it is essential that we have the courage as well as the compassion to consider carefully the alternatives. i would like to express my thanks to the many here, including the president, who expressed their concerns for our safety and well-being and particularly to my fellow meps, including mr belder, mrs peijs, my two vice-chairman, the other meps, the parliament staff, council and commission staff interpreters and particularly the commission staff in washington. they were endlessly kind in what was a most difficult week.
mr president, on behalf of my party, may i offer my deepest condolences to the people of the united states. with our very special relationship and with hundreds of british still missing, we too share their desperate feeling of loss. my first observation must be to my own prime minister, who of course was instrumental in the release of over 400 convicted terrorists. we must fight terrorism in all its forms and we must say 'no' to any more appeasement. i would also like to urge the council and commission not to use this opportunity to further the project of european integration. the peoples of europe will not forgive politicians putting their self-interest above the security of the people. however dark and uncertain the future may be, we must stand firm behind the usa as that noble country did for us in our darkest hour. our commitment to the defeat of terrorism must be no less than theirs.
mr president, there is no doubt that the whole of the european union stands together with the people of the united states in utterly and totally condemning those who carried out those terrible atrocities in the united states and in expressing our deepest sympathy to the families who lost their loved ones in these terrible atrocities. the european union and all democratic societies in the world should join together with the united states in seeking to bring to justice those guilty of those atrocities and in doing so, ensure that they target the actual terrorist organisations and their members, not the communities in which they live with the danger of innocent people suffering. generally, terrorism is found in areas of conflict resolution where unfortunately many of those involved believe in what they are doing. the european union can play a major role in solving conflict resolution in the different parts of the world by sending to those areas of conflict not an army but a philosophy of peace based on firm principles. it is often forgotten, that the european union is the best example in the history of the world of conflict resolution. who could have forecast 60 years ago where we all are now? who would have forecast all this in 1941, with the second world war raging and millions being slaughtered. if our parents and grandparents had said "don't worry, your grandchildren will be sitting together in a parliament of a united europe", nobody would have believed them. but it has happened, and how and why it happened is crucial. for that reason the european union, rather than having an army, should set up a commission department of peace and reconciliation with a commissioner of peace and reconciliation to spread this philosophy. firstly, in all areas of conflict you have divided peoples. violence has no role to play in healing the divisions. dialogue is the first step. secondly there is the principle of respect for difference because all conflict is about difference, whether of religion, nationality or race. thirdly, you need to create institutions which respect those differences, and the fourth element is working together in the common interest. those are the principles at the heart of the european union that solved the worst conflicts in the history of the world and are the principles that should be at the heart of conflict resolution in any area of conflict.
mr president, in the united kingdom we have unity of purpose at this tragic time. we are reassured by the solidarity with the united states expressed by political leaders right across europe. previously, the enthusiasm of so many european politicians for european integration has been fuelled by anti-americanism. there must be no more of this. seldom has the need for euro/atlantic unity been more vital. i trust that european union leaders will make sure that there is no backsliding by any european governments when the going starts to get rough. in previous crises, the resolve of some has quickly crumbled. it would be singularly inappropriate to use this crisis to promote and accelerate the integrationist agenda of the union, in particular the essentially separatist elements of european defence policy. our motive must be serious action against terrorism, not just seizing an opportunity to extend eu competencies. on the internal front, i hope that the proposed european union common definition of terrorist crime and associated legislation will be sufficiently robust to allow effective action at last to be taken against large numbers of terrorist front organisations throughout europe. i have to say, i doubt it. the problem is that too many terrorists have their apologists and masquerade in other guises. ways need to be found to prevent terrorist support groups from carrying out what are still regarded as legal acts in our countries, such as recruiting, indoctrinating, broadcasting and fund-raising in order to sustain illegal acts elsewhere. specifically, it is time for the seven european union countries which have not yet done so, including the belgian presidency, to ratify and implement the un convention for the suppression of terrorist financing, so that the black money networks which sustain terrorist organisations can be closed down. democratic society needs to protect itself and be able to deal with real dangers. in recent years, it has been progressively disarmed.
mr president, i share and express my sympathy for the united states and for the other victims of this terrible incident. as a former northern ireland minister, i have been a terrorist target and i have faced the tv cameras surrounded by the wreckage of a terrorist incident. i know, therefore, how important it is to get both the response right and also to protect the general public as far as is possible in a democracy. like my colleague, mr jarzembowski, i am chiefly concerned about aviation and the mostly ordinary people who rely on it. as a member of the committee on transport, i have written to the chairman of that committee asking for early consideration of the implications for this important industry. first of all, security at airports and on aircraft; secondly, the control of congested airspace in view of the likely increase in military activity, the dangers of hostile incursion into european civil airspace and, of course, as he said, about the continued viability of european airlines. it is vital that we are consistent in our approach to public safety and to the collective peace of mind throughout the union. we must not overreact, exacerbating the understandable fears of the traveller and threatening their civil liberties, but we must get it right and we must do so immediately. we must act alongside our friends and allies within the united states of america and in international organisations such as the icao. to get it right will require work and effort and a commitment: as mr van orden said, we want to make certain that we are saying and doing the same things in six months' time as we profess to do now. in conclusion, the message is quite simple: terrorism must not be allowed to win.
mr president, commissioner, you will be aware that the regional and transport committee has started its deliberations on social and economic cohesion via the second cohesion report and that this report launches the debate on how we face up to the challenges of regional funding and structural policy in an enlarged europe. however, whilst i am grateful for the commissioner's statement today, my group is still disappointed with the commission as it appears that it has not used its right of initiative and has not engaged itself fully on this topic. it raises the question as to what the real proposals of the commission are. commissioner barnier referred to the meeting in may in which many members participated, but again nothing concrete seems to have come out of that meeting. on our side of the political divide, we recognised at an early stage how sensitive this issue could be and indeed our experience of agenda 2000 was the catalyst that told us this. but then commissioner wulf-matthies facilitated a common position with parliament and so we feel that the time is now right for us to start work with the commission as it becomes more active, positive and decisive. my group has discussed in detail the questions that you have posed. the main points emanating from our discussion revolve around the principle of keeping the concept of social and economic cohesion and its most representative instrument, namely the cohesion fund. but a thorough discussion is required on implementing the goals of the cohesion policy before we make any decisions on the future financing of structural aid. at the moment, we are facing a number of great challenges and any discussion on the implementation of cohesion fund has to include other areas under the umbrella of sustainable development, such as employment and agriculture. we must continue to ensure that the poorer regions that presently receive structural aid are not mistreated in the future and that community initiatives, such interreg and urban, are retained. we also question whether 1.27% of the community gdp, as was decided on in agenda 2000, is enough with regard to the new cohesion fund. in launching this debate, it is our view that our discussions would have been more fruitful and more meaningful if the commission had come forward with ideas of its own so that it could act as a facilitator of those discussions. we know that it is an important issue. at the moment, we are left with a series of questionnaires, but we can give the commissioner a guarantee that our group will be fully involved in discussions in the coming months.
the commission. - mr president, i should like to congratulate mrs valenciano martínez-orozco and to stress from the outset the political importance and impact of this report, which will certainly be even greater if there is a substantial majority in support of it. the report will give a boost to the work of the commission, but even more so to the women's organizations in europe and africa which are trying to combat this barbarity. it is a problem which, as many members of parliament have said, is not confined to africa. in europe today, according to the daphne programme, there are about 700 000 women from these countries. it's hard to put a number on it, but the suspicion is that it's much bigger than we can imagine. it's a difficult and thorny problem. clearly, cultural traditions have been involved for centuries in some parts of the world. but it is impossible for any cultural tradition to be an alibi for human rights violations. it is clear and it was also stated at the beijing world conference that genital mutilation is a violation of human rights and, secondly, it is discrimination, since it is only done to women and girls. what can the european union do? the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. there is disagreement as to whether the existing treaty provides the legal basis for european legislation. the charter of human rights adopted in nice is a basis which, however, cannot yet be legal. but legislation is not always the only solution. there is a lot that can be done in this area. the asylum issue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to say that the commission has just a few days ago submitted a proposal for a directive to the council on the minimum requirements for the recognition of the status of third country nationals or stateless persons or refugees under the geneva convention, and after much discussion and effort, the text clearly states that the application for protection of women is recognised, and that is in the case of possible sexual violence or other gender-related behaviour. i think it is worth considering this commission proposal, which may also provide the basis for an agreement which would be very important for all the groups in the european parliament. but beyond the legislative framework, on the basis of the programmes that exist today in the european union, actions and campaigns can be supported to recognise the problem, to activate and raise awareness of societies and, of course, to inform and train hospital staff. the health and care services in at least five countries of the european union are very often confronted with such cases and must have special training and special skills to help such people. the possibility of training and supporting migrant women. it is certain that women who can stand up financially, who can make their own revolution, must be financially empowered. so supporting immigrant women in europe is a very important issue. the support and integration of these people into the labour market and the financing of information and awareness campaigns can be done through existing programmes, which we have already discussed in parliament and we are also awaiting proposals from non-governmental organisations concerned with these issues. as regards our relations with the third world, a major effort has already been made in the context of development aid to make respect for human rights a condition for governments, particularly in this area, and to take account of the efforts of governments to implement policies relating to education, training, awareness and support for women and families. the commission has already, in cooperation with the development sector and the commissioner responsible, planned to increase financial support to countries that will focus on trying to eliminate this phenomenon. i think that the implementation of this programme in ethiopia gives us satisfactory insights into what we can achieve in cooperation between the european union and governments through development aid. finally, we believe that ngos can play a catalytic role both in the european union and in african countries, and that is why they are the main interlocutors, the main partners of the commission in this endeavour.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. communication of common positions of the council: see minutes.
- the next item is the report (a5-0275/2001) by mrs smet, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, on equal pay for work of equal value.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to congratulate mrs smet on her report and thank the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities for adopting so many of the conclusions produced by the committee on employment and social affairs. three things are clear: one, women's wages are on average lower than men's across all occupations; two, women are predominantly employed in areas where the work has traditionally been regarded as of less value; three, women comprise a significantly higher proportion of part-time workers than men. the problem is therefore, clearly a deeply rooted one and cannot be solved without concerted action by all parties. this must include the introduction of job evaluation schemes based on objective, gender-neutral criteria, so that the current undervaluing of women's skills is brought to an end. however, we need also, as mrs smet has said, a much wider range of initiatives designed to tackle the structural disadvantages suffered by women on the labour market. the committee on employment and social affairs is appreciative of the extent to which the commission is already addressing the issue through its proposals for the employment guidelines in 2002. the emphasis on gender mainstreaming and the strengthening of guideline 17 are particularly welcome. we also look forward to the proposals the commission may have for a revision and updating of the 1975 equal pay directive. in the meantime, we call on both the member states and the social partners to involve themselves actively in developing measures of the kind urgently needed to eliminate the gender pay gap.
mr president, this is a very important issue because this is discrimination which faces all women, not only in the eu, but across the world. we therefore welcome this report as its findings are indeed serious. it shows, as the rapporteur said, that there is a 20-25% difference between male and female earnings on average in the european union and that in some member states the situation is much worse. this report is a very practical one, putting forward measures which actually suggest very concrete things which can be done to address this very difficult issue. so we support the measures set out in the report and call for this action to be taken sooner rather than later, because this is discrimination that women have faced for a very long time. we have hundreds of years of discrimination to address and we need to get on with doing that. i certainly support all calls for this to become a priority for the eu and for the commission. i would particularly like to draw attention to the fact that there are three member states mentioned in the report in which the situation is significantly worse, worse enough for them to be singled out in the report. those member states therefore have a special responsibility to take action and to ensure that they get themselves up to the eu average as quickly as possible. there are two other things in the report i would like to highlight. first of all awareness campaigns: these are something that member states could actually do without too much difficulty. they will not address the actual issues in the workplace, but it is something which governments can do relatively easily. the other thing which the report mentions, which i would like to draw attention to, is that governments themselves can provide a model, and i therefore call on member state governments to look at their own employment policies and identify how they might become better employers themselves.
the commission. - mr president, i too would like to congratulate mrs smet in particular, whose report shows her personal knowledge and experience of the subject. the issue of pay for men and women is now a clear and unambiguous illustration of the inequality between women and men. i shall not repeat what has been said with data or analysis of the causes of the existing inequality. i would like to refer to what is happening today in policy and planning. as you know, the fourth pillar of the employment strategy, which concerns equal opportunities, has been tackling the issue of unequal pay since the implementation of the employment strategy, which began in 1999. the commission has assessed the equal pay policies of each member state over the years since 1999. what we have seen over the last three years is that in several, not all, member states, the difference has been recognised, the problem has been recognised and policies and measures have been proposed to deal with it. the commission, in its annual joint report, makes specific reference to this issue on the basis of the data available to it and makes recommendations to the member states for their policies. the question is what tools the commission has at its disposal to make this assessment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is a need for new objects which need to be studied statistically to fully capture the problem. the commission has already moved on to these new items. i will refer to one of them. we must, for example, study statistically the ratio of men and women in hourly wages for paid employees working more than 15 hours. there is a need to analyse gross and net wages in the public and private sectors and this means a breakdown by age, education, occupation, economic activity, type of work, employment status. these figures are given in the way i have mentioned above in very few countries. and apart from the problem of the object of the statistical study, we also have a problem with the method of conducting statistical surveys. there are member states with a long gap between the time they collect the data and the time they publish the final result. and this is not just in the member states, but in some statistics of the european union itself. so improving statistics, as a very important tool for improving policies, is our priority. and you will see that in this year's recommendations in many member states there is specific reference to the need to improve statistical systems. the second key element is the guidelines for 2002. i think it is a very clear strategy, where member states are called upon to set specific targets for reducing the gender pay gap. and of course our aim is to work with all the member states, to exchange best practice, so that some countries can emulate others who have already made progress. the third point i would like to make is that in the fifth programme, which is now being implemented - the evaluation phase of the proposals submitted is now being completed - the first priority for the selection of the proposals submitted is the issue of equal pay. we have even structured the priorities to be given by the programmes into five separate areas in order to study the issue of equal pay and to proceed as many speakers have stressed, the need for an integrated strategy. a few days ago, on 13 september, the belgian presidency and the commission held a major conference on equal pay. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to say that, taking into account the result of all these actions and the evaluation of the policies i have just mentioned, we will also take the final decision on the revision of the existing directive.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0283/2001) by mr andersson, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on harassment at work.
this is what i call harassment in the workplace. i cannot speak without people smoking behind me and that gives me an asthma attack and that is harassment. i congratulate mr andersson on his report. it is important for action at both national and european level because, as we have heard, 12 million people are harassed or bullied in the workplace every year. there are many forms of harassment and as i said, smoking in the workplace in no-smoking areas is a form of harassment. it can also have devastating effects, both physically and pyschologically. the level of stress caused by bullying and harassment in a workplace is tremendous. disabled people, women and in particular, ethnic minorities, suffer a great deal. they can be doubly discriminated against and are harassed simply because they come from those disadvantaged, discriminated groups. i am also glad that mr andersson referred to those on short-term contracts because again we have evidence that those too, are bullied. but can i turn quickly to the reason for the split votes that the eldr has asked for on paragraphs 8 and 13. i believe that it is a role of the european union to have common guidelines, best practice and benchmarking across the member states, but i do not believe that we need more binding legislation: that is a role for the member states and a question of subsidiarity. so although i agree with much of mr andersson's report, i disagree with the fact that we should have binding legislation and that is why we have called for the split vote.
mr president, my group would also like to congratulate mr andersson for his work on this excellent own-initiative report: it has been a very good evening for those. as has already been said, we should not underestimate the effect that harassment in all its forms has on people's lives and health and the long-term mental and psychological problems we have heard about. if we are looking at figures, then if we were to take this parliament as an example, we would be looking at a group roughly the size of the liberal democrat group as the percentage of those suffering harassment. up to now, very little has really been done to address the problem of harassment generally, so this report is especially welcome as it allows an open debate on an issue that has all too often been ignored. a french survey also reveals that 70% of harassment of victims are women and this applies at all points of the employment process, so not only do you get paid less, you get harassed as well, and chauvinist and sexist connotations, which are more often targeted at women than at men, can frequently turn into something more serious. therefore the commission should give particular attention to ways of tackling this unacceptable situation for women in europe. mr andersson is right, employers must have the responsibility for preventing harassment in the workplace, not colluding with it, or practising it. however the framework directive on health and safety at work does not clarify whether employers are responsible for the mental, psycho-social or social working environment, so i believe steps should be taken to revise the directive to include this definition.
the commission. - mr president, i would like to congratulate mr andersson on his excellent report and i would agree with him that the issue of harassment is a very serious one, it is a hazard in the workplace and has significant social and economic implications, both for the worker and the company, and for the economy as a whole, as it is one of the major causes of reduced productivity. i would like to assure the house that the commission is fully aware of the problem, and that is why this issue is one of the important elements of the communication on quality which the commission made in june, and it is one of the issues in which we are also looking at indicators. i should also like to remind you that, in accordance with the existing instruments, there is a need for protection by the social partners - and the social partners can play an important role in this regard - and i would like to remind you of directive 89/391/ec, a directive which makes it clear that, in terms of prevention of risks at the workplace, psychosocial constraints, which are not always easy to define, must also be taken into account. i would like to inform you that an advisory committee of representatives of the member states is already working on the subject of health and safety and that a subcommittee has been appointed to study the subject of violence at work in particular. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has just completed its work and there is now a definition of violence at work in general. the proposal to take the initiative of a green paper on this subject is not feasible at the moment and i will explain the reasons at once: the commission has taken the initiative of reviewing the overall strategy for health and safety at work. the report will play an important role in this change and in proposing a new strategy for health and safety, and i thank the rapporteur for that.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following reports: - a5-0293/2001 by mrs oomen-ruijten, on behalf of parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from large combustion plants; - a5-0292/2001 by mrs riitta myller, on behalf of the parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a european parliament and council directive setting national emission ceilings for certain atmospheric pollutants.
mr president, i would like to congratulate both the parliament's rapporteurs on the hard work that they put in. they produced a result which they can be proud of. it was produced after an immense amount of work very late at night. however, speaking as a british member of the european parliament there were enormous difficulties about these directives, particularly the large combustion plants directive. i want to focus on the point that we laboured under the enormous difficulty that neither the commission nor the council really came clean about the impact of what they were proposing. nor did they give us an accurate assessment or help us assess the impact of what the european parliament was proposing. mr bowe and i, as british members of the european parliament, were faced with lobbies from britain basically saying that if we adopted the parliament's amendments, the british coal mines which are still in production would all have to close down. we were therefore faced with the possibility of voting for amendments and voting for reports from our own committee which would have had a very serious economic impact in our own member state. when we went to the council of ministers meeting, we found that there were other member states with exactly the same problems, finland, for example, where the ministers and governments of those countries had never really contacted their members of the european parliament to explain the difficulties they thought they were going to have. we also had the extraordinary situation, when we got to the codecision meeting, where four civil servants delivered speeches that really should have been made by ministers. the point i want to make is this. we need two things: we need much greater honesty from member states and the commission about the actual impact in the member states of what is being proposed and what is being discussed. there should at least be some advice on that. secondly, when we go to the codecision meetings we must stop having meetings between fifteen meps, one minister, and fourteen civil servants. that is ridiculous. many of the points made to us on the reports by mrs oomen-ruijten and mrs myller should have been made by ministers. it is ministers we want to meet when we go to the codecision meetings.
mr president, i will just simply say first as a british member, that i would endorse what mrs jackson said. only the people in this room really know just how much work both the rapporteurs did to reach this final position and to get these two reports as proposals to this parliament for a final vote. we are your peers and we know how much hard work you did and we congratulate you both on that work. it has been a very long time and this is one of the most difficult reports i have seen in twelve years in parliament. finally though, despite all the difficulties and even the final conciliation, we have a workable and practical proposal. it is not going to be easy. it is going, in fact, to be extremely hard with regard to some of the requirements, but it strikes a satisfactory balance between the protection of the environment on the one hand and society's need for a reliable and secure source of power at an affordable price, which is something we cannot ignore. changes are going to have to take place to meet the requirements of this proposal. the power industry will undoubtedly be required to replace some old plant, hopefully by some more modern sources of power generation. there is going to be a substantial reduction in sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions which are the main causes of acid rain and ground-level ozone with a consequent improvement in the environmental conditions for human health. one possible side effect may be that as the general efficiency of power plant operation improves, we will see an overall reduction in carbon dioxide in comparison to the energy generated. that would be a helpful and useful side effect of this legislation. it will not be easy to put all these measures into place. there is a long time scale. that is acceptable and understandable in these circumstances, so on behalf of the socialist group, i welcome these proposals and we will give them our support in the vote tomorrow.
mr president, i would like to welcome both the directives and congratulate both rapporteurs as other members have done. i have particularly followed the debate on the limitation of emissions of large combustion plants. these plants are one of the biggest emitters of air pollutants in europe after transport emissions and therefore it is very important we have stringent legislation to control this. the inclusion of existing plants is a major improvement on former legislation. it means there will be a level playing field for all plants including the worst polluters and some plants in the applicant countries, which can generate electricity more cheaply because they have fewer controls and do not have to meet the same standards. again, as other members have said, we can reassure people that because of the various derogations and allowances for lower standards, which were built into the final compromise text, current power stations such as aberthaw in my own constituency are under no threat. aberthaw coal-fired power station has been the subject of considerable press and media attention due to perceived threats to its viability and its profitability from this directive. in fact the opposite is true. the directive will actually protect jobs in the welsh coal and generating industries in the longer term. this has been a very important debate, because it has shown that there is not a straight choice between cleaner air standards and employment, as some would have us believe. work to combat pollution can go hand-in-hand with protecting jobs and sustaining communities. my group also supports the compromise which tightens the limit values for sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide and introduces generally stronger standards. the group also supports the results of the conciliation on mrs myller's report on the national emission ceilings directive and we will be voting in favour of that too.
commission. – mr president, honourable members, i am very pleased that these two important additions to community legislation on air pollution are reaching the stage of final adoption. i join with you in congratulating and thanking both rapporteurs, mrs oomen-ruijten and mrs myller, for their efforts, but i would also like to thank the president of parliament's delegation, mr friedrich, for his role in bringing these negotiations to a successful conclusion – unfortunately he cannot be here this evening – and mr provan for stepping in at the last moment in what proved to be one of the finest evenings of the summer. the proposals on national emission ceilings (necs) and large combustion plants (lcps) represent a major advance in community legislation on air pollution. as you know, the nec proposal would help to establish an ongoing programme for tackling transboundary air pollution by requiring members states to limit the emissions which cause most damage, not only to themselves but, as mrs hulthén said, to their neighbours. the first stage sets legally binding emissions ceilings which member states will have to meet by 2010. it provides for a series of periodic reviews – in 2004, 2008 and 2012 – in order to reduce emissions ceilings more in the future: this review system has been strengthened a great deal in response to parliament's concerns. the first reviews will try to make up the shortfall by 2010 taking into account total emissions for the community as a whole as set out in the commission original proposal. all reviews will look at how we can achieve our long-term goals of staying below critical environmental levels after 2010. the year 2020 will then be taken as a benchmark. in subsequent reviews, the commission will report, in particular, on progress towards attaining our long-term goals and, with these aims in mind, will consider what further measures are necessary to achieve these goals, as the rapporteur has said, "preferably by 2020". at the same time, with the large combustion plant proposal, new and tougher emissions standards will apply in the power generation sector, in particular for older power plants which are a major cause of acidification and ozone pollution. the commission's analysis of the common position on large combustion plants shows that both sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from this sector will fall substantially as a result of this legislation. the compromise on the lcp proposal will provide medium-term flexibility to take account of differing circumstances in the member states as well as substantial environmental benefits in the long term in an enlarged community. parliament has achieved a great deal in this debate and should be very proud of its contribution. the commission is pleased with the outcome. by approving this legislation, the commission will be under an obligation to return in 2004 to review both directives and present its proposals for further progress. we have already explained how we intend to prepare for this first review in the communication on clean air for europe which we presented in may 2001, and work is already under way on this. in conclusion, i invite parliament to adopt the outcome of conciliation and to join us in moving forward. i look forward to parliament's support for cafe.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. the next item is the report (doc. (the sitting was closed at 11.30 a.m.)
mr president, i endorse what the rapporteur, mr marinho, said. the truly tragic events of last week emphasise the importance of the fight against terrorism and organised crime. the coalition we are striving to build across the world to fight against terrorism is trying to find a cure to the problem, but there is also the issue of prevention in terms of security and diplomacy. other steps too are necessary if we are going to prevent those kinds of crimes from happening again. the second directive on money laundering is already in conciliation and we are trying to get it through. we have to recognise that at european union level we need only one legal area. it is illogical for people to apply for asylum between one member state and another within the european union. it is illogical for us to have a situation where a warrant for arrest is not applicable across the whole of the european union. there was a case where someone fled to the united kingdom from france and managed to stall his extradition back to france for the crime of terrorism. he has actually faced the courts for a period of five years. the series of reports we have before us this morning attempt to move things forward. mr marinho's report is part of that initiative by the french, swedish and belgian governments and i congratulate him and them on this report. a judicial decision in one member state must have automatic application across the whole of the union. we must have the mutual recognition that mr marinho calls for. mr bin laden has a london bank account. one might hope that this report will make it easier for that account and similar accounts elsewhere in europe to be frozen if that was proven necessary. on behalf of the party of european socialists, i support this report and the similar measures that will follow in the other reports this morning and in subsequent weeks and months. the best memorial for those innocent people who died so tragically last week is to take action to prevent its repetition. this is one small part of that process.
mr president, the united kingdom is largely outside the provisions of the schengen acquis. the policy of the british conservatives towards schengen is therefore rather like our policy towards the euro. we wish our neighbours and allies well, but it is not our businesses to tell them how to run initiatives which we have no intention of joining ourselves. accordingly, as is becoming traditional on these occasions, my party will be abstaining. there is another matter which is becoming traditional on these occasions. no report on schengen is complete without a ritual complaint about the failure of the united kingdom and the irish republic to take part. thus, in mr coelho's otherwise admirable report, we have paragraph 2, which in a somewhat brusque tone calls on those two states to abolish their border controls. this parliament has repeatedly expressed the viewed, echoed by commissioner vitorino, that the uk opt-out is illegal under the terms of the single european act. i believe that this is legally flawed, but that is not my point today. my point rather, is that by persistently seeking to challenge a derogation which was clearly understood by all sides at the time, this parliament is acting in bad faith. it is worth recalling the circumstances in which the schengen accord was built into the treaties. that decision, like all treaty changes, required unanimity. without the consent of the united kingdom, schengen would have had to continue to exist within a separate legal framework. the british government took the view that if other states wished to go ahead on their own using the institutions and mechanisms of the european communities then it was not britain's place to hinder them. accordingly, it allowed the other states to push ahead within the treaties, but only subject to a clear guarantee that the uk's own border controls would not be affected. that guarantee was written in black and white into the amsterdam treaty. no sooner had amsterdam come into force however, than the european commission and parliament began to question the opt-out. not for the first time, the uk had allowed other states to use the common procedures of the european treaties only for those states promptly to start clamouring for britain's inclusion. as with schengen, so with the social chapter and so with economic and monetary union – in all three cases britain consented to a new eu initiative on the clear understanding that it would not be affected, only for its derogation later to be disputed. this surely is no way for the union to proceed. after all if opt-outs are no longer legally reliable, the only alternative is a rather more promiscuous use of the national veto and that i submit would be even more objectionable to the integrationist majority in this house than it is to me.
rapporteur. – mr president, i have the honour to have my name attached to this report but most of the work has been done by my christian democrat colleague, mr ingo schmitt, who took this report through committee. due to the result of the vote, he chose not to pursue it by introducing it in plenary and i am doing so on behalf of my committee. the commission has proposed a council directive on minimum standards for procedures in member states for granting and withdrawing refugee status. the commission has come forward with proposals for a number of rules on the handling of asylum applications. this is very much a first step towards the common asylum system which the commission has proposed and which this house has on many occasions supported. these rules cover reception and detention facilities, the content of refugee status and the application process. they designate time limits for applications and appeals and they introduce specific rules for dealing with inadmissible cases. it is my honour to present on behalf of the committee a number of amendments to these proposals. we recognise that these amendments are not binding but we hope that they will be considered carefully and taken on board in policy formulation. our amendments seek to clarify and strengthen the position of asylum seekers. we aim to ensure due respect for the geneva convention and its protocols and for the european convention on human rights when dealing with applications for asylum. we aim to secure for asylum seekers the right to remain on the territory of a member state until their appeal has been decided. we recommend special attention be paid to the cases of applications from women and children who have been particularly vulnerable to abuse and attack in the countries from which they flee. we seek to improve access to legal assistance for those seeking asylum and to emphasise that asylum seekers should not be sent back to places where their lives might be in danger. as a general rule, we reject or resist the practice of holding asylum seekers in detention centres. i for one welcome the recent united kingdom court ruling against the uk government's practice of locking asylum seekers in detention centres, however modern those centres may be. we believe that asylum seekers who are often escaping persecution of the worst kind in their homelands have the right to be treated with dignity when they reach our shores. we understand the pressures on member states but we reject the creeping tendency we see towards a dilution of the rights of asylum seekers. we believe that the determination of refugee status must remain a legal matter and not a matter of politics or one of political expediency. the health of a society is judged not only by its practices but also by the direction in which its face is set and my committee believes that the commission's policy is taking us in the right direction even if we seek greater clarity in the rights of some of those to whom it is directed. it is not only a question of our legal and humanitarian obligations but also a question of economic and administrative common sense. the more asylum seekers that a government rejects – perhaps in the hope of courting short-term popular support of the basest nature – the more appeals it will face, the more it will be tied down in lengthy processes which will hit the taxpayer in the pocket. our amendments seek to ensure not only administrative efficiency but also a humanitarian approach to the position of those on our planet who deserve our support and protection. i hope the house will follow the line that has been put forward by the committee in this report.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. – mr president, the foreign affairs committee welcomes the changes made at the committee stage of this report, for as the common asylum and immigration policy of the eu develops, it is essential that its impact on the outside world and especially upon our close neighbours is fully taken into account. these countries, many of them candidate states, are at the sharp end of the refugee problem. most of them have no experience of refugee and asylum policy. they all lack the financial and human resources to deal competently with applications to stay. the foreign affairs committee also felt it was important to insert a reference to the eu charter of fundamental rights, as well as the obligation to respect all existing international law commitments. finally, we have also insisted that the eu's new procedures should aim to contribute to the improvement of international relations by being as clear, transparent and reasoned as possible, so that their interpretation by third countries and their citizens will be facilitated.
mr president, may i thank mr watson on behalf of our committee for bringing this report to plenary. i listened carefully to what mr watson and mr schmitt just said. mr schmitt spoke a lot about unjustified applications and, of course, we need to look at all applications properly. mr schmitt said, and i wholeheartedly agree with him, that member states have to do more to address the root causes that are forcing people to migrate across europe and across the world, but it is not easy to address the root causes in the countries from where many asylum seekers come. the highest number of asylum seekers in europe come from afghanistan, iran and sri lanka and at the moment, as we know only too well, it will not be easy to address quickly the situation in afghanistan: we watch that situation with some terror. nearer to home, we are affected, at the moment by the lack of a common working asylum system for europe and the separate issue of a common immigration policy, which will come later. but we see on our television screens, certainly in britain and france nightly, and colleagues in spain have a similar problem, the way that the lack of a proper system manifests itself in tragedy. asylum seekers are desperate people escaping in many cases war, violence and torture. yes, mr schmitt, some of them are just escaping poverty, but we should not knock them for that. we need to give them respect and make certain that they are treated fairly. this report calls for high standards for reception of asylum seekers, to recognise that they are not criminals while their cases are being heard. people escaping from the worst situations do not need to be detained in prisons, detention centres and i agree with mr watson on this. those escaping from war and torture do not need to be welcomed by barbed wire and armed guards. they need to have their cases heard properly, they need a fair system and they need a system that puts the individual at the heart of the process. this report goes some way towards that, but it is part of a much wider picture working towards a common european asylum system with a separate immigration system alongside it. i hope that we can get this through as amended and continue the vast amount of work still to be done in this area.
madam president, the objective of this important report is to produce an asylum system that is fair: fair on asylum seekers, but fair on taxpayers too. this report is not about who you should accept as a refugee, and i remind mr schmitt of that, but about how you decide which claims are valid. it is a great fallacy to assume that if you give asylum seekers less help in making their claims, they will somehow disappear and cost less time and money. governments in search of populist headlines about the number of applications rejected from so-called bogus asylum seekers should tell the truth. the truth is that cutting corners early on in the procedure ends up costing a lot more in administration, court time, lawyers and the cost of food and shelter. i fear that mr schmitt did not understand this truth and has somehow misled members of his group. i appeal therefore to those moderate members of the conservative/christian democrat group to join the majority in this parliament in strengthening the guarantees in the asylum procedure, because investment in high quality initial decisions including such matters as assistance with interpretation, legal advice, proper interviews and reasonable time limits, is a good bargain. then on the question of fair treatment i would like to stress in particular the use of the safe third country concept. my group accepts the use of this concept as a guidance, but it must be one which is capable of being rebutted in an individual case. it is perfectly fair that an asylum seeker from, say, canada, will have a greater job convincing the authorities that asylum is justified, compared to someone coming for example from iraq. but it should be possible to make that case through individual assessment, not with a blanket dismissal of the claim.
madam president, we have heard a great deal over the last few days about some of the values which we hold dear, especially those of democracy and freedom. i would like to add: humanity, respect for human rights and equality before the law. so, within that context, i welcome much of the report now presented by mr watson: that perspective however, also explains why my group will not be supporting amendments proposed by the ppe-de group which we rejected in committee and which we believe seek to restrict the rights of asylum seekers. i particularly welcome some of the amendments proposed by the committee, which state that the right to refugee status should be recognised rather than granted: refugee status is a legal right, not the gift of a benevolent regime. i also welcome the recognition that there are forms of persecution which are not included in the geneva convention. we debated such an issue in this house only last night, that of female genital mutilation. my group believes that we should be building on the geneva convention and that hopefully a common asylum policy will eventually do that. we also welcome the fact that the gender dimension is now recognised in this report. we also welcome the recognition of the need for the interviewing and assessment process for asylum applications to take place in the applicant's own language. this is crucial as the outcome of such procedures can literally be a matter of life or death for the applicant. how can we expect an individual who has suffered torture, humiliation or sexual degradation to express that in a language in which they can just get by. my group, however, rejects the concept of a safe third country. when we look at the huge variation between members states of what they view as safe we can see the problems raised by this concept, especially taking new forms of persecution into account. as baroness ludford has said, every application must be dealt with on its own merits. we need the highest standards possible, and in that respect, this report has made substantial improvements.
i am sorry to have to make a point of order again about smoking in the workplace. as i was about to make a speech on harassment at work during last night's plenary session, the people in the booth behind me were smoking with the door open. i had an asthma attack just before i was due to speak. that is a case of harassment at the workplace.
- you're absolutely right. apart from your personal health issues, this is a matter of courtesy. members, like everyone else, should not smoke outside the designated smoking areas.
- before proceeding with the vote, i have the great pleasure of welcoming to the chamber mrs chantal compaore, wife of the president of burkina faso and travelling ambassador of the organisation of african unity against female genital mutilation, and mrs shamin kahn, deputy minister for social affairs of tanzania, who have just taken their seats in the official gallery. we welcome them to this house. (applause from the left)
- that concludes voting time. the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment.
in writing. - the british conservatives naturally deplore the practice of female genital mutilation, wherever it is practised. while we are pleased that some countries have already made this practice illegal, we are not convinced that this report will help to put an end to it. that is why the conservatives abstained, because we believe that from an international point of view, diplomatic measures should be intensified to put pressure on countries which continue to allow female genital mutilation, and that global education and diplomatic initiatives are the best means of putting an end to this practice. we certainly do not want to see the 1951 geneva convention extended to cover the criteria it sets for asylum, however just the cause.
- this ends the explanations of vote. transmission of resolutions adopted during the sitting - calendar of next sittings: see minutes.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.20 p.m.)
madam president, in reference to wednesday's agenda following the point made by mr barón crespo, last tuesday i and two other members of this house had the honour of meeting with the former king of afghanistan, mohammed zahir shah. at that meeting we discussed the possibility of his playing a role in some form of mediation in afghanistan leading to the restoration of the democracy which he established in 1964, and which involved free media, free elections and the involvement of women in politics – a very far cry from the current state of affairs in afghanistan. he also asked us to extend his respects to you, madam president, and to the house as a whole, and hoped that in due course he would be able to visit the european parliament. yesterday i spoke to mr patten on this matter and hope there will be some development in this regard involving not only parliament but the european union as a whole. on the agenda for wednesday, it seems to me rather sad that, in spite of the special nature of this international situation, reflected by our solemn sitting the day after the events in america on 11 september and the succeeding week, the council has made a number of proposals for legislation following the terrorist acts which many of us consider as tantamount to an act of war. in this regard, the european parliament will no doubt be involved in the normal procedures. it would be helpful to have a longer debate on wednesday and not take the ghent council with the question of terrorism. secondly, could you give us some indication of when the house will know the procedures to be followed with its committees for the examination, with proper scrutiny, of the proposals now being made by the council?
madam president, mrs banotti has already raised the matter of the effect of the acts of terrorism on airlines. it is more than airlines: the european tourism industry is europe's biggest industry, and the world travel and tourism council estimates at the present time that two million jobs could be lost in europe. this is a very serious matter. i hope the commission and council can address this and come forward with some proposals to try and alleviate the situation, because it could be quite drastic. i have just returned from the united states where hotel accommodation is currently about 20% of capacity and aircraft are operating at between 25 and 33% of capacity. there has been a huge reaction and i hope the council and, in particular, the commission can do something to help before matters get really serious in europe.
mr president, it may well be that 100 years ago our cities resounded to the noise of iron wheels and iron hooves bouncing off cobbled stones. i suspect that made a hell of a din. nonetheless the impression is that our society has become noisier with more machinery, hi-fis and stereos, planes, trains and, above all, motorways. i am all in favour of cutting noise and making life more pleasant, peaceful and calm. i support the commission's proposals for common measurements so that we all know what we are looking at and what we are hearing across the european union. i support the idea of noise mapping and i support legislation under single market rules to introduce limits on noise from new equipment being introduced and sold throughout the european union. but i am opposed to the union seeking noise limits on installations in any individual member state. i do so, as i have argued strongly in committee, on the grounds of subsidiarity, in the belief that decisions should be taken at the lowest practical level. in almost every case in the committee on the environment, we deal with issues which should rightly be dealt with at european union level, because they concern matters which affect more than one member state – transboundary issues. but today i arrived in parliament, i opened my window in the office in the tower and i could not hear strasbourg airport, i could not even hear the railway. all i could hear was someone shouting down in the courtyard. i do not regard noise from airports as a transboundary issue and i am pleased that the committee rejected a number of the amendments which were tabled. i will be urging my group to reject amendment no 34 here because it still implies that noise limits should be introduced. mr de roo commented on amendment no 36 that the eight-hour sleep limit is essential for everyone. that may be the case. it may also be the case that a cup of cocoa and a bedtime story are essential for everyone but this is not something which should be done at eu level. we should not be setting standards for these things. what is fascinating about this debate, as it was in committee and here now, is that for the best possible reasons – the improvement of health and enhancing the environment – measures have been suggested to us which represent a sort of creeping centralisation which, at the end of the day, makes the european union seem bossy and interfering to far too many of our constituents. we should take this opportunity, and indeed every opportunity, to put into practice our belief that wherever possible we should be applying strictly the principles of subsidiarity and making sure that when we take measures on behalf of the environment at european union level it is because they will genuinely make a difference to individuals and cannot be done by individual member states.
mr president, i should like to make a couple of general points and a couple of specific points about this report. firstly, generally, i support the common position – it is a useful compromise – but i would not support going any further than that. this is useful as a framework directive but i would not like to see lots of further directives springing from it. we need to be very careful in applying the principles of subsidiarity, a view which is being widely expressed across the chamber. i am not sure that we would have any credibility whatsoever as a parliament or as a european union if we started to dictate to our citizens what hours they can or cannot sleep. this is a matter that should be determined for them at a local level. if an airport, for instance, is located in the centre of a city, then the limit values that should be acceptable there are completely different to those at an airport located out on a peninsula in a quiet rural area. why should not a particular community seek to set up an airport, for instance as a cargo hub, that can experience noise pollution in excess of what a large city should produce? this is a matter for local authorities and for national governments and should not be a matter for this parliament and for europe. i should like to ask those people who wanted to include military aircraft and military airfields within the scope of this directive, whether they are really saying, as europe is, at the moment, in a state of war, that our airforces cannot operate at night or with planes that are too noisy, that they cannot defend our freedoms against terrorist attacks if their aircraft are too noisy. i suggest that if that proposal is being made seriously, it would be laughed out of court across europe. i am in favour of legislation laying down noise limits for specific projects, but we really are going far too far in many aspects of the amendments proposed in this directive.
commission. – mr president, first of all i should say that we are not trying by any means to suggest that people across europe should go to bed at a certain time or laugh in certain places only, or to harmonise any of the different customs and cultural traditions in europe. the proposed directive on the table today, following on from our 1996 green paper, aims to develop a new noise policy to tackle noise which affects people, and not only noise from individual sources. this will be done by drawing up harmonised noise maps to assess the noise exposure situation across the community; informing the public about noise exposure and its effects; requiring authorities in member states to develop action plans to achieve the required noise levels; and providing the european institutions with information on environmental noise, in order to assess the situation and develop further action. there are 51 different ways to measure noise, but could we not agree on the means of measuring it within the community? that is the first step – actually drawing up these noise maps. with regard to this last topic, i understand the concerns expressed by some members who have tabled amendments making the case for proposals for daughter directives as of now to set new limit values for sources and environmental noise. however, the success of the innovative noise policy we wish to develop relies notably on the quality of the data we will be able to gather. at the moment, the lack of such information is obvious, notably due to the lack of harmonisation of the assessment of noise exposure within europe. the commission believes that it would be premature at this stage to come up with proposals setting new limit values for noise. we already have a raft of market access legislation which sets limit values for different kinds of road vehicles, for example. it will be simpler and quicker to tighten the noise standards in existing legislation than to introduce new daughter directives. we will consider what these standards need to be once we have the evidence from strategic noise maps and will, of course, report back to the council and parliament. for these reasons, we cannot accept the amendments introducing daughter directives and limit values, but we are willing to propose further actions as soon as possible, which is why we wholeheartedly accept amendments strengthening the timetable. the directive does not concern specific sources such as aircraft engines and hushkits. the commission has not yet had time to reflect on the icao decision last week, but we will of course come back as soon as we have had a chance to do so. moving on to the detail of the 36 amendments adopted by parliament's environment committee, we are able to accept 28 of them, in full, in principle and/or in part. we can accept amendment no 1, which alters the title, to make the proposal a community framework for the assessment and management of environmental noise. however, as i said earlier, we believe that it would be premature to set new limit values, and thus we cannot support amendments nos 2, 3, 6 and 33. as for the timetable for implementation of the proposed directive, we welcome amendments nos 10, 13, 17, 18, 19, 21, 23 and 25, which propose restoring the dates of the original commission proposal, and in line with these amendments we can also accept in principle amendments nos 15 and 16, which seek to reinstate tighter deadlines, although we would have more reservations on the deletion of the two-phase approach for roads and railways. in this respect, we cannot accept amendment no 20. several amendments also help clarify the text, and, furthermore, we accept amendments nos 4, 7, 8, 14, 27, 28 and 29. we can accept in principle amendment no 5, which introduces four important principles, though we would not wish other principles to be excluded. with regard to amendment no 9, which seeks to reinstate the definition of human health, we support the first part of this amendment, while the reference to the world health organisation seems superfluous at this stage. on the harmonisation of the common noise indicators, lden and lnight, amendment no 11 makes the case for the compulsory use of these indicators for acoustical planning and noise zoning, while amendment no 34 reintroduces the definition of an action plan being 'designed to reduce noise where a limit value in lden or lnight is exceeded'. within the council an agreement was reached to use common indicators only for the purpose of strategic noise mapping, while the need for further harmonisation of indicators was postponed for consideration in the review proposed in article 11. therefore, i am afraid we cannot support amendments nos 11 and 34. however, since the directive now limits itself to strategic noise mapping, it is logical to support the principle of amendment no 12. besides this, we also welcome amendment no 36, which seeks to reduce the flexibility and the definition of the lden noise indicator, thus making for more comparable results. on public information, amendment no 22 requires that the information to the public be published on the internet within two months. we welcome the principle of this amendment, but the dissemination of information to the public should not be limited to the internet. as for the review clause under article 11 of the proposal, amendment no 24 seeks to delete the reference to 'different climates and cultures'. owing to strong concerns expressed in the council by member states, we cannot support amendment no 24. in the annexes, we can support in part amendment no 26, which seeks to make compulsory the provision of financial information on action plans. of the three types of financial information concerned, we would support the provision of budget information being made compulsory, while the others are more difficult to obtain. finally, we support amendments nos 30, 31, 32 and 35 to annex vi, which partly restore the original provisions proposed by the commission on the technical specification of strategic noise maps. i thank the european parliament and the rapporteur, mr de roo, for the detailed consideration given to this proposal and the helpful amendments which have been contributed. they have undoubtedly strengthened the proposal and also improved its quality.
mr president, a rhetorical question often rhetorically asked is: which came first, the chicken or the egg? in the case of new clean air technology, it is usually the case that government must first lay the legislative egg from which is hatched the technology to give us cleaner cars or lorries. in the case of this report, however, the situation is reversed, because in the main the technology is available to clean up the small engines which, as mr lange says, can produce more pollution in one hour than a car travelling 150 km. in many cases cost is the only reason for which we do not have cleaner engines already. in fact, honda can produce overhead valve four-stroke engines that easily meet these requirements. however, there are some important exceptions to this general rule. i am pleased that mr lange has withdrawn his suggestion that the small-producer exemption should be set at 10 000 units per year – which would not have covered any european manufacturers – and supported the commission's position of 25 000, which covers 7 manufacturers. however, we have some particular problems with this piece of legislation, and in particular with chainsaws and the like. these are machines which have to be light because they are carried by people; they cannot be hot, to avoid burning the user; and they have to be multi-positional – in other words they have to work when upside down. for those particular uses, two-stroke technology is the only viable option. we remember seeing those trabants and wartburgs coming across east berlin; these types of two-stroke engines are dirtier but, in the case of chainsaws, there is no alternative. the solution put forward by the commission is to use a system of averaging and banking, whereby dirty engines can be set off against clean engines and clean technology can be saved up for the next year and used to produce some dirty engines the following year. i do not like this system. in many ways it is dishonest, because people will be buying engines which they think meet the regulations, when in fact they are dirtier. only the big manufacturers who produce a wide range of engines can benefit from this. this system should not be supported. however, we need protection for these particular applications and that is why i have tabled my amendment – no 29 – giving a detailed list of exemptions: strimmers, chainsaws, brush cutters, machines for drilling holes in the ice and so on. i am very disappointed that mr lange has not seen fit to support that amendment, because without the protection of this detailed list of exceptions, mr lange's amendment – no 30 – does not go far enough, relying only on some technical committee, some commission assessment of the alternatives. mr lange should think very carefully about my amendment, and then we would have a deal that both sides of this house could accept.
mr president, this legislation has often been referred to as the lawnmowers directive. the fact that meps are spending their time discussing lawnmowers will no doubt confirm the impression which too many of our constituents have about the value of our work. if so, they should think again. the blue smoke from generators, lawnmowers, pumps and so on tells its own story. the cumulative effect contributes significantly to air pollution. so, in contrast to the last debate where i argued strongly that we should emphasise the principle of subsidiarity, this is a matter which is clearly trans-boundary and for both environmental and single market reasons should be dealt with by this parliament. on the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy we all get used to industry representatives coming up to us and saying ‘don't do that, the time-scale is too short, the technology is not available’. so it has been a pleasure while this directive was passing through parliament to be lobbied by one company – honda, to which mr goodwill referred – which believes that the standards being proposed by the commission do not go far enough. i realise it has its own reasons for this position. it has made the investment. it can meet the standards and it wants a competitive advantage over those who have not done the same. but is that not what we want overall? is it not a good thing for manufacturers to be competing on the basis of setting the highest possible environmental standards? i am sorry the committee has not accepted some of the amendments i tabled at an earlier stage. i am sorry also that too many companies in my own country have failed to look to the future and want to continue producing dirty, polluting equipment instead of investing in the future and setting the highest standards so that they can compete properly across the world. here in europe we should be aiming to set these higher standards subject to the available technology. i agree with what mr goodwill said about chainsaws and the difficulty of reaching those standards insofar as that piece of equipment is concerned. but i also want to resist, as mr lange said, the commission's proposals for averaging and banking. so far as i am concerned it allows manufacturers to continue to produce engines which do not meet the highest air quality standards and perhaps to even put new ones on the market. after all, we are not saying that the changes have to be made now. a transition period is built into the proposal to give time for re-equipment. amendment no 18 suggests that some financial support and incentives might be given to manufacturers. i look forward to hearing the sound of my neighbour mowing her grass – and indeed my grass too, i hope – knowing that the air will be free from pollution and that the birds will not cough and splutter in the trees around my home.
mr president, i wish to express my concern about the environment committee's amendment, listed as no 2, which seeks to remove what seemed to be the rather sensible averaging and banking option. now i note that the committee believes itself to be tackling pollution from leisure machinery which, it claims, accounts for a considerable proportion of the output of ozone precursors, especially on saturday afternoons in the summer months. does the committee understand that a whole range of professional equipment is involved here? we have heard about chainsaws, but there are many other examples. chainsaws are vital for managing woodlands. manufacturers say that if this amendment goes through, they will no longer be able to manufacture these goods. the net effect of this, according to the practitioners, would be an adverse effect on the environment, and so i urge the house to reject the amendment. however, knowing how enthusiastically this house embraces all or any legislation, no matter how insane or restrictive, perhaps i will not be sorry if the amendment is actually accepted because, given the amount of damage it will do, it will at least show parliament and the european union to be the mad legislative machine that it really is. ordinary people have suspected this for many years. perhaps in this case you will prove it to them.
madam president, is not the real reason for this glossy brochure and this debate today the fact that the treaty of nice is dead? the irish people saw to that, and you know that if you ask them again they will reject it a second time. it is interesting to note that they were the only people who were asked whether or not they wanted the treaty. that is why we have european governance and why you are seeking to push through the institutional changes, choosing a different method. the only way that you will achieve the participation in this european project that you want is through consent. by that i do not mean the consent of a house like this, but of the ordinary voters in europe. let us have more referendums in all member states. that is the only way to achieve democratic legitimacy. the way to address the democratic deficit is to give people a chance to express their opinions.
madam president, i would like to move the debate on to ground which has not been much talked about and to the remarks mr prodi made in his introductory statement about the regional element. i would like to do so particularly from the standpoint of my own constituency, scotland, but not only from that point of view. it is interesting to note, when you reflect on scotland, that about 80% of the competences exercisable by the scottish parliament concern domains in which the european union has a shared competence. when we make laws here, the scottish parliament and government are bound by them and have to put them into effect; that is quite right and it is the same across other similar regions. but sometimes it can produce ridiculous results, for example when environmental laws are too detailed to allow sensible local discretion in adapting common principles to local situations. the water problems of the island of islay or the glen of strathspey are hardly comparable with those of the rhine basin. a one-size-fits-all approach to water law can have absurd results, for example in respect of the scotch malt whisky industry, despite its established environmental friendliness over 200 years. the white paper says, as did commissioner prodi this morning, that the commission will consult regional and local government early in the policy-formation process and will seek to legislate so that local knowledge is effectively deployed in the implementation process. that is quite right and very welcome, though it was a pity he only devoted one sentence in his opening speech to it. many of us had expected that the white paper would contain a far stronger statement, especially in relation to the so-called partner regions exercising their own constitutional powers of legislation. europe will fail to regain or retain the affections of the citizens of the union – and that includes the people in scotland and our counterparts in many similar lands such as catalonia, flanders, wales, galicia, the basque country – unless the regional and local governments with whom people there finally identify are fully respected partners in the governance of europe. we are the same size and population as many of the existing member states, the same as many of the adjoining states and we are bigger than quite a few of them. it is often said that big, important regions of large countries do better in the union than small member states. i doubt it and nothing in the white paper has yet persuaded me that is true.
mr prodi, your paper on european governance is an important milestone, but on a technical issue my colleague, mr dell'alba, pointed out to you in a previous debate that, while the word ‘governance’ may be very common in the english and french languages, in italian political culture it is to some extent opaque. if that is the case, it may well be that we have to get the message through in each of the eu languages. perhaps attention could be paid to those languages in which the word ‘gouvernance’, first used by sir john fortescue in england in the fifteenth century when the english political class spoke french, is less clearly understood than in english and french. we ought to look at that point. reading your paper, it struck me that in a sense the first stage of recovery in the building of europe is for the commission itself to recover its self-confidence and poise. i pay credit to you mr prodi, and to your colleagues mr patten, mr barnier and others, for having succeeded in restoring this poise after the resignation of your predecessors. however, as you know – and you drew attention to this in your speech – there is concern in parliament about giving respect to the institutional triangle. there are fears about your use of civil society, which we all know really means consulting lobby groups. the most effective lobby groups do their job, which is not to represent society at large – that is this elected parliament's duty – but to represent their own vested interest. so i am afraid the fact that you drew attention to this concern has not allayed our fears and we will continue to insist that it is we, the elected members of this house, who represent the interests of society at large and you should not set up groups meeting directly with the commission, evolving policy and then handing it down to us to rubber-stamp. that is not our understanding of parliamentary democracy. i am sorry that mr farage has left. he obviously does not believe in parliamentary democracy. he wants a referendum every five minutes. it is absurd that in my own country, once the prime minister, mr blair, summons up the courage to confront the chancellor, mr brown, we will be asked in a referendum to decide whether or not to join the single currency. can you imagine our financial and economic future being discussed in public houses up and down the country? this is a job that elected politicians should do. as regards your paper, the european parliament and the commission should be partners in the construction of europe, not rivals. if we remember the days of jacques delors, your predecessor, he had a clear programme, a vision: the 1992 single market. he set out a time frame and turned that vision into reality. we must do the same with enlargement and constitutional reform, widening and deepening. lastly, mr prodi, will you organise a public platform for the leaders of the candidate countries that will be joining the eu? i know you have already met the new polish leader, but the public at large needs to be able to see in practice that we have a vision of a fully complete, united europe and that you, parliament and the council are working together to achieve this. (applause)
mr president, i have three points. firstly, this paper is slightly more modest than its title suggests. when you first titillated us with the prospect of presenting this white paper over a year ago, we were all very excited at the idea of having some great constitutional blueprint. in fact, you have very wisely produced a paper on good administration rather than a blueprint on governance or constitutional government as a whole, and that pragmatic and focused approach has much to commend it. secondly, i very much welcome your announcement today that you wish to establish an interinstitutional working party. i have always felt it was a mistake to try to treat governance as if it were a piece of legislation which was first presented by the commission and then batted between the institutions. this is not normal legislation, but an intensely political debate that requires an intensely political and cooperative approach between the institutions. my final point is one that you touch upon quite politely in the white paper. i will be less polite: we can do as much as we like at european level – in strasbourg and brussels – to improve administration and governance and make our decisions more comprehensible, legitimate and understandable. however, as long as national political institutions and national political cultures remain frozen in the 19th-century mould and pretend that either the eu does not exist or is some far-off spaceship, we will never make great advances in this honourable enterprise of improving governance. governance can only be built brick by brick from the bottom, from the ground floor, from our nations and regions. that is where we should all start.
mr president, it is indeed a shame that mr farage is no longer with us. he obviously has learned nothing about public policy if he thinks that we can run the whole of europe on a series of referendums. this discussion is probably one of the most important that we will have before enlargement. it is neither as hallowed nor as sexy as an igc, but until we get the actual delivery mechanisms of democracy and public policy right, the boring, tedious administrative detail, then we do democracy an injustice. we have to reform our governmental processes. there are many proposals in the white paper that cause nobody any problems, but issues like co-regulation and the delivery of public policy by external agencies do cause problems. we cannot afford not to address these issues. our institutional overload, as we all know, is quite dramatic in the union and with enlargement it will get worse. we need to ensure, however, that when we reform those processes – whether it be issues concerning co-regulation or external agencies – we see democratic control as the key factor, democratic control in a democratic framework. this will not be a resource-free exercise. it will also require significant person power to deliver it, at least in the early stages. the commission has to face this. it will not be a cost-cutting exercise by any means. finally, if there is a criticism that has to be made of the commission, and i am glad it has realised the importance of this criticism, it is that its white paper did not address the role of parliament. now i realise that the commission might be sensitive about doing so, in case it brings the wrath of this house down on it. that represented a fundamental failure in the early discussions between the commission and parliament. so i am very pleased that this has now been rectified and we can move forward to produce the sort of governmental structure which we require.
mr president, i am very glad that you are being very tolerant on time this morning. it is a well-known saying that ‘if you don't know where you're going, then you won't get there’. first and foremost we need to be very clear in europe about what we are doing; our aim is not to create a single state of europe, but to have a union of sovereign states that are cooperating when and where necessary. unlike mr farage, i believe there are many occasions when it is important that we cooperate in europe. equally we all know that the none of the institutions are held in high regard. that is not because they are bad. it is because they are complex, remote and not understood. frankly, we will continue to face the same problem, whatever specific reforms we come up with, if they remain obscure, complex and unexplained. i say to my colleagues in this chamber that one thing the people of europe do not understand is why we oscillate between brussels and strasbourg. it is up to us to listen to some of the problems that people express to us. i was disappointed in president prodi's white paper. he virtually neglected the role of the ombudsman. after all, the ombudsman is in the front line of dealing with the complaints and concerns of citizens. i was also disappointed last month by the response of commissioner de palacio, whom i normally respect, who was quite dismissive about the code of good administrative behaviour. we must make sure that we have good administration. that means that we must have an enforceable code common to all of the institutions. the committee on petitions has asked the ombudsman to report to us on the problems that citizens are presenting to him. we want to listen to citizens. i extend an invitation to president prodi, if he really wants to understand what the citizens of europe are finding difficult with the european institutions, european rules and regulations, to give up one afternoon and come along to the petitions committee to listen to what citizens are saying. he would certainly have an afternoon's entertainment hearing what people really think. in brief, what i am saying is this: listen to people; listen to those who know what they are talking about; be clear about your objectives; and then explain yourselves in clear and simple language. (applause)
mr president, as the last speaker from my group and as coordinator of the group, it falls to me to try and summarise the positions that have been expressed. listening to the debate i feel that our group's views are very much the centre of gravity of parliament as a whole on this question. if i could try and summarise this in two sentences, it would be to say 'yes' to better information, consultation and more systematic consultation of non-governmental actors and so on, but 'no' to delegating decisions to a sort of cosy deal between the commission and industry. we would say 'yes' to delegating technical and implementing legislation, but only if there is an adequate procedure to bring things back if they go wrong. in other words, there is considerable sympathy in parliament for much of what the commission intends to achieve in its white paper but genuine concern about what might be the real effects of some of the proposals therein. let me take the example that has come up recently of the self-regulation on pedestrian safety, where the commission has made a deal with the automobile industry. this is a very good deal in many ways and a lot of what has been agreed is a good step forward for pedestrians' safety. but what if it were not very good? what if it contained some outrageous things that would not be acceptable to this parliament representing the citizens? we represent all the citizens of europe not just those who are organised in ngos. what if the automobile industry subsequently does not apply the deal, because it is not enshrined in legislation? what can we do to remedy the situation if one or the other manufacturer does not respect the deal? that is the sort of concern that is being expressed in this parliament. i welcome the commitment of the commission only to take this forward once parliament has given its view and to explore these issues further in an inter-institutional working party. that is a very welcome development. i am very glad you gave that undertaking today and i look forward to taking this matter further. (applause)
counsel. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure and a great honour for me to present to you, as president of the justice and home affairs council, the state of play in the fields of asylum and immigration, and also to inform you of the initiatives planned by the presidency in the coming weeks. the opportunity to speak today is all the more appropriate as your parliament will be voting on two reports of very high quality and particularly important for the further work of the justice and home affairs council, namely mr pirker's report on the commission communication on a community policy on immigration and mr evans' report on the commission communication on a common asylum procedure and a uniform status throughout the union for persons granted asylum. when i presented the presidency's programme to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i mentioned the priority that our presidency attaches to these two areas, asylum and immigration, for a number of reasons. first of all, i see, as do my european colleagues, that there is a genuine expectation on the part of the citizens, a legitimate expectation to which it is our duty as politicians to provide, of course, urgent but also, i believe, reassuring answers. this implies a controlled management of migration flows, also assuming the need to combat abuses of the asylum procedure. it must be admitted that there is great concern when one sees the evolution of the figures throughout europe. secondly, the tampere evaluation, which will be carried out at the end of our presidency, must enable us to note the various advances in the field of justice and home affairs, but also to propose measures to make up any delays as quickly as possible, and we must admit that there are some. in order to avoid the regrettable effects of these delays, we believe that the political momentum will have to be revived at the laeken summit. this requires the resolution of a number of issues which, under the guise of technical difficulties, are in fact the subject of political disputes. i should also like to thank commissioner vitorino, who always makes very intelligent proposals, but who also shows a great deal of openness in his desire to move things forward, and who accepts the challenge of advancing ideas at european level. in this dual perspective, the belgian presidency has sought to provide the political impetus needed for the launching of a substantive debate in areas such as the establishment of a common and balanced immigration policy and the establishment of a european asylum system. in other words, we are working with our colleagues, in the context of this presidency, to enable the council of ministers to play its role as the architect of european integration once again and thus to focus on a number of political arbitrations. its legislative action must be reflected in visible operational activity and practical cooperation between law enforcement and immigration services. i must say that i am convinced that a common european approach based on solidarity is the only appropriate approach. it must be admitted that for a long time many member states believed that they could tackle this problem on their own. it must be admitted that the results have not been as good as expected. the asylum first. the right of asylum is, of course, a priority for all our countries. i believe that is the dignity of europe. we remain committed to the full implementation of the geneva convention and its reaffirmation. and it seems to me that in this respect our countries have nothing to be ashamed of. our efforts to meet our international commitments cannot be questioned or questioned. but we all also see that a large number of people use this procedure as a pretext to enter the territory of our states for reasons other than those provided for by the geneva convention. i therefore think that we should consider the future of the work in the light of these two observations.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, today's debate is coming to a crucial moment. we are two weeks away from the european conference on migration, which is being organized by the belgian presidency, and two months away from the european council in laeken, which is supposed to review the tampere agenda at the mid-term. both should be essential steps towards the definition of common immigration and asylum policies. the european parliament, i am sure, will express clear and strong priorities in due time by adopting the two resolutions under consideration today, the quality and balance of which must be emphasized - and i take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteurs, mr pirker and mr evans. since the tragedy of 11 september, the european union has been faced with a new political agenda in the fields of justice and home affairs. the commission has so far been able to deal with this problem in a remarkable way, thanks in particular to the determination of the belgian presidency. the european council of 21 september sent us a very clear message. the measures needed to strengthen the internal security of our member states and their nationals must be taken as a matter of urgency, while giving priority to the fight against terrorism. but at the same time, the european council of 21 september stressed that the other dimensions of the objective of maintaining and developing an area of freedom, security and justice, as laid down in the treaty of amsterdam, should also be pursued without delay. i am glad that the european council has stressed the need to strike a political balance between, on the one hand, strengthening police and judicial cooperation measures in the fight against crime and terrorism and, on the other hand, creating an area of freedom, security and justice, that is to say, protecting the fundamental rights of citizens. i have always stressed in the debates here in the european parliament, but also with the council, that we need common immigration and asylum policies more than ever. the relevance of both the amsterdam treaty and the tampere conclusions has been repeatedly reaffirmed. i am convinced that citizens have a real expectation, indeed a demand, for the addition of european value to national policies whose limitations are becoming increasingly clear, whether in the field of security policies or in the field of the protection of freedoms. to achieve this objective, to define what european added value can be added to national policies, i believe we must take into account both the security imperatives and the respect for the values which are the common identity values of our european union, including freedom of movement as guaranteed by the schengen agreements. the council asked the commission to assess its proposals on asylum and immigration in the light of the terrorist events in the united states of america. we have already started this task. the political will reaffirmed by both the european council and the justice and home affairs council in these matters should give us hope. as the minister has just pointed out, it is true that the delays and difficulties encountered on certain dossiers could have raised serious doubts about our ability to take substantive decisions within the very precise deadlines set by the commission's timetable. this renewed dynamism must benefit all areas of cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs, provided that the member states recognize that it is impossible to have european legislation which is the exact copy of fifteen national laws and that each must take a step towards a common solution from which all benefit. in the light of today's debate, i see a broad convergence of views between the commission and parliament, as reflected in the two excellent reports by mr pirker and mr evans. whether it is the principles which should form the basis of the common european asylum system or the components of a coherent approach to the migration phenomenon, we can follow the main points of your recommendations without difficulty. in some cases we have even preceded them and various requests have already been met in our proposals on the legal status of longterm residents and on admission for employment purposes, or in our communication of last july extending that of november 2000 and giving concrete form to certain guidelines. in other cases we are preparing to follow up, for example in communications which i intend to propose to the commission for adoption in the coming months, one on the fight against illegal immigration and the other on return policies and external border control. i also share your concern about the need to develop concrete proposals for a genuine partnership between the union and the countries of origin and transit. this work was initiated by the creation of the high level group, whose work will be extended by the implementation of a new budgetary instrument strongly supported by the european parliament. it may still be felt that this work and the implementation of the action plans adopted by the council are not bearing sufficient fruit. i therefore agree that, in general, the importance of migration should be better taken into account in the formulation of the european union's external policy. to a certain extent, we must admit that we are a bit hostage to the division between the second and third pillars, which is not justified, because a thorough reflection underlines the very close links between development policy and the migration policy of the european union. i should also stress that there will be no real european immigration and asylum policy if, beyond a legislative framework, national policies converge in practice towards common objectives. this is the aim which the commission intends to pursue by establishing an open coordination policy, similar to the method already used, and with success, for example, in the field of employment. i believe that such an open method of coordination offers the advantages of flexibility and transparency, respect for subsidiarity, and is a powerful incentive for a, i would even say spontaneous, approximation of national legislation and practice, as well as a good indicator of the areas in which community action is really indispensable. it presupposes that the member states agree within the council on common guidelines which are proposed to them by the commission after extensive consultation. they will then have to translate them internally, using the national legislative and administrative means at their disposal. member states will be invited to prepare national reports in which they will have to take stock of the progress made in implementing these common guidelines each year. the commission's synthesis of these reports should make it possible to identify, on a case-by-case basis, the weak points in this necessary convergence and, where necessary, to refine and complete the common guidelines. in july we suggested a first set of guidelines on the management of migration flows, the admission of economic migrants, partnership with third countries and the integration of third country nationals into our societies. this approach will be completed in the area of asylum in the first report on the follow-up to our communication of november 2000, which will be sent to you in the coming months. the commission hopes that these new guidelines will be adopted by the council and the european council so that their implementation can begin without delay and that a first full exercise can be conducted within the next year. in conclusion, i would like to return to a few fundamental points which, more than ever, need to be recalled in the present context. firstly, asylum is a right guaranteed and regulated by international instruments, and confirmed by the european charter of fundamental rights. no one will deny that it can be abused. and it is up to us as policy-makers to address this, not by making those who really need international protection even more vulnerable, but more certainly by bringing together and making more effective the procedures and criteria applied at national level. as such, the introduction in the medium term of the one-stop-shop system, which you support in your resolution, would, in my view, be an undeniable step forward. in the meantime, an effort to improve the quality of first instance decisions, as advocated by our proposal on asylum procedures, seems indispensable. secondly, immigration is a phenomenon that cannot be denied. it would be extremely regrettable if some people took advantage of the current emotion to claim to be back with a policy of slogans. we can't solve the immigration problem with slogans. above all, we must avoid misidentifications which are the hound dog of racist and xenophobic sentiments. what we have is a genuine policy for managing migration flows at both national and european level. and the terms of reference seem obvious to me. the channels of legal immigration must be clearly defined and the possibilities must be assessed, beyond the accidents and uncertainties of the economic situation, on the basis of a realistic estimate of the structural needs and reception capacities of our societies. a dialogue with the countries of origin is necessary and it is important to take account of the different types of immigration we face. the first is sustainable immigration, which is expected to remain in the host societies for a long time, while the second, increasingly important, is cyclical migration, which requires - and should be encouraged - a stronger link with the region of origin. finally, the credibility of an active immigration policy must be strengthened by an effective fight against illegal immigration and the trafficking in human beings associated with it. a complement to the major community instruments applicable in the fight against exclusion, for example the specific problem of the integration of immigrants, needs to be thoroughly reviewed. cultural pluralism is now becoming a feature of our societies, especially in urban areas, and this raises very important challenges. it can be a source of genuine dynamism if it is based on genuine mutual tolerance. but it can also be a source of confrontation and social division. this reciprocal tolerance and respect will be one of the keys to social balance and cultural progress in our european societies. i therefore thank the european parliament for having contributed to enriching this debate, which i sincerely hope will be a positive one. under the impetus of the belgian presidency, with the personal commitment of mr antoine duquesne, whom i thank and whose efforts to reach compromise solutions in the true european spirit i can witness, i hope that laeken will be a major step forward in the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice. this is not a dream, it is a reality which is increasingly being demanded by our citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
rapporteur. – mr president, as we all know, the last few weeks have been very difficult and we will continue to live in challenging times for many months and years ahead. therefore, this is a very important debate, and i am delighted that not just the commissioner but the president-in-office, mr duquesne, are here in person, recognising the importance of this issue. as mr duquesne implied in his contribution, if the recent happenings have shown us anything, it is that we cannot turn a blind eye to events around the world and hope that they will go away. the problems of people wanting asylum, the situation and the plight of the people of poor and troubled countries all over the world are our concerns and they manifest themselves on our doorsteps, on our shores and in our parliaments if we do not address them. at one level these problems manifest themselves as debates in this and other parliamentary assemblies. at the worst level we find bodies in lorries at dover, on the beaches of spain and other countries. this is the plight of desperate people seeking desperate measures to start a new life. but these people are not resorting to this sort of action lightly; they are escaping from terror, war, torture, rape, vile regimes posing as governments and, of course, in some cases, poverty. so there can be no more appropriate time for countries to be working together to confront these humanitarian challenges. i congratulate the eu heads of government for having brought asylum into the community competence and setting a progressive agenda at tampere. i congratulate the commission on these proposals, which have started the debate on how a common asylum policy should be shaped. in my report before parliament today i am asking for a common and wider interpretation of the geneva convention of 1951, a clearer definition of who should be recognised as a refugee and one that is consistent across all 15 countries. let us also harmonise the treatment asylum seekers receive; let us establish europe-wide common standards and then make sure that we enforce them. if we adopt this report we can start to establish minimum basic rights, as the minister and the commissioner have said, for refugees, for access to welfare, housing, education, health care – things that we in the privileged world take for granted. in recent years it sometimes seemed that eu countries were competing to become the least attractive to potential asylum seekers. common, europe-wide standards will inevitably create a more balanced distribution of asylum claims throughout the eu. that must help my city, london, and all the major cities of europe. it must also stop countries being able to lower their standards, which will be good for asylum seekers, who can be more confident of a fair hearing. that is something of which we should be proud and not ashamed. in addition and crucially, europe must collectively do far more to address the root causes that lead to people seeking asylum and becoming refugees. governments must make concerted efforts to help create peace in the troubled parts of the world, however difficult, and to increase aid to developing countries – strong measures that in time will work towards countering the pressures that force people to migrate. it is for the same reasons that we must press ahead with the enlargement of the european union. as commissioner verheugen said recently, we cannot ask ourselves the question: can we afford enlargement of the european union? instead we should put the question: can we afford not to enlarge the european union? in committee, many centre-right and right-wing members voted against my report in whole or in part. i challenge those members who are sitting opposite today, not to just give a prepared speech or ignore what i am saying now but to tell us why they are opposing certain parts of it and why they want to diminish the rights of a fair appeal, which is amendments nos 6 and 8 by mr schmitt. how will this make the system better? to those – perhaps the british conservatives – who will vote against this report in its entirety, if they were here i would ask them to explain to parliament how we can address the current asylum situation in europe without europe-wide policies. they must recognise that this is a global issue and one that cannot be dealt with on an individual basis in each country. i sympathise with amendments nos 11 and 12 by the green group, but i cannot support them. we could support them in another report dealing with those escaping from hunger or environmental disasters. however, this is a compassionate report, one with which we can be satisfied but not complacent. in conclusion, i should like to thank my colleagues from my own and other groups for their help and support for this report and for their cooperation. i thank my own group staff for their hard work and i pay tribute to the ngos that have contributed valuable ideas. i commend the report to parliament. (applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, as the vienna monitoring centre showed last year, there is a need for a progressive policy and leadership in both areas under debate today. i welcome the recognition that a restrictive approach to immigration has not worked and is counter-productive. we have only to look at the increase in trafficking and the difficulty in recruiting skilled professionals to demonstrate this. it is obvious that there is work available in the european union for people from third countries. in many of our countries they are crucial to agricultural production and many major companies employ third-country nationals in senior executive posts. yet there is still an attitude around that we are doing such people a favour by allowing them to enter the eu to support our economy and our social security system. let us be honest: we want them to help maintain our standard of living. if we get it right, it should be a mutual benefit. as part of that, we need to ensure equal treatment for third-country nationals, not least in the workplace. the implementation of the article 13 directives on anti-discrimination is also crucial. why work here, if you then face racism and xenophobia? business tells us that recruitment needs to be made easier and more flexible at all skill levels. this calls into question work permits attached to a particular job and company. unfortunately, the lead committee did not take this on board. recruitment is also hampered by restrictions on family reunion, business tells us. my political group has tabled amendments relating to that human factor. the working rights of partners also need to be improved. we have also to recognise the fact that some migrants will wish to stay and settle. this is important in terms of continuity and stability for individuals, society and business. a constant turnover is problematic on many levels and we have to remember that we are human beings, not cogs in an economic wheel.
mr president, my group strongly supports the report by mr evans and welcomes its call for a high-quality common asylum policy. it is a curious feature of the construction of europe that more opportunities for cross-border cooperation have been taken by commerce and criminals than by civil servants, and it is about time our national public administrations made a real effort to get out of their bunkers. the situation at sangatte, near calais, has featured often on television screens in my home country in recent months. the uk can reflect on why so many people wish to come to our country and especially to my city, london. i like to think, at least in part, that this is a compliment to our free and diverse society, but we cannot just have an open door, and maybe the french authorities need to reflect on whether their system could be improved. there must be an equal balance of effort and sharing of responsibility to prevent both forum shopping by asylum seekers and 'pass the parcel' by member states. we also need consistency. it is illogical to be dismissive about people fleeing iraq or afghanistan, implying that they are undeserving scroungers, when by common agreement the regimes of those countries are deemed brutal and depressive, and even deserving of military attack. even if not everyone from such countries can be judged refugees under the strict geneva convention criteria, but only as escaping mere misery, there is no call to demonise them. we must also be consistent about our attitude to women. if we think, as we do, that women's human rights in afghanistan are grossly denied, we must take account of that in deciding asylum claims. finally, we must not weaken or lower the standards of our asylum systems under the guise of fighting terrorism, as the british home secretary is threatening to do. there are adequate powers to detain and deport if security is threatened. speedy decisions are those based on high-quality procedures and efficiency such as that offered by the functioning immigration service computers which the uk lacks – not on removing appeal rights for all applicants.
mr president, i would ask members to ponder one question: is it viable in today's world for all matters of asylum policy to be decided within the parameters of the geneva convention? the geneva convention drafted in 1951 was conceived as a temporary measure. it was negotiated in a very different world – a world still haunted by the shameful failure of western countries to offer sanctuary to the victims of european fascism. it was designed first and foremost to ensure that refugees from communist tyranny would have access to safe havens. but the world has moved on. mass air travel has facilitated unprecedented migratory flows. the great majority of those seeking better lives in new countries are actuated by understandable – indeed laudable – economic motives. but the terms of the 1951 convention, and specifically the requirement to assess all claims individually, even if the applicant is manifestly coming from a safe country, encourage economic migrants to seek entry as refugees. this clogs the system to the disbenefit of those genuinely fleeing from injustice and wrong. i support, as mr pirker's report does, a degree of controlled primary immigration. all countries can benefit from the energy and enterprise of people who are prepared to cross whole continents in search of a better future. for such a policy to gain public consent it must be fair and transparent and it must be open to account. it cannot be right for the judiciaries of our members states, by applying a peculiar interpretation of the 1951 convention, to operate an immigration policy beyond the control of elected politicians. if we want to manage a sustainable policy of legal immigration and, at the same time, protect the rights of those most in need of sanctuary, we must take back control of our asylum laws from the judges. far from enlarging the scope of the geneva convention, as mr evans suggests, we should scrap this outmoded accord and replace it with something more suited to the modern world.
rapporteur. – mr president, 11 september showed us that the world we live in is very insecure. we discovered that the world's security, stability and economy are much more fragile than we previously believed. wherever we look – whether at the fight against terrorism, the horrors of the balkans, the nightmare of a small town in switzerland, the virtual anarchy in parts of africa – one common theme emerges everywhere: the huge number of weapons which are freely available. that is one of the main causes of instability in the world, and we must act before the tidal wave of weaponry overwhelms us all. the code of conduct on arms exports was a significant development in controlling this trade. it is clear from the second annual report that there is rapidly growing cooperation between member states, both in terms of implementing the code and of achieving greater mutual understanding of the interpretation of the code. it is also clear that arms export policy in relation to security is becoming more closely aligned. there is much greater transparency in arms controls policies. most eu states, except for austria, greece and luxembourg, now produce their own annual reports, albeit with a huge variance in the quality of information provided. it is worth noting that the ngos' safer world holds up the uk's annual report, first introduced by the then foreign secretary, robin cook, as an example for other countries. the code's influence goes beyond the eu: all the accession countries, the eea, efta states, canada and turkey now subscribe to the code's principles. member states are also seeking to apply those principles in wider international fora. it would be a mistake to underestimate the importance of what has been achieved or the considerable mindshift that is taking place among member states in this field. nonetheless, there are areas where the code needs to be strengthened. the principles of the code will be constantly undermined if action is not taken to control and license arms brokers. it is beyond belief that in many countries you need a licence to own a shotgun but not to trade in weapons of any type. some arms brokers are legitimate businesses; many, however, are little more than merchants of death. action in this field must be an absolute priority. similarly, controlling the activities of eu armaments companies will inevitably be compromised by the uncontrolled licensing of production outside the eu. we further need a more harmonised system of end-use data provision, certification and enforcement. controls of official exports are important, but the illegal trade in arms is our biggest problem. i welcome the work of member states towards a un conference on the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons, reminding parliament that the definition includes things like shoulder-carried, anti-aircraft missiles. i very much regret the attitude of the usa to that conference and the influence of its gun lobby. we can only hope that recent events will cause the usa to reflect on the need for global partnerships to remove the causes of insecurity. we must have a global crackdown on this illegal trade. greater transparency is the guardian of our security in this field. despite the rapid advances made, i would like to see all countries producing publicly available annual export reports in a commonly agreed format. the council's annual report ought to be more detailed, as i have set out in my report. we would naturally encourage greater scrutiny of arms policies by member state parliaments. i was delighted that last year member states agreed a common list of military equipment to which the code applies. we now need a common list of non-military security and police equipment, and i am happy to accept the amendments on that subject. the list, however, has to be meaningful and provide the basis of effective action in this field and not be a statement of general intent. we will not win the war on terrorism – which we are all talking about at the moment – unless we control arms, the tools of this deadly trade. that is the challenge confronting us now and it is even more important today than it was this time last year when we debated the first annual report.
mr president, those who declare that they are dedicated to fighting terrorism need to cleanse themselves of all hypocrisy and must condemn those who carry out the worst acts of bloodletting under the guise of freedom fighters. in dublin this weekend, gerry adams boasted that the ira campaign of atrocities were the acts of freedom fighters and not the acts of terrorists. no wonder the wall street journal the other day carried an article with adams and bin laden linked together. actions, not words alone, can cleanse the hands of those nations in europe which have both armed and furthered the aims of terrorists and have then refused to extradite those criminals for proper trial.
madam president, commissioner patten correctly said that we have no quarrel with islam. i say that we have a quarrel with those who abuse islam and who turn the principles of islam into weapons against the innocent. in the same way, we have no quarrel with the afghan people. our quarrel is with bin laden who shelters in afghanistan and with the taliban, they seem to be almost one and the same, and we pity the situation of the afghan people. they are already one of the poorest nations upon earth. two million afghan refugees are sheltering in the islamic republic of iran and they have been for some years now. it is sad to see how little international help has been given to those refugees or to their hosts, the iranian government. these refugees fled acute starvation and utter brutality in afghanistan to find a haven in iran and there are huge numbers of new refugees now on the move. the psychological terror that our new alliance has properly caused against terrorism in the region is causing the new flight of so many new millions of refugees. we must ask ourselves, how we can save lives? we have always supported ngos. we have perhaps given less interinstitutional support. i plead here to the commission to look closely at how best to involve our work with that of the united nations, particularly unhcr and the world health organization, for only the un, can command the volumes of support that are needed in such a situation, in terms of food, clothing, shelter and the provision of basic needs. i ask the commission to assist the refugees who have already fled and are in situ elsewhere. may i also include the 3.5 million iraqi refugees in the region. we must do all we can to help.
madam president, we are facing a war against terrorism that all freedom-loving people must embrace. as you know, i was born in a country that understands terrorism, with 65 000 dead – please remember that the ltt suicide bombers in sri lanka are not muslims – but the world has so far turned a blind eye on twenty-three years of terrorism. the tragedy of 11 september has finally focused the attention of those that love democracy and freedom on the cancer that hides within. the cancer of terrorism. a cancer that is fed, not by religion, but by greed, hate, envy and ignorance. in afghanistan, the 1963 constitution as promulgated by king zahir shah is an exemplary document. i salute my colleague, edward mcmillan-scott, for taking the initiative to lead a delegation to rome to initiate a coalition between the king and the northern alliance, which i am happy to say has now been signed, as general morillon has just mentioned. i want to congratulate general morillon on inviting shah masood here, so that in april we had a chance to meet him. the 1963 constitution states that liberty is a natural right of each human being – this right has no limitations except the liberty of others, but freedom of thought and expression is invaluable – that every afghan has a right to print and publish ideas, that education is a right of every afghan and shall be provided, free of charge, by the state, and that work is a right of every afghan who has the capability to do it. what a far cry this is from the tragedy existing in afghanistan today, where women are beaten, denied education, kept at home as slaves and with one in eight dying in childbirth. it is a state run by ignorance using the stick of religion, of which they know little, to cower and terrorise their own people. the war against terrorism is a war to free the people of afghanistan from the twenty-eight years of slavery. i salute president bush and the british prime minister for their determination – shoulder-to-shoulder with a democratic party and ian duncan smith, the leader of the conservative party who was here in parliament today – to defeat and eradicate international terrorism. but this must not be a purely anglo-saxon affair. if the eu and this house are to be anything at all, they must have an involvement in ensuring this most basic of human activities; the right to live without being terrorised, the freedom to live without the daily sudden threat of death. we should not think that we in europe are not targets. we already know of plans to attack genoa, paris and elsewhere. when will we learn that is our war too?
madam president, afghanistan must be the ultimate example of a tragic and failed state and yet, in spite of this, the will exists for it to remain a unitary state across the ethnic divide. it has now suffered 28 years of communist dictatorship, followed by fanatic islamic theocracy, turning it into a pariah state as the taliban harbours terrorists and executes thousands. there are over 2 million refugees outside the country and some 5 million internally displaced persons, many of whom may flee if hostilities break out between the us and its allies and afghanistan itself. the world food programme is hampered by difficult terrain, destroyed infrastructure and taliban policies which prevent female participation, and which have led to the arbitrary arrest of aid workers on charges of religious proselytising and a ban on communications with the outside world, so essential to an international aid programme. in spite of this, some 218 tonnes of food got through to kabul last week to avert a crisis. it is clear that the west must now think of what can be done post-taliban to bring permanent stability to the country. last week, with two of my fellow meps, i was privileged to meet in rome, the former king of afghanistan, who has lived in the european union for much of his life. we were the first western elected politicians to visit the royal household since the crisis. he demonstrated a supreme sense of patriotism and duty to his estranged country, and went as far as to say that he would serve afghanistan in any capacity his people chose through their assembled tribal council, or loya jirga, which he has been working on for the last two years. he confirmed that he has now received key support from the opposition united front/northern alliance forces and will facilitate an internal settlement appropriate to his country. he is the only acceptable afghan figure who can unite all the warring factions and demonstrated the ability, when he ruled his country between 1933 and 1973, to rule constitutionally with tolerance and moderation, even using the english model of sport as a way to unite the disparate ethnic groups. it was clear to me that zahir shah, in spite of his advanced age, was both cogent and fit enough to do the job, after conducting a lengthy one-and-a-half-hour interview with myself and my colleagues. he has also wisely distanced himself from the restoration of the monarchy as an issue, leaving this to his people to decide. i urge this house to support the king's mission in this tricky area.
madam president, i condemn without reservation terrorism and murder. i agree with my colleagues that there is no reason for it and no-one has a right to carry out such acts. terrorists choose violence rather than the ballot box, inflicting death and pain on innocent civilians, justifying their actions by flying the banner of religion, race or political sovereignty. islam, like other great world religions, such as judaism and christianity, is a way of life for over one thousand million people in this world. these millions of muslims, from indonesia to nigeria, from central asia to the leafy suburbs of california, knew nothing about osama bin laden before 11 september. for these millions and for islam there is no place for terrorists like him or any others, whoever they are and wherever they come from. these terrorists have no authority to act on behalf of any people, race or religion. therefore, we must fight terrorism and act against terrorists, not innocent civilians who pursue their lives peacefully and who should have the freedom to believe in a religion of their choice. human life is precious and the death of innocent civilians, wherever it occurs, is simply not acceptable. reason without passion is sterile, passion without reason is heat. let us be firm and decisive. let us target terrorism: let us remove the causes that conceive, feed and sustain terrorism.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission's position on this matter, mr president, is in full agreement with that of the council and, as far as i can see, with that of the european parliament. the lithuanian parliament adopted a national energy strategy in 1999. in this context, it decided that unit 1 of the ignalina nuclear power plant will be decommissioned before 2005 and that the final decision on the date of decommissioning of unit 2 will be taken in the context of the review of the national energy strategy in 2004. the commission had stated at the time that it understood that the closure of block 2 had to be completed by 2009. this follows from the logic of the matter: if 2005 is the latest date for the decommissioning of unit 1, then it follows from the expected lifetime of the two power plant units that 2009 should be the latest date for the decommissioning of unit 2. as regards block 1, the commission has taken note that lithuania has initiated extensive preparations for the decommissioning and decommissioning. i assume that the shutdown actually occurs before 2005. as regards block 2, the commission has stated - as i have already said - that the closure should be carried out by 2009 at the latest. furthermore, the commission and the member states consider that the timetable for the decision on the date of the closure should be compatible with the timetable for lithuania's accession to the european union. i have spoken at length about this with the new lithuanian government in vilnius just a few days ago - it was indeed the main subject of the talks in vilnius - and i have the impression that the lithuanian government and the lithuanian parliament have understood the message well, namely that they must now consider how the timetable for the decisions on ignalina block 2 must be revised in the light of their own timetable for accession to the european union. i would like to take this opportunity to point out that the commission does not consider that any compromise is possible, particularly with regard to ignalina. ignalina is a chernobyl type nuclear power plant which, according to the general opinion of experts, cannot be retrofitted and brought up to acceptable safety standards. we are firmly convinced that this chernobyl-type nuclear power station represents a real danger to mankind and we will not therefore be able to shy away from this demand.
i thank the commissioner for his answer. i especially liked what he said about there being no room for compromises. is the eu position absolutely fixed, with no likelihood of it being altered in the near future? i should also like to raise the point about international funding for decommissioning. is that to come from the commission's own budget? what happens if there is insufficient money for that decommissioning?
mr president, at the heart of my political group's approach to the durban conference is a renewed determination to tackle racism and to discover what was positive about this conference. i say renewed because racism in its many forms has reared its head again, with the tragic events in new york and washington. we have now a danger that a renewed wave of islamophobia and anti-semitism will come if we do not tackle racism and its root causes. that illustrated the tragedy of this conference, because i felt i attended two conferences. one was a historic conference where delegations, like our own european union delegation, were determined to register that racism is a major human rights issue. we were determined to define for the first time racism in its many international forms, whether caste, a contemporary slavery, or whether discrimination against minorities within our own european union and indeed the candidate countries. we were determined to do something about racism, to show that with article 13 we in the european union had something to say to the rest of the world about how we were approaching our own problems. yet there was a second conference that i attended, full of confusion, of individual national agendas, a determination not to define racism in different countries because of an embarrassment as to what racism represented in those countries. the confusion arose over the much misunderstood issue of reparations, and indeed the very destructive issue of zionism and the problems in the middle east, overshadowed our conference. we have to be determined that the first conference, with the ideals we as a delegation defined for it, are renewed in this house today. that requires a united front. it requires us not to just say that durban was chaotic, therefore we will leave it that way for history. instead, we as a european union united, the commission, the belgian presidency – which did an excellent job – those who attended the conference and all of us within this house who want to tackle racism must unite to go back to the original agenda. that original agenda is one which may embarrass some individual countries, but the action programme is now there. it is there for us to exploit and it is there for us to do something about. the issue is not whether this is a failure or not, it is about whether we can now make it a success by renewed determination within this house to get back to the action programme and make progress.
i agree with the president-in-office and the commissioner that the conference can be described as a qualified success. it did get a bad press – in some respects deservedly – but those who say an international conference on racism was not worth holding are wrong. for the first time in 25 years of trying, international standards were set on the human rights of those vulnerable to racial discrimination. that is something to celebrate. we have a basis on which to build in order to tackle one of the great threats to freedom, justice and security in the world, including europe. admittedly, however, the conference did start badly. firstly, there was the ngo forum. although many of the forum sessions were very worthwhile and indeed inspiring, the ngo voice was hijacked by the proponents of reparations for slavery and those pursuing the line that zionism is racism. these themes also dominated or sought to hijack the intergovernmental conference. there was gross anti-semitic abuse with, for example, cartoons circulating that could have figured in julius streicher's publications from the 1930s. the document produced by the ngo forum was so bad that the secretary-general, mary robinson, was unable to recommend it to the governments. some ngos, including amnesty international, had to disassociate themselves from it. this was a great shame, because so many people had travelled to durban with the serious intent to tell the world of real daily suffering. i particularly remember a woman talking about the problems of internal migrants in china. there were also individuals from many groups who suffer individual persecution such as roma and dalits, sometimes known as untouchables. admittedly there was a degree of cynical hypocrisy shown by some states in hiding behind the demonisation of israel and america, including some african countries with appalling records of ethnic discrimination or human rights violations, and arab countries unwilling to come clean about their own role in the slave trade. this lack of honesty detracted from the conference. opinions can differ about whether the us and israel did the right thing in staying away. one can say that the position of israel, at least, was impossible. but certainly the absence of the us pushed the european union into the front line. one can ask if the eu was fully prepared for that. but, admirably led by mr michel, as has been said, it rose to the challenge. i have to give mr michel particular credit, even if he is my liberal political colleague. he came for two days and stayed for a week. he displayed great personal commitment to ensure that the european union spoke with one voice and a determination – even if sometimes a grim determination – to reach agreement. that success was realised. on the middle east the language agreed was, on the whole, balanced. i also believe personally that the language on slavery struck the right tone in speaking of it now as being a crime against humanity. clearly reparations were not the right means of redress to talk about. the irony of the situation would be that african americans would seek to claim, not africans, who were not subject to slave trading. finally, one of my disappointments at durban was that with the spotlight on international diplomacy rather than domestic records, the european union struggled to find the space to highlight its own growing and increasingly solid record in tackling racism. it is a pity that the eu as such is not represented in the un system, so that the commission and parliament are only observers, although the president-in-office did a very good job. clearly it was a pity that the commissioner was prevented from attending for family reasons. we have to find a way of strengthening the ability of all the european institutions to carry on taking a leading role in international human rights and anti-discrimination work.
rapporteur. – madam president, i welcome everybody here again tonight. i see a good number of familiar faces. i wish to pay tribute to my shadow rapporteur, mr harbour, who again is attending a late-night sitting with me. we probably spend more nights together than we do with our respective wives. i should also like to pay tribute to a number of people who have worked on this report, not just within the committee on legal affairs and the internal market but also within the commission and the council. it was not a difficult conciliation but it was successful and i was very pleased at the outcome. i should also like to give the thanks of probably about a third of the population of the european union to parliament, for i am anticipating that the vote tomorrow will go the right way. there are something like 35 million registered disabled people within the european union; we have 120 million elderly people. the two groups are obviously not mutually exclusive, but they make up about a third of the population of the european union. the outcome of tomorrow's vote will very largely decide what their quality of life in the future will be. for years now people with disabilities have not been able to get around the towns and cities of the european union as they should; they have been trapped for too long in their own houses. if this directive is adopted tomorrow, it will open up that door. it will be one small step towards freeing a lot of people who, as i said earlier, have been trapped. i would like to convey their thanks to parliament. i realise that some of my colleagues on the right of this house have had difficulties with this directive, mainly because of its technical nature. i fully understand and appreciate that. however, i would ask them at this late stage to consider what we are doing, because if this directive is adopted tomorrow, it is something that everybody in parliament could be proud of, because we would be improving the lives of the citizens of the european union. for once we would be making a difference. too often we stand up in this chamber and talk about various great plans, schemes and motions, etc. and they do not impact on people's lives. here is a small thing that does impact on the lives of the european citizen and it is something we should all be proud of. i understand my colleagues on the right will be abstaining tomorrow. that is unfortunate but it is, at least, an improvement on voting against in the second reading. i would ask them, however, to look at this again and cast their votes in favour, because all along i have tried to leave out the technicalities and have concentrated purely on the policy and philosophy of getting people with disabilities mobile again. that is an aim and objective i think we would all agree with. in that respect, i have really not much more to say, because this has been discussed at length. the commissioner is well aware of the contents of the report and probably could recite them as well as i could. finally, i should like to thank very much all those who have helped draft this report and who tomorrow will help to adopt it.
madam president, once again it is a genuine pleasure to be working with my friend mr miller. i want to pay tribute to him for his persistence in working through this, and particularly for the masterly way in which he handled the conciliation process. this is the first time i have been involved in a trialogue, so i have been able to study the process at work. indeed, as he says, we have reached a very satisfactory outcome. i fully supported the final compromise and, indeed, the benefits that it will deliver. it is important that we finally, after five long years, bring this to a close. in a moment i shall refer to some of the issues involved. however, it is important to add that, in delivering the sort of benefits that mr miller was talking about, we need to reflect the fact that a lot of other improvements to the infrastructure associated with public transport will also be needed. the buses are only part of it. that is something that we have not been able to tackle but that other committees will wish to look at. what about the principles? he quite rightly said – i tipped him off beforehand – that we will be abstaining on this. it will go through tomorrow. we certainly do not wish to obstruct it or vote against the conciliation procedure, but we feel, on this side of the house, that the principles that led us to vote against this last time – and my colleague, mr rübig, who will speak later, is a veteran of the previous process – are entirely consistent. so we will not be obstructing it. it will go on its way with our qualified support. mr miller has played the role of the man riding the last dinosaur, if i may put it that way. commissioner liikanen told us at second reading in the debate that he does not envisage bringing a regulation of this complexity before parliament again. that is absolutely the right approach. i want to take the opportunity to say to the house tonight that i, on behalf of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, have made a proposal to other committees and to the commission on ways in which parliament can exercise its political role in scrutinising and putting forward ideas for motor vehicle regulation. we have suggested that the commission should bring to us on an annual basis a comprehensive report on its plans for future motor vehicle regulation, specifying where it is going to use the economic commission for europe proposals and, indeed, covering some of the voluntary regulation process that we have talked about. that will allow this parliament, through all its various committees, to take a serious look at the political content of regulation and not ever again become immersed for five years in this sort of complex, technical regulation – a process that we finally sign off this evening.
rapporteur. – madam president, i am very pleased to present my recommendation for second reading on the energy star agreement. as you will know, in a rather complex procedure, parliament has already been consulted on the agreement itself. this is now the codecision procedure on the regulation which implements that agreement. i wish to thank the commission, the council and my colleagues, in particular the shadow rapporteurs, for their help in steering through this rather complex procedure. i would like to thank in particular the swedish presidency, which went out of its way to be helpful. the council common position takes on board most of the points made by parliament at first reading. we shall have an earlier review than was expected; we shall have an update on new technological advances in this area of energy efficiency; we shall have a report to parliament. furthermore, the united states' authorities are absolutely clear that parliament is involved in discussions on the energy star programme from the commission's point of view. this has been done through a side letter added to the agreement, at parliament's request, which meets our wishes for them to know how we operate in the european union. this clearly is not the only measure which is to be taken in the area of energy efficiency. i understand there is an update to the common position because of the new eco-label award scheme. i am prepared, as rapporteur, to accept that slight modification which has been made necessary. even though i am pleased that it looks as though this agreement is coming into force, i do not want to exaggerate its importance. it is a useful tool, but it is a relatively modest proposal; it is a voluntary scheme based on a united states model. i know many colleagues agree with me that in future we should work as a european union and have european community schemes rather than attempting to latch on to schemes developed elsewhere, in the united states for example. nevertheless, although it is relatively modest, it is welcome. computer equipment is sold worldwide and the educative, awareness-raising aspects of seeing the energy star logo on computers is worthwhile. we know that one of the tasks in increasing energy efficiency is to improve public awareness. it is a small part of what is needed. everyone in this chamber knows that energy efficiency is the most important component of energy policy. it is the fifth fuel – coal, gas, renewables, nuclear – the fifth fuel, with a 30% potential, is energy efficiency. if someone from another planet saw us acting as if we had known that, they would think we were stupid. we are not stupid, we are intelligent and that is why intelligent energy – a phrase with which i hope everyone is becoming familiar – and certainly mr wijkman, mr turmes, mrs van der laan and i are doing our best to make it a very familiar phrase – and energy-intelligent europe depends on energy efficiency. we look to the commissioner to bring in a package of measures well beyond energy star. they are demand-side management and two important directives: one on household appliances and one on office equipment – not made in the usa. i hope that during this autumn, under the belgian presidency, we will see both of those draft directives adopted. we have been very cooperative on the energy star programme. there is only one amendment, which could be withdrawn. if the commissioner is able to give us tonight an appropriate assurance and accept the spirit of that amendment, which asks her to take further action on the withdrawal of inefficient equipment, it is quite possible that we can approve the common position unamended.
madam president, i should like to start by congratulating mrs mcnally for her persistence in keeping this report on parliament's agenda and bringing it to fruition. i welcome the approach adopted in this proposal for a voluntary code. that is a more pragmatic approach towards achieving improvements. unlike mrs mcnally i see no harm in adopting measures that are in place in the united states. it is one of our aims in europe to achieve common standards in the internal market. in that regard, why should we not seek to extend those common standards to our major trading partner across the atlantic? just because it was invented in the united states does not mean it is all bad. it is very important that we should assist people making choices about purchasing equipment in knowing what the energy efficiency is. in my own experience, labelling materially affects one's decision. it certainly affected my decision this summer when i was buying a fridge and a freezer for my home. the old ones were getting very noisy and very expensive. it may be that my motive was also concern to stop using so much electricity supplied by a company owned by a french utility, but that is another issue. i should like to close by supporting the comments about the amendment, namely, that we all look to the commission to give us an assurance on the issue of the further voluntary code. this is a healthy and sensible approach.
madam president, at this hour brevity is a duty and not a virtue. although i was not a member of the committee which produced this report, i want to speak because my colleague, mrs mccarthy, who was a member, is detained by the grave events now under discussion at our party conference in brighton. i am speaking as someone concerned with consumer affairs. like mrs thors, i was for a time the chair of the consumer protection intergroup. parliament's rules do not allow us to express these opinions in the way we once did. the substantial majority which mr mayer rallied in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market was, of course, for a response which, as my colleague has said, was less than he would have wished. it is also less than i would have wished and it should be less than this parliament would have wished. the principal recommendation here is for a further study of the consequences of a transition to the use of the principle of international exhaustion. fine, but how long is that going to take when a parallel importer can be prevented from giving the consumer a quality product at a price which benefits them both? this is not like counterfeit products, as another speaker tried to suggest. it is not competitive selling at a loss to weaken rival products, nor is it driving down the quality of those products. it is a straightforward blockage of trade, which will not diminish the so-called grey markets but will make them more confused and complex. we need this to be a study which tells us of the shady side of what proclaims itself to be a respectable trade. i do not really expect more from the commissioner tonight than i have heard from him privately. however, the matter cannot rest here. the silhouette case was not the last word on all this and nor, as he would acknowledge, is mr mayer's report. nevertheless i salute him.
madam president, i am delighted at the victory of parliament at the court of first instance. it confirms that we were right in the decision that we took. mr dell'alba, though, is also right to draw attention to the fact that we must ensure that there are no disparities or discriminations in our rules. that was the objective of the report of the committee on constitutional affairs which we held in abeyance pending the judgment of the court. perhaps now is the time for this report to come before the full house, but if there is to be an appeal and if – although i would personally doubt this – the full court of justice were to suspend the effects of the decision of the court of first instance until they themselves rule, that would put us in a difficult position with the report from the committee on constitutional affairs. personally i doubt that the full court of justice would give such an ordinance giving a suspensive effect, in which case we can proceed immediately to look at the disparity that some people may feel exists in our rules. my report would, i am sure, go some way to reassuring people.
madam president, the liberal democrats in this house welcome the decisions of the extraordinary european council. we are pleased that it took on board proposals from this house in the field of justice and home affairs on combating terrorism and indeed that it reviewed the union's policies in other areas to ensure that we have joined-up thinking in our approach to this very serious problem. we regret, however, that it took a shock like the bombing of the twin towers and the pentagon to push the union into using the legal powers that it has under the treaty of amsterdam to act in fighting terrorism. liberal democrats welcome particularly the commission's proposals of yesterday for a council regulation to freeze the assets of terrorist groups. we note its request for urgency and will be pushing this morning within the committee i have the honour to chair to make a recommendation to parliament this afternoon to adopt those proposals. i hope that the committee of permanent representatives meeting this morning will add its request for urgency to that of the commission. the need for action in this area throws into sharp relief the weaknesses and the contradictions of the european union post-amsterdam. these were not dealt with properly at nice. i hope they will be dealt with at laeken and through the convention which will be established. commissioner patten yesterday rightly lamented the inability of the european union to act fast in situations like this and thus to enjoy the confidence of its member states and to coordinate the policies of its member states in an area where a supranational threat requires a supranational response. at times like this the union must act fast, but finds it cannot act fast. the mechanisms of the third pillar leave mr bin laden laughing all the way to the cash machine. i challenge the national governments to explain to our citizens why europe has been incapable of acting fast because of the curious and complicated mechanisms of the third pillar. when we act fast we find that we need urgency and urgency frequently leads to bad law. we cannot continue to adopt the necessary security measures for our citizens in a way which is infelicitous for the union's institutions, incomprehensible to our citizens and ineffective because it allows for no proper legal, democratic or administrative control of decisions. i hope that the convention set up by laeken will look at invoking article 42 of the teu to bring these policy areas fully within the core competences of the union. many measures will be needed in the coming months. commissioner vitorino has provided us with an anti-terrorism road map outlining such measures. clearly, in our consideration of these, a delicate balance will need to be struck between the security needs of our citizens and the civil liberties which make our democracy what it is. the president-in-office said this morning that we should not be blown off course on our other agendas. i agree with him. those agendas include our agenda to consolidate citizens' rights within the union and our agenda of anti-discrimination. liberals in this house will defend, with the president-in-office, the rights of eu citizens. the house has received a proposed regulation on the freezing of assets. that regulation could potentially, depending on its implementation, have a disastrous effect on many legitimate muslim-owned businesses. therefore liberals will be calling for a sunset clause in that regulation giving it a limited life to make sure that it is not being abused in its implementation. we look forward to proposals from the council for the involvement of the european parliament in determining the names that will be put on the list in the annex to that regulation. in conclusion, article 6 says that the union is founded on rights. the charter defines those rights and we hope that the convention will agree to insert the charter fully into the treaties. (applause)
mr president, the attacks on new york and washington were a new form of terrorism on a new scale, amounting to an act of war. the intention of the coalition, led by the united states, to eradicate terrorism deserves the support of the european democracies in particular. we welcome the measures taken by the european council since the attacks and we are playing our part in putting them swiftly into effect. however, let us also be vigilant in ensuring that the european union does not, in its haste, take steps which exceed the current needs. in some cases, these measures should be renewable and temporary. last week in rome i and my colleagues had a series of meetings in connection with the reaction to terrorism. we met the exiled afghan king, mohammed zahir shah, who ruled for 40 years until 1973 and who in 1964 introduced free elections and a free media and brought women into politics. we affirm our support for the central role he is willing to play in the return to democracy of his country. we urge the european parliament, the council and the commission to take up immediate contacts with the king. we also had meetings with italian ministers and were able to express our thanks for the additional deployment of troops in the balkans, allowing british special forces to be deployed in another theatre. we also discussed at the vatican the values shared by all faiths, including islam, concerning the integrity of human beings, their rights and the universal belief in the peaceful resolution of disputes, whether in the context of democracy or other systems. we held meetings with the world food programme and were told that the international community should start to plan now for a reconstruction agency similar to the one the european union set up for kosovo. even before the current crisis, drought, a failing economy and war had turned afghanistan into one of the most difficult places to live on earth, with as many as 22% of children in some districts dead before they had reached five years of age and an average life expectancy of 40. the actions about to begin are designed not simply to eradicate terrorism, but also to eradicate an evil regime.
chairman of the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs. – mr president, this first vote on our order paper today relates to the request from the commission for urgent procedure on the measure you have outlined. in exceptional circumstances, following the attack on the twin towers and the pentagon, the committee on citizens' freedom and rights, justice and home affairs met this morning and approved, without report, the proposal submitted to us. i understand that we will also receive, following this morning's coreper meeting, a request from the council for urgency, to add to that from the commission. it is the recommendation of the committee, which i have the honour to chair, that we accept that amendment. if that is approved by the house, i hope you will confirm that would give the political groups until 6 p.m. this evening to submit amendments to this proposed measure.
rapporteur. – mr president, i had expected to recommend the house to adopt this draft regulation unamended at second reading. that depended, however, on a statement from the commissioner last night. unfortunately, the statement by mrs de palacio was insufficient. however, i would now like to ask the commission again whether it will undertake to bring in measures complementary to this agreement in the first three months of next year. this is the only commitment which we will accept as reasonable, otherwise i will ask the house to vote for the amendment and to invoke the conciliation procedure. i therefore ask the commission to clarify its position on supplementary measures. (applause)
the freedom of movement on which this european union is founded is daily denied to our continent's 37 million disabled citizens. there is no more important question in the campaign for comprehensive human rights for disabled people than the pursuit of accessible public transport. the directive finally agreed today, is a historic step forward in that campaign. it shows that the cost of access for industry is affordable, if only designed-for-all principles are included at the beginning. it shows that european regulation really can make a difference in enforcing rights for disabled people. above all, it shows that eleven years of tireless campaigning by the disability movement, by buses for all in my own country the uk, was absolutely worthwhile, necessary and ultimately victorious. congratulations to all of you. i am proud that the european parliament has helped deliver your demands.
mr president, i share some, if not all, of mrs mckenna's reservations on the pirker report. however, i voted in favour of this report on a common immigration policy, but with an extremely heavy heart. i did so because although the report as amended is, as we would say in english, all over the place – some points do not correspond with others and there are contradictions left, right and centre – there are a few (and i am sure mrs mckenna will look at them) but significant positive aspects to the report. for example, it recognises the right of third-country nationals legally resident in the european union to free movement in europe. equally, it gives the right to vote in local elections. however, there are negative aspects. i doubt whether all the people who voted for paragraph 35 could have read it, because it restricts the right of residence, accommodation and education. that is inherently racist and we should oppose it. however, to have rejected the report would have placed in jeopardy the positive points; hence my support, although with the reservations i have expressed clearly here.
in writing. - mr president, i warmly welcome the report by our colleague mr paul rübig which encourages research and innovation and supports a commission initiative to promote innovation. the eu has been criticized time and again for failing to keep up with technological innovation and for lagging far behind its us counterparts in this area. the eu needs to make better use of its innovation potential in this area. the report underlines this: this was recognised at the lisbon summit, called the point.com summit. the european member states must join forces and bring together their respective specialties and create a system of qualification. to complement these measures, the report rightly calls for higher quality education. this will give a lot of tone to the lisbon strategy. finally, these innovations cannot progress without a relaxation of bureaucratic regulations. if we reduce the bureaucracy that currently hinders european innovation, we will be better able to compete with the us, to increase the number of start-ups and to create new businesses in the union.
in writing. - the british conservatives voted against this motion for a resolution, as it repeats the mistakes of the durban conference. the middle east is too much in the spotlight, and we cannot agree to that. we are not convinced that it was not better than the capote conference. in many ways, the durban conference is part of an era that has passed since 9/11.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution on the world conference against racism in durban because i wanted to make it very clear that this conference has done the worst possible service to the promotion of good relations between races. it was taken hostage by people whose only objective was to attack the state of israel and ignore that it is the only country in the middle east based on democracy. the countries and organizations that have isolated israel have a disastrous record in terms of human rights. worse, the language and tone used for the criticism was more like adolf hitler's germany's "stürmer". and yet, despite this, neither the un nor the conference is condemned for allowing this. the united states has made it clear that it will not take part in these discussions. the european union should have adopted the same attitude. its failure to do so is a sad testimony to its failure to learn from the past.
mr president, on behalf of the liberal group, i wish to say that we believe the stability and growth pact is an essential pillar of economic stability in the euro area and in the union more widely, and should be respected in letter and spirit. we do not recognise the view, apparently emanating from the socialist group, that the sgp currently incorporates unnecessarily restrictive fiscal rules. for the 11 countries whose budgets are in a sustainable position – those which, in other words, can face a normal recession with a fall in tax revenue and continue to respect the 3% limit on budget deficits – there is no need to raise taxes or cut public spending and the automatic stabilisers can and should be allowed to play. moreover, for many of these countries, this is the first slowdown since the first oil shock in 1973 in which the automatic stabilisers have been able to work fully. previously, financial market worries have been a serious constraint on governments. so monetary union, the stability and growth pact and fiscal consolidation have given back to member states a useful policy lever which has been out of the policy box for too long. for the four euro-area member states whose budgets are not yet fully compatible with the stability and growth pact – france, germany, italy and portugal – it is wholly reasonable that they should continue the process of putting their underlying budget positions right. this means allowing some effects of the slowdown on the deficit, but certainly not all. in our joint motion with the ppe-de group we urge the proper respect of the sgp. we point out that it would be particularly useful in a year like this one – in which many stability programmes were drafted in expectation of 3% growth, but the out-turn is likely to be less than 2%, as the commission has said – if there were a commonly agreed measure between the ecb, ecofin and the commission of the underlying budget balance, stripping out the impact of the slowdown on taxes and cyclically determined spending and, perhaps, interest rates as well. such an underlying budget balance would allow better between-years monitoring of the fiscal position, underpinning the discipline of the stability and growth pact and reassuring the financial markets that the fiscal stance is not being eased, even if the nominal deficits are inevitably somewhat larger. similarly, such an underlying budget balance would discourage finance ministers from fiscal easing in upturns, merely on account of cyclically buoyant revenue. i urge us to respect the stability and growth pact and add to its ability to check finance ministers' discipline.
- mr president, i have to go. stability and growth are goals of social action which everyone wants, regardless of the party or group to which they belong in this european parliament. however, we differ considerably in the definition of the terms and, even more so, in the ways in which we are seeking to achieve this objective. a purely fiscal interpretation will not solve the present problems of declining economic growth and persistently high unemployment. market economy as an economic category - yes the market economy as a social policy category - no! or to put it another way: the market can and should regulate the economy, but not society. we are not focusing on a supply-oriented economic policy but on a demand-oriented one. we do not believe that liberalization is the solution to the problem of evil. we need not only business competition, but also a link with economic and social criteria to achieve the highest levels of social security, sustainability and equity. budgetary reform, yes, but not, whatever the cost. i am opposed to the president of the council's proposal for an anti-cyclical economic policy. increasing public spending on enlargement investment, training and education is also essential in times of recession. we have the eurozone, but no european economic, fiscal or social policy. this can't work. it is not just about price stability, as the ecb is called to do, but also about socioeconomic stability. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the elderly, and has recently introduced a new approach to the problem of unemployment. we need to recast the figures taking into account other parameters such as the employment rate, the value added rate, the investment rate, because these figures reflect economic strength and economic development.
mr president, commissioner, the dark clouds of recession are looming in the west, in part due to the piercing of the asset bubble of the us stock market, but further exacerbated by the tragic events of 11 september. the us federal reserve has now dropped the federal funds rate to 2.5% – a 39-year low. this is the ninth rate cut this year. the ecb may respond shortly, but almost two years since the euro's launch, there is as yet little enthusiasm for its future role as the major international reserve currency. this is in part the result of exchange-rate weakness and, in part, because the notes and coins are not yet in circulation, so it cannot yet be heralded as an unqualified success. it remains to be seen if the one-size-fits-all model of interest rates will work in all the countries of the union, in particular countries like ireland. these concerns and the added concerns about constitutional implications and loss of sovereignty leave my country, the uk, happy to remain outside for the time being. although clearly we all wish the project well, it has frankly confounded many pessimists including our former prime minister john major. some years ago, the commission in its mcdougal report concluded that central tax-raising powers of at least 7% of gdp would be needed to allow counter-cyclical spending and transfer payments to make a single-currency zone function properly. this would, of course, have been anathema to member states, so they decided instead on strict spending, borrowing and inflation limits in dublin in 1996 as an alternative. recently, there have been calls to make these stability and growth pact ceilings more flexible. this is unwise in my opinion, as i believe firmly that a prudent approach to public finance and borrowing is a good thing. furthermore, the british economy is linked to and becoming more convergent with the euro zone, so we all have an incentive to stick to the guidelines and we must not allow the us crisis to be an excuse for new, big government tax-and-spend policies. the stability pact includes mechanisms designed to operate in recession and article 2.1 on the excessive deficit procedure could be used in exceptional circumstances to justify higher military or security spending. but member states should concentrate on structural reforms, particularly in their labour markets, as the way ahead. otherwise, we would only have high inflation and massive increases in the mountain of national debt.
mr president, rather than talk about the stability and growth pact i want to comment on another subject which was raised at the informal ecofin and with which this debate deals, and that is the member states' ministers' call for parliament's agreement on the money laundering directive. i would like to echo that call for both colleagues across the european parliament and governments across europe to reach an agreement on this directive as soon as possible. this has been made all the more crucial by the tragic events of 11 september. terror that day struck at the heart of the global financial system. the terrorists were clearly prepared to use all the mechanisms and tools that the global financial system gave them in planning that attack. let us turn those tools against them. many bankers and finance workers died in that attack. let us enlist the help of those bankers and finance workers in responding to it and preventing a repetition thereof, because this is a concrete step that we can take in the war against terrorism. no-one is going to ask us to go and die on an afghan hillside, though others will be asked to pay that price. but we too can – and should – make a contribution, because the bankers, brokers, cleaners, it technicians, investment advisers, lawyers and caterers who spill off our trains into city centres in frankfurt, paris, london and brussels are just the same as those 5000 or 6000 people who turned up for work in new york one day and will never ever come home. the time has come to stop quibbling about lawyer confidentiality. i call on this parliament to agree to a directive which will help starve the terrorists of funds. i call on it to agree to the freezing of assets of terrorist organisations, because someone, somewhere, is banking bin laden's money. we can help starve him of funds, which is as important a task as the military operation which we know will soon follow.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. – mr president, i declare an interest as a director of a television documentary company, in which i am now not very active; but i retain my concern for the quality of our broadcasting and television. i welcome mrs hieronymi's report and salute her for it. it goes to the heart of the cultural diversity that we prize in europe. we defend public service obligations – however the service concerned may be financed – and the principles of universal access, which constantly come back in all of our debates now about technology. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has taken heed of the imbalance in the european audio-visual market place, and i hope the commissioner will be able speak on this. since 1999 the revenues of european television companies have grown by an average of 46.3%. in that time, public-service broadcasting hardly grew at all and creative television production in the five major producing countries of the european union was sluggish or, in some cases, falling. at the same time, us programme sales to europe – programmes which, as we know, are reaping their tertiary reward, having already cleared their primary and secondary rewards in the us market directly and by satellite and cable – grew massively. that is not a healthy situation. the protection of the diverse market in europe remains crucial. the imperatives of the technology should be linked to what consumers need, as well as what the production empires want to sell. article 3a, referred to earlier by the rapporteur, shows what can be done to keep the widest audience for special events. i too support mrs junker's amendments and others on the same point. it was a major change for the better and it showed that we can intervene here and in the european union. we need to return to the issue of media concentration and how that relates to the public good, not just in terms of diversity but also in terms of raw political power. finally, we ought to be able to say to the applicant countries: do as we do and not merely as we say. that means having rules that are observed, for them as well as for us.
mr president, there are many who believe that this report does not go far enough in analysing the potential problems facing us as we embark on the revision of the television without frontiers directive, expected in 2002 as we are all aware. however, it raises some very important issues and it is important to start that dialogue now. my personal concern is the role of public service broadcasters in this important agenda. it is important to recognise that today's public service broadcasting needs to adapt to the changes. today's radio and tv sector is a competitive one and the market forces which largely govern it cannot be ignored. public service broadcasters have a crucial role to play in the digital world. public service broadcasters make programmes of high quality in indigenous languages reflecting indigenous cultures. they also have a crucial role to play in encouraging people to use and understand the new digital media. i agree with the commissioner's statement in a recent communication that broadcasting and culture should remain within the wto's services category and that this arrangement should be respected. having established that, we then need to be absolutely certain that there is sufficient scope for national and eu legislation to protect public services and cultural entities. robust and determined early regulatory action will be needed to create the open environment we all seek, and one which is in the real interests of all citizens and economies of europe. europe has to compete in the digital world where consumers and citizens can wander freely and where competition delivers diversity and choice. with its complementary mix then of private and public service broadcasters, the european audiovisual model guarantees pluralism of information, cultural diversity and access for all to information, education, entertainment and the arts. i will be voting in favour of the report and look forward very much to the forthcoming debates as we look to the future.
i need advice. - i had the opportunity to look into this whole matter a while ago. the suggestion of mr staes is one of the suggestions currently on the table.
president-in-office, european industry is losing its competitive edge in regard to reaching the targets that you and the council set for it at lisbon by the extreme cost and time delays involved in obtaining patents in europe. i believe the belgian presidency undertook to make a special effort to have the community patent installed and implemented during its presidency. i would be interested to know what progress is being made and whether you really are resolving the language issue in the european patent office.
i should just like to underline mr staes's point on the importance of the language regime, while not ignoring the importance of the point my colleague, mr purvis, has made about the need for speed. nevertheless, the whole business of taking research on to the development stage is important. if we are to have good research in all the universities and all the areas of the community, it is really important for people to be able to work in their own language, even though, of course, most scientists work in english much of the time.
my question was implicit: does the minister agree?
mr president, i want to deal particularly with the issue of public expenditure, quality and employment. the explanatory statement of mrs peijs' report is very interesting because it explains the background. we have to beware of chasing the american economic model. one of the things that has made many people within the european union hostile to the euro is that they have seen its introduction as linked to cuts in public expenditure. we have seen, with the american economic model, the prioritising of the private and the cutting of the public. the result has been a tremendous disparity between rich and poor and high levels of child poverty – unlike in countries which invest in social expenditure and reduce the wealth gap. we know that child poverty is linked to poorer educational attainment, poorer job prospects and so on. we have also seen in that economy a reduction of job security and longer working hours, with the introduction of a flexible contract culture. in the uk, contracting out at lower cost quite often means compensatory tax measures at the lower end of pay, a public subsidy to poor wages from poor employers. the american model also represents an unsustainable pattern of consumption, which will have an economic impact in the longer term. my group believes that mrs peijs' report does not look sufficiently at the quality of the contribution of public finances. so we cannot support the report in its current form. hence the amendments we have tabled. i know that it is very difficult to measure the benefits of public expenditure in the same way we look at the balance sheet of a private health care company for example. public expenditure is an investment in social cohesion and we are gradually coming to recognise the costs of not investing in that. indeed, a priority for the european union now is combating social exclusion. we count as an economic success private spending to compensate for the lack of public expenditure. every burglar alarm bought, for example, is because we feel we are not safe. we agree that we need to reduce the cost of employing people and to focus on lifting taxation costs for the poorer paid, many of whom are women. but we also need to reduce working hours as part of increasing employment opportunities. it is clear to us that a knowledge-based society which tackles social exclusion – we have to remember that lisbon also said that – needs greater investment. and where will that come from if there is no significant public expenditure? employers increasingly want ready-trained employees as part of the flexible contract culture. we consider that public investments can have a very positive value and can help to shift the direction of our economy, as we recognise our ecological responsibilities.
deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, i am honoured to have been asked by my colleague, mr agag longo, to present his excellent and detailed report to parliament on the commission's xxxth report on competition policy. the report draws together several important areas of competition policy. the rapporteur restates parliament's strong support for commissioner monti in spelling out that effective competition is not only an important engine of economic growth but also works to the advantage of consumers, through greater variety, better quality and lower prices for both goods and services. we congratulate the commissioner on the success of european competition policy, but we recognise that such success can only be maintained by constant and rigorous monitoring. our rapporteur has highlighted further measures to which parliament will be giving its attention in the coming months. the future of car distribution is one area where we eagerly await the commission's proposals. i believe that our initial evaluations suggest that consumers are missing out under the current exemption, with unjustifiable price variations between member states. we also await the consultation on merger regulation no 4064/89. we welcome commissioner monti's positive approach to consultation with our committee, but we repeat our call for major constitutional change which gives parliament real codecision power with the commission. commissioner monti has played the central role in fostering a global approach to competition policy and enforcement issues. our committee supports efforts to build an international competition system in the framework of the wto, whilst recognising that europe's credibility in this area will depend on efficient and effective cooperation between the eu's own national competition authorities. we are also looking to the outcome of negotiations between the commission and the council on the commission's proposals for reform of the enforcement regime under articles 81 and 82 which we approved last month. mr agag longo draws attention in his report to other important elements of parliament's position on the reform, our strong support for article 3 and our real concern over issues of legal certainty, as well as separation of powers. i know that commissioner monti is aware of this, but we have consistently argued that the commission must guard against the danger that the reform may lead to inconsistent application or even to a renationalisation of competition policy, thereby destroying the single market. in continuing to raise these issues we reflect the concerns of many in the business community in europe. our committee has also underlined other competition concerns. we look to further market liberalisation, but we want effective enforcement of already agreed policy areas in the gas and the electricity sectors. the commissioner is aware of the complaints which have been made about some acquisitions by companies which do not appear to operate in a liberalised home market and we look to the commission to investigate whether state-aid rules have been breached in such cases. mr agag longo also urges further progress on liberalisation in areas such as energy, transport and the postal services. we welcome the progress which the commissioner has made on state aid control. we also support his work in ensuring that candidate countries for membership fully understand the requirements of eu competition policy, particularly the application and relevance of such rules in terms of market distortion. our committee will shortly respond in fuller detail to the commission's ninth state aid survey, but this report also touches on this area. we applaud progress on implementation of a public register of state aid and a scoreboard as important tools for promoting transparency and democratic control, even if i embarrass commissioner monti by saying that his practical demonstration of the scoreboard to our committee was frustrated by technical problems. we view such widespread public access to information as essential. in the same light we welcome the continuing commitment to hold competition day seminars under each council presidency, although we are keen to see wider public knowledge of, and participation in, such events. finally, on an entirely personal note, i would like to express my concern that the commission has made particularly slow progress over complaints concerning the spanish government's treatment of gibraltar citizens in relation to telecoms matters. these complaints have been outstanding with the commission for over five years, whilst the commission has itself recently initiated a state aids investigation of gibraltar's investment schemes, ordering it to cease forthwith until the commission investigation is concluded. i am bound to say that this hardly seems to me to be an even-handed approach and i hope commissioner monti will agree to look into this. otherwise i commend mr agag longo's excellent report to the house.
rapporteur. – mr president, financial services should be the big winner from e-commerce, because the sector does not have the problems of physical delivery, unlike booksellers or grocery supermarkets. a financial service, whether a savings vehicle like a pension or a mutual fund or just a simple bank account, is by its nature ethereal and intangible. many transactions in banking and stockbrokerage are already taking place online. unice, the eu employers' organisation, estimates that nearly one-fifth of banking transactions in europe are now executed through the internet, direct dial, mobile phone, or digital television, nearly double the proportion in the us. in the nordic countries of the union, the overall proportion is more than a third. however, the vast majority of those transactions happen within an eu member state. cross-border e-commerce in financial services is in its infancy and it has not chased prices down to the level of the cheapest member state. indeed, the most recent survey suggests that bank charges vary more widely around the average than they did in the mid-80s at the beginning of the single market programme. there is a lot still to do. the e-commerce directive past last year was designed to encourage cross-border trade by enshrining the country-of-origin principle. this is one of the essential market-opening principles of the internal market. if harmonising rules is too difficult, at least recognise the right of any company to do business anywhere in the union once authorised by one member state. the key judgment was that consumers would benefit more from increased competition than they might lose from the greater difficulty of seeking legal redress from a far-flung and delinquent supplier. that is simply because the country-of-origin principle ensures the maximum amount of extra competition and extra competition is ultimately the consumer's best friend. true, the e-commerce directive allows exceptions still subject to national regulation of incoming services, notably insurance in unit trusts. in general, most of the liberally-minded market-opening fraternity were pleased to get it on the statute book. as its full implications have sunk in, some member states have been quietly attempting to restrict the scope of its application and backpedal on its implications. this is the real significance of the commission's white paper on e-commerce and financial services. it is designed to clear up the bits left out of the e-commerce directive and the report we are debating tonight is designed to support the commission's resolve to open up the single market; if necessary, by insisting on the provisions of the e-commerce directive despite the reservations of some member states. we must maintain the liberal thrust of the e-commerce directive. that means also setting a clear timetable to include both insurance and advertising of unit trusts in the general country-of-origin approach. insurance services, for example, are particularly suited to e-commerce provision. it also means basing any guidance from the commission to member states about consumer protection on real documented problems, not on imagined ones. of course, there are real difficulties. the commission needs to look at these difficulties carefully and attempt to set out a clear road map to allow e-commerce and financial services to flourish. consumers are concerned about security, particularly with cross-border transactions. soft law provisions, alternative dispute procedures, should be made effective so that they can deal with the vast majority of problematic cases and we have asked for a regular report on that. some convergence of national rules on consumer contracts is clearly desirable, though this should not be used as an excuse to delay the single market. some standard features of terrestrial banking, like applying the money-laundering provisions by looking your depositor in the eye to ask where her or his money came from, require fresh thought in an e-depositing world. it is also the case that financial services transactions are rarely entirely online without any offline elements, so we need to work as far as possible to ensure coherence. the prize for getting this framework right is very great. e-commerce and the euro can make a reality of cross-border financial services, not just for business but also for savers and the extra competition will, as it always does, bring long-lasting and real benefits. so, i urge the house to stick to the line that we have set in the past in asking for opening up of this market.
, draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. – mr president, it gives me great pleasure this evening, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, to give our opinion on what is an excellent report. we started work having the benefit of the full text of the rapporteur, mr huhne's report, and so our role was very much to improve on what we felt was already an excellent text. from the perspective of the legal affairs committee, which was responsible for the e-commerce directive, we feel that the rapporteur's thrust – as he emphasised just now and in relation to the country-of-origin principle – is in line with our own opinion. we would add our voice very strongly to that of the committee on economic and monetary affairs in encouraging the commission to move down this line. i want to pick up a couple of points on our amendments. we are very grateful to the rapporteur for accepting all of the amendments of the legal affairs committee and to the committee for voting them into the final report. we lay particular emphasis on the question of a payment and payment systems. it is quite clear from recent studies across the european union that one of the things that is deterring consumers from shopping in the electronic age is worry about the security of their payments. this will be absolutely crucial if financial services are to move forward. so we have suggested a number of methods for improving the security of electronic payments. we have encouraged the commission, particularly, to take a look at emerging forms of electronic payment. while at the moment a very high level of consumer transactions are made by credit cards, we think that new formats will emerge and that the commission needs to take that into account. in conclusion, legislation has to enable contracts to be concluded by means of electronic signatures in financial services transactions. we pointed that out as a specific area to be addressed. this is a very good report. i encourage the house to give it its full support when we vote on it tomorrow.
mr president, i too congratulate the rapporteur on the report which he will present to us tomorrow. we know he has worked extremely hard on this report and very closely with others in this chamber to ensure its success. clearly the changing industry of financial services lends itself very well to the new technologies which have emerged and continue to emerge across the world. the ability of consumers, confusing as it can be, to pick such technologies, to choose a variety of financial services within the individual member states, has been with us now for some little time. but the choice of financial products across borders inside europe is even more recent an affair. this means that services, rather than physical products – and the rights of consumers to have confidence in the performance of those services – is as vital here as it is for manufactured products. the marketing and advertising of services, the claims and boasts of providers, must be checked against the need to allay the fears of risk to consumers, to safeguard their purchases and exchanges by electronic means. this is why my group has so high a regard for the element of consumer safety. the country-of-origin principle is simply the best agreed way of approaching the process of harmonising the standards for attaining an eu-wide application of the guidance for those standards which are to be expected in those nations. at the same time brussels, too, is clearly more than just an element for consideration by the commission in this process. the amendments before the house allow for the flexibility required to pursue the exciting new medium of technology, as does the text. in particular i would like to recognise mr herzog's concerns, where he rightly points out in his amendments that we need to keep pace with technological change in order to reduce the possibility of criminality, of fraud and of money laundering. my group believes that so long as consumer interests can be asserted and maintained as an essential element of the provisions of this report, then it is obviously going to be willing to withdraw any amendments that might suggest derogations or deletions to the country- of-origin principle. the liberation of e-commerce is the element of any dynamic european economy of the future; the counterbalance that has to be struck and which has to be fully realised is the effects it has on those who would use it as consumers. i commend this report to the house.
mr president, i should like to thank mrs berger very much for her clear statement of support for this proposal this evening. those of you who have looked at the report will know that she withdrew her original explanatory statement. i was delighted to hear this evening that she had confirmed her full support. this report, with the support of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy and my colleague, mr beysen, and with mrs berger's assistance also, now strikes the right balance by giving the commission a clear indication of the support of our committee and others for this important initiative. i am delighted that mrs berger is going with the flow of that for many of us felt that her initial report really did not do full justice to what we regard as an imaginative proposal, a wide-ranging proposal, and one that is of crucial economic importance to the future of the european union. we must not ignore the continual structural change in the world economies, in particular in developed economies like the european union. we are seeing services and manufacturing business starting to converge. we are seeing more integration of traditional service providers, with their manufacturing arms looking to focus on customers in a very different way. therefore, opening up the single market for services is going to be of great importance. one thing i particularly welcome from the commission's analysis – something it has indicated in the report that it will now do more work on – is that it highlights the importance of a highly competitive service infrastructure in the overall competitiveness of european industry. so many businesses depend on high-quality, effective, low-cost, efficient services to deliver their businesses. indeed the whole of the electronic commerce area, which we talked about in financial services earlier on, is facilitating and opening up these sorts of markets. therefore, this communication is extremely welcome. we look forward, in the legal affairs committee as well as in the industry committee, to working with the commission and to moving forward with the necessary legal framework and the other actions that will be necessary to achieve it. i want to reinforce what mrs grönfeldt bergman said about the role of the small- and medium-sized enterprises in this sector. again we are seeing the combination of increasing importance of services combined with electronic commerce and the electronic means of delivering those services. that is an area, particularly crucial in the business-to-business sector, where small- and medium-sized enterprises have a crucial role to play in the european economy. again, these provisions will help. i refer back to the country-of-origin principle. i share mrs berger's view that by a happy coincidence we have a set of reports tonight with a common thread running through them. i do not regard the country-of-origin principle as a magic bullet to achieve market integration at a single stroke. clearly there is a lot of work to be done. yet, by operating the country-of-origin principle vigorously and consistently we will actually achieve competition and higher standards for consumers more quickly than by any other means. consumers are going to be well-informed and intelligent enough to know where the best standards of consumer protection are. they are going to demand them from other countries. this is not a question of harmonising down. it is an effective means of making the market operate in the interests of consumers, which is exactly what commissioner monti told us in addressing the competition report earlier on.
mr president, for those of us who have sat through the discussions in this conciliation, mr ebner's comments have come as a welcome and positive contribution to our deliberations. for those of us who have to explain back home how this parliament influences legislation, the timetable and content of the general product safety directive could be something of a model. progress here has been relatively swift; the commission proposal submitted 15 months ago has now gone through every stage, with all of the three parts which make up the triangle of forces involved now having made their own distinctive contributions. secondly, as regards parliament, there is the rapporteur. mrs gonzález álvarez has taken a consistent, thorough and dedicated line throughout the passage of this legislation through parliament. she has known when to hold firm and when to make concessions. those of us who have felt that occasionally we did not prevail when we should, owe it to her that the door is open for further and better changes after these initial steps. twenty-one of our thirty amendments have been accepted by the council. i am particularly grateful, in respect of the uk, for the clarified exemption for charity shops and street markets from the obligation to provide information on origin, which would have been beyond them. this was not a community-wide problem, but in countries like the irish republic and britain it mattered very greatly, and much good has been done by the clarification provided. we have the clear recognition now of the precautionary principle itself. there was an uncommon delay before the other institutions were prepared even to write this into the preambles, but they have done so and it is now one of the markers which will guide us as we look at how product safety legislation develops. we were not as successful as i would have wanted on withdrawal and recall, and we shall return to that and other matters later. it is important that we should be required to consider the safety of services and to examine proposals to this end in reasonably quick time. in this we were simply holding the commission to a principle which it supported in theory, but must now deliver in practice by 2003. at the same time, we shall have to look hard at the failure to ban the export of unsafe products to the rest of the world, as the rapporteur has said, and the nature of the safety indications which imported products have to carry. one has only to look at the ce mark to see the imperfections there. this was one step forward, but an important one. i congratulate the rapporteur. she has certainly earned our quality mark in these debates.
mr president, i would like to express my support and that of my group for the report from the conciliation committee. i also congratulate the rapporteur, mrs gonzález álvarez, who has done an excellent job. the report before us makes for a significant improvement on current legislation governing the safety of products. of the points agreed, i particularly welcome the fact that stronger action can now be taken at community level under the rapid alert system where there is a serious risk to consumers, so that dangerous products can be taken off the market. it is important that we have adequate and independent certification to comply with the relevant product safety criteria and clear labelling for consumers. the fact that the commission will be reporting regularly to parliament is significant, as is the reference to the precautionary principle and the duty of the relevant authorities in member states to interpret this in relation to all products. my group believes that all consumers, both within and outside the european union, should be treated equally. as the rapporteur has stressed several times during discussions on this directive, safety should be assured for all consumers. i am also glad that agreement has been reached on antique and charity shops and car boot sales, as by their nature they cannot provide information about second-hand goods but do provide a very valuable service. overall, we need a good balance between ensuring that products put on the market are safe and seeing to it that the measures proposed to that end can be implemented in practice. this report partially achieves that and the consumer organisations which have welcomed earlier drafts of this directive will welcome this one, too. our top priority is to ensure that consumers are protected and that they have the right to know which products are dangerous and what is being done about them. this report makes significant improvements to existing legislation and hopefully will have the support of parliament.
rapporteur. – mr president, a family in a mud hut in rural africa without access to clean water, electricity, hospital or community centre is simply devastated when it discovers that a member of the family is suffering from any one of the three diseases hiv/aids, tb or malaria. the patient has no access to a clinic nearby that can test, diagnose and treat him and, even if there is one, he cannot afford the treatment. the patient's family is in crisis, not only because of illness but also because it has to find the money for treatment that will include the cost of transport and additional nutritional requirements. this is the reality! therefore, my objective was to produce a report with recommendations that would support a programme of action that is possible to fund, practical to implement, and most beneficial to those who are the poor victims of such infections. such a report requires wide consultation with colleagues from all political groups, the european commission, the pharmaceutical industry, un agencies, ngos and civil society, so that a consensus based on facts can be achieved and appropriate action taken to target the problem, making most efficient use of limited resources. i had that wide consultation, and i want to thank all colleagues who were so helpful, in particular dr fransen and her team and commissioner nielson's department. dr fransen has worked in africa herself, so she was a mine of information. i also want to thank all colleagues from all political parties, especially in the committee on development and cooperation, related committees and, of course, the secretariats, who were extremely helpful. the report promotes the following: a global fund financed by g8, the eu, oil-rich nations and others to finance access to and supply of medication and treatment; a global strategy to implement a programme of action to treat and prevent communicable diseases; tiered pricing of medicines from the pharmaceutical industry to ensure wide access to treatment; support for health infrastructure to scan, diagnose, treat and monitor patients, as supply of medicines in itself is inadequate; use of incentives – both financial and legislative – to enhance research and development to produce new medicines and vaccines by both industry and the public sector; the european commission to work closely with the governments of developing countries, un agencies, ngos and civil society to implement the programme. it promotes appropriate future legislation to give more flexibility in the implementation of trips to encourage transfer of technology for local manufacture of essential medicines wherever this is viable. there are four paragraphs in the report which require minor changes because of errors or difficulty in implementation. my intention in paragraph 14 was to ensure that if we are to find the lowest prices for medicines for poor countries and for the patients in these countries, we must ensure that the developing countries do not impose import duty and taxes on imports of essential medicines. developed countries – the eu and the usa – do not impose export taxes when they export medicines from their countries. so there is a mistake in paragraph 14. i want to make an oral amendment, which i hope colleagues will accept. it should read: "calls on developing countries to abolish tariffs and taxes on imports of essential drugs and equipment in order to make health care more affordable;". this paragraph really refers to import taxes in developing countries. i also want to make an oral amendment to paragraph 9 to replace "10%" with the word "appropriate", because you cannot dictate to the european commission and the committee on budgets what exact percentage of money should be spent – there are budget lines, which are already agreed in other committees and in other reports. so "appropriate" is the word, rather than "10%". in paragraph 20, i would like to propose an oral amendment, which i hope members of this house will support, to delete the second part which begins "in which a doubling of the budget ....". again, the same problem applies: you cannot in a report like this put a fixed percentage when other committees have agreed budget lines and the commission has budget appropriations fixed by the council of ministers for doing the job it is doing. these are minor changes. finally, i wish to clarify the issue of the patent life of medicines, as some colleagues have expressed concern. a new drug costs about usd 500 m to research, test and bring to market. unless this sum is recoverable, nobody will invest in research and the development of drugs for diseases of the poor. no government can finance such investment so we must encourage the pharmaceutical industry to continue to finance research. their patent is in any case irrelevant after seven or ten years as new drugs are developed and doctors will change a treatment regime, thereby precipitating the fall in price of that medicine still under patent. the real trick – and this is what i have been trying to do in this report – is to secure tiered pricing for all medication – new and old – so that the poor patients benefit whilst the industry continues to pay for research and development. my amendment no 1 addresses this problem and i have inserted the word "review" to replace the word "reduce", in order to cooperate with colleagues concerned about this issue. so i am not throwing it out of the window, i am asking us to review it in wto. if there is justification for amending it, so be it. i hope that this house will give me full support for this report, which i did not try to make political. it concerns something that we must do for the poor so that we can tell the world, especially the poor, that the european union is concerned about their problems and will take the lead in fighting disease and poverty throughout the world.
mr president, i should like to begin by commending both the commission communication and mr khanbhai's report. access to medicines will be a key issue at doha in a few weeks' time simply because developing countries feel hugely disadvantaged by rules which are applied universally, even though countries are of unequal strength, both economically and institutionally. they will be calling clearly for the trips agreement to be applied fairly. the global spotlight, therefore, will be firmly on the role played by pharmaceutical companies in the hiv/aids catastrophe. only 0.1% of the 25 million people living with hiv/aids in sub-saharan africa have access to lifesaving drugs or indeed for the drugs for the opportunistic infections such as meningitis, drug-resistant diarrhoea, oral thrush and those other infections. there are now alternatives – cheap copies of life-saving medicines. in brazil, thailand and india their laws allow them to ignore drug patents. in india for instance, companies are marketing a drug for the treatment of that drug-resistant diarrhoea, at 1.8% of the price charged in pakistan where only the patented version can be bought. four years ago brazil waived the patent rights on hiv drugs and allowed local companies to produce cheap versions. prices in brazil have fallen by 80% and they have halved the number of deaths from hiv/aids. i come to the point made by mr khanbhai on research and development. if so much commitment is made by the pharmaceutical companies to r&d, how come they actually spend twice as much on marketing as they do on research and development? according to the undp's recent figures less than 10% of global spending on health research addresses 90% of the global disease burden. of the 1223 new drugs marketed between 1975 and 1996, only 13 of those drugs were developed to treat tropical diseases and only 4 of those 13 were the result of the pharmaceutical industry's research. and why is it that they charge more for the same drugs in africa, than they charge in the northern hemisphere? i would argue that these facts very clearly speak for themselves. they have – and this is a very important point to make and it will be made in doha – a virtual monopoly which means that they can control prices. they are virtually saying "no" to cheap, affordable generics for very sick people in poor countries. globalisation is meant to be about freer markets and about increased competition. the big four pharmaceutical companies act like a cartel: they bully developing countries and they deny them their rights to those drugs. during the uruguay round they secured agreement on patent rights for 20 years. the trips agreement was a clear example of the powerful vested interests of the developed world at this time. all this threatens the whole credibility of the world trade organisation and any chance we have of believing in the developments at doha, or if we ever have a new round of fair, multilateral trading systems. there is now a clear need for a clear and new interpretation of trips allowing for the flexibility which clearly exists in that agreement. we need to ensure that it is the interests of poor countries that are put first. this is an issue of fundamental social justice. (applause)
mr president, in the north people think it is all over where aids is concerned. it is not, of course, but changing lifestyles and the arrival of effective drug regimes have, at least, helped us turn a corner on the long road that we walk. the forecasts when i was health minister fighting these issues were not the same as the forecasts now. but in the south the picture is very different. ninety-five per cent of the five million new cases every year are in low-income countries in the south. there are 25 million people living with aids in africa and 6 million in the new-growth area in asia – south and southeast asia in particular. where aids is concerned we face a vicious cycle of infection, incapacity and poverty alongside the 16 million deaths we have already seen: two million deaths a year in africa, a quarter of all africa's deaths. ten per cent of people between fifteen and fifty years of age are living with aids, and there are 10 million orphans. the people who expected to be looked after in their old age are now unable to have that care and support because their children are dead. that is the scene confronting us. when the economist went to zambia and looked at a particular hospital, it saw two-thirds of the patients there dying of aids. people's limbs, they reported, looked like broken broomsticks. when they were asked what they were desperate for, they did not say retroviral drugs, they said food, because they were too poor to be able to afford either. poverty hastens death, and deaths accelerate the survivors' descent into poverty. in zambia the department of health then estimated that half the population would die of aids. that is a human disaster. we are facing human disasters in america now. the world is looking at the headlines, the world is taking action, governments are coming together, people are demanding and subscribing to solutions. but they are not doing that where aids, tb and malaria are concerned. it is not terrorism, but it is a health terror and horror that is preventable. that is why the honourable member's report is so important and fundamental. i congratulate him and the commission on the work that has been done on this matter and everyone who has participated. poverty reduction goes hand in hand with the war against disease, disability and death. we desperately need more resources for drugs and vaccines, but must also ensure their adequate distribution to people, so that drugs do not sit in storage deteriorating. we must have adequate education, monitoring and research. it has rightly been said that research should be conducted in africa, by africans, for africans and, where appropriate, with the support, cooperation and partnership of the western world, along the lines of the iavi initiative between oxford and nairobi. tb too, of course, is a killer. it accounts for two million deaths a year, 95% of them in developing countries; it is the leading cause of hiv deaths; one infected person can pass it on to ten others. malaria is the third killer; 90% of deaths from malaria occur in africa – one death every 30 seconds. in the past four minutes, eight people have died from malaria. i want us and the commissioner to keep those people who are dying of these diseases in mind and see what we can do. the honourable member has provided the words in this report; now it is time for the commission to act. (applause)
mr president, others have established the need for action. i should just like to add one fact: in the uk and europe drugs cocktails have decreased aids deaths by 75%, in sub-saharan africa, where two-thirds of all people infected with hiv live, only one person in a thousand receives drug treatment. education is crucial to prevent people being infected with hiv in the first place, but access to drugs really does make a difference. the drug companies are our partners. but it is crucial that they act with integrity. i will never forget the representative for smithkline beecham sitting in our eu/acp joint assembly in brussels, banging the table and saying that they had lowered the prices of essential medicines. and then later in the year mr nielson was told they were going to lower them all over again. which is the lowest price – the one they told us in the spring, or the one they told us in the autumn? i went to gabon and south africa and met doctors who are desperate to use those drugs, who have read the internet press releases saying that the prices have been brought down; yet when they ring up they cannot actually acquire the drugs to treat those patients. i have asked smithkline beecham what is the genuine, long-term cost of production of these drugs. they will not say. i have asked them how long they will commit themselves to these lower prices. they will not commit themselves. i have asked them why, if they are seeking a partnership with developing country governments, they face legal action, not just in south africa but in india, brazil and elsewhere. they just will not answer. we send a clear message to the drugs companies in this resolution: prices are too high and legislative action, including compulsory licensing in cases of national emergency, is needed to deal with it. finally, to mr khanbhai, it is no good claiming that you are seeking consensus, including ngos for example, and then putting forward your amendment no 1, opposing a reduction in patent protection. name one ngo which supports that position. i will always remember that smithkline beecham's key anti-retroviral drug was not brought onto the market because of privately-funded research. it was publicly-funded research. they used a dormant patent to acquire that protection for their own commercial gain. let us have some clear speaking in this debate. (applause from the left)
commission. – mr president, allow me first of all to express my appreciation for the work of the rapporteur, mr khanbhai. in the eight months since the commission adopted an ambitious programme for action targeting the major communicable diseases, a number of events have reconfirmed the need for action, for the global mobilisation of efforts and financing, and for the political will to achieve our aims. health is fully on our agenda now, and the same is true of our own member states. health in developing countries is, together with education, one of the six priorities for the commission for 2002. investing in health is a key strategy for economic development and poverty reduction, and hence a crucial component of a sound development strategy. i wish to highlight and express my strong agreement with the remarks made by mrs korhola and mr bowis on the need to organise basic health care in a manner that actually works. in this regard we should bear in mind that annual per capita spending on public health services in sub-saharan africa is between usd 2 and usd 6. this is the economic framework before us. reconciling the low capacity of health systems with, in particular, care and work on administering anti-retroviral drugs to aids and hiv-positive patients is an extremely difficult task. i should like to mention one case that illustrates this. in botswana usd 100 million has been mobilised jointly by merck, one of the big pharmaceutical companies, and the bill gates foundation. they are doing everything they can to organise their work on the ground and use these advanced types of medicine in ongoing treatment. their experience is that very little has been possible. the absence of infrastructure in this area, of educated nurses and of the conditions required for these types of advanced medicine, which are very difficult to administer, to work, shows that even concentrated, well-funded efforts spanning one-and-a-half years in a place that is better organised than most others in africa has not done the trick. this is also why the pharmaceutical companies are warning against highlighting too uncritically the use of anti-retroviral drugs as the solution. that warning has to be taken seriously. our programme for action has been moving forward. we are speeding up the actual disbursement rate in the field of health. i would not go as far as to express satisfaction at this, but the situation is improving. we are disbanding dormant projects and improving projects that need to be improved. all this work is taking place. now a few remarks on financial allocations. firstly, i appreciate the remarks made today by mr khanbhai concerning the mechanics of how we allocate this money. we would like to get away from input-related targets. they are advantageous in being easier to communicate regularly; however, we are seeking to focus on output and processes rather than on input. an important aspect of this debate is the fact that the budget does not reveal directly how much we are actually doing in areas such as health and education. it must be borne in mind that macroeconomic support, our budget support, is in fact linked to health and education. that link provides the answer as to how much – or how little – we are doing. at present it is extremely difficult to quantify this specifically but we are working on this. mr khanbhai also referred to a change relating to the import of drugs and the need to abolish tariffs in this regard. this is definitely something that must be done. it should be borne in mind that liberalisation on a regional basis, which we are urging our partners to move forward on, is also an answer to this problem. furthermore it can solve the problem of creating a better basis for starting up medicine production in developing countries. if you cannot access a neighbouring market from a given african country investing there in order to do something in this area is not a good idea. the question of access to medicines, an issue brought up by many, is currently being discussed at the trips council in geneva. the discussions have sought to strike a balance between the need to pursue access to affordable medicines and the implementation of the trips agreement. a declaration for the ministerial meeting in doha is now being prepared. may i state most clearly that the ec has no intention of applying pressure on or criticising developing countries that invoke their rights under the trips agreement. it is in the interest of all wto members that the trips provisions be clear, so as to provide for lawful and correct implementation of the agreement. as to paragraph 41 on mr khanbhai's report, the current review process within the trips council of certain provisions does not include the patent periods, nor the so-called "ever-greening" of patents mentioned in the report. it is not the opinion of the commission that the patent period needs to be amended. on the second issue, "ever-greening", there are no provisions in the trips agreement that could be applied here. the substance and level of invention for the granting of a patent is evaluated by national patent authorities. allow me to make a few remarks on the other paragraphs. ninety-five percent of drugs listed as essential drugs by who are off patents and may be produced freely. the remaining 5% are drugs patented in most countries. it is the commission's view that compulsory licenses should be issued in accordance with the rules laid down in article 31 of the trips agreement. tiered pricing, in the sense that pharmaceutical companies voluntarily offer their products at heavily discounted prices to developing poor markets, is something the commission strongly supports. it was one of the sticking points in the discussion of the guidelines for the health fund. we are working towards a global system of tiered pricing that will supply markets on a sustainable basis. supplying poor markets at the lowest possible prices should be the rule. this should comprise all essential and key medicines. of course, if large quantities of tiered price products are exported to developing countries, the risk of trade diversion becomes high. therefore we are considering stronger measures to prevent the re-importation of tiered-price products into the community. in paragraph 38 the report calls for the establishment of a fund for infectious diseases. you will all be aware that this global aids and health fund was launched by the un secretary-general at the special session on hiv/aids in june. on behalf of the commission president prodi pledged eur 120 million to the fund. total contributions have now reached usd 1.8 billion. we are actively involved in working out the operational modalities for the fund, its governance, legal basis and its focus. i agree with what a few of the speakers said concerning the situation of women. the whole agenda concerning reproductive and sexual health and rights needs to be kept in mind whenever we discuss these issues. mrs sandbæk mentioned the issue of testing. i want to clarify that we are working on testing in africa ... (the president called for order to allow the speaker to be heard )i feel confident that those members who really want to hear what i have to say are definitely trying to do so. i thank them from the bottom of my heart. concerning the activity of the commission in the area of research, the reality is that we are proving quite successful in the attempt to organise a big africa-focused network and to carry out testing as part of the whole research and development process. this is progressing quite well. the subject of the global aids and health fund was touched upon by many speakers. i want to give some additional information here. we are involved in discussions on the modalities of the fund and there are still a few differences that need to be resolved. they concern the balance between prevention and care, especially in relation to hiv/aids. they concern the question to what extent the fund should supply anti-retrovirals, whether the fund should also cover research activities, the structure of tendering in the fund, and its focus in terms of geography. many issues are therefore, being discussed now. as a background to this discussion we also note that there is a section within the ngo community that sees the fund as a distraction from longer-term development processes, in particular support for strengthening the health systems. in my view, these words of warning have to be taken seriously. there are still many questions to resolve before it becomes clear what real added value the fund will create, especially in the most important area of improving delivery on the ground, which is still the biggest challenge. i thank the rapporteur, mr khanbai. we look forward to working – as we have done until now – hand-in-hand with parliament and keeping up the pressure to move this agenda forward. (applause)
mr president, on a point of order, when the commissioner quotes the who essential medicines' list he knows that includes not just essential medicines, but the affordability of those medicines. therefore, the very medicines we are discussing are excluded from the list in question.
president, as a rights holder i have a financial interest in television. i will not partake in the vote today. (applause)
madam president, there is a mistake in the spanish text, paragraph 6, with reference to the word 'parents', which should come before primary and secondary schoolteachers. i hope that translation will be corrected in the spanish text. although there is widespread support for some other oral amendments which i was going to make, i understand there is opposition from the greens so the only oral amendment that i wish to make now concerns paragraph 14. there is a genuine error and it should be amended to read, 'calls on all developing countries to abolish tariffs and taxes on import of essential drugs and equipment in order to make healthcare more affordable.' there is no tax when we export medicines from europe or the united states, so the current paragraph is factually incorrect. i hope members will support this.
in writing. - i abstained in the final vote because, while i support the principle underlying this regulation, i cannot accept the inclusion of annex 1. this regulation deals with international terrorism in general and does not deal specifically with the events of 9/11. it therefore seems quite wrong to include this annex which refers only to individuals and organisations which appear to be exclusively from the muslim community. i am also concerned that the evidence against the persons and organisations listed in this annex has not been seen by the european parliamentarians and that we have therefore not been able to reach an informed decision as to their possible guilt.
in writing. - the european parliament has been called upon to take urgent and decisive action to freeze assets that could be used by terrorists. we have responded to that challenge and in doing so have brought in essential amendments to protect the freedoms of the innocent. i am proud of the amendment which requires action to be taken to provide details which will enable the actual identification of the persons listed in the annex. it would be absurd to use a list of names that could refer, in an ambiguous way, to thousands of people in the muslim world, mixing the guilty with the innocent. the council of ministers has asked for swift and decisive action. we have responded to his request and stressed the need for safeguards which are fully compatible with such action. we therefore call on the council to honour its commitments to us and not to delay this matter by drawing up a new version without the legal safeguards.
in writing. - the british conservatives strongly support measures specifically designed to combat terrorism in all its forms. it is in this spirit that we have supported the motion for a resolution and the legislative measures against terrorism adopted by the council. however, we do not support the proposal that the fight against international terrorism should involve a significant increase in the eu's competence in this area or that the eu should be empowered to negotiate agreements on judicial and police cooperation with the usa: these are competencies which are rightly national, given the very different constitutional, judicial and operational traditions of some key member states such as the united kingdom. we do not see the need for a firm response to the recent terrorist attacks in conjunction with the call for intensified efforts to make the european security and defence policy operational. recent events have, on the contrary, underlined the need for a strengthening of transatlantic ties and nato rather than the search for any kind of autonomous european military capacity, which is a source of potential divisions. in addition, we want to ensure that any new anti-terrorism legislation is also used to fight against terrorist organisations which - like the ira (in all its forms) and eta - have been waging terrorist campaigns from and within eu member states for several decades.
- the agenda calls for the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance.
- doc. b5-0617/2001 by mr haarder, on behalf of the eldr group; - b5-0626/2001 by mr pack and mr posselt, on behalf of the group of the european people's party; - b5-0634/2001 by mrs muscardini, on behalf of the uen group; - b5-0643/2001 by mr swoboda and mr wiersma, on behalf of the pse group; - b5-0653/2001 by mrs morgantini, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; - b5-0660/2001 by mr lagendijk and others, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on support for a framework agreement in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
commission. – mr president, the commission fully shares parliament's view that the framework agreement of 13 august is crucial to peace and stability in fyrom and that the macedonian parliament should be urged to adopt the measures recommended under the agreement. commissioner patten and eu high representative solana are in skopje today to underline the importance of, and convey the urgent need for, constitutional changes and a revised law on local self-government, as foreseen under the agreement. we face truly formidable challenges over the next few weeks and months in fyrom. the eu is fully behind the framework agreement and is committed to providing financial assistance, including assistance for emergency aid and for measures in support of the agreement. we have provided over eur 10 m in humanitarian assistance through echo since the crisis began; eur 54.5 m under cards in 2001, which includes a recent top-up of eur 12 m for housing reconstruction, local infrastructure and support for host families; eur 12.8 m under the rapid reaction mechanism to repair and reconstruct houses, to repair electricity and to support confidence-building measures, such as mine clearance, election monitoring and police training; and eur 50 m in macro-financial assistance still to be disbursed from a previous macro-financial package, which is being combined with an additional grant of eur18 m to help fyrom cope with the specific needs arising from the crisis. this assistance is, of course, conditional on an imf agreement with the macedonian government. the commission and the world bank are ready to organise a donor meeting on 15 october, provided that the macedonian parliament adopts the necessary constitutional changes set out in the framework agreement. it is not an overstatement to say that the effective delivery of eu assistance could be critical to the success of the framework agreement and, therefore, to peace. our paramount concern is to ensure that we act quickly and flexibly. we have therefore decided to propose an extension of the european agency for reconstruction, which has an excellent track record in delivering assistance throughout the federal republic of yugoslavia. the agency has people on the ground and direct experience in the region, notably in the sort of emergency reconstruction that we will need to deliver in fyrom this autumn, as well as in longer-term assistance of the type it is now overseeing, for example in serbia. we therefore urge parliament to give positive consideration to our proposal to extend the mandate of the agency. beyond the framework agreement, we are determined to pursue a strategy of closer integration of fyrom into the european mainstream, simply, first of all, by implementing the new stabilisation and association agreement signed in april. a lot has to be done in this area and fyrom must demonstrate that it can live up to international standards by respecting minority rights and show that its democratic structures are stable enough for it to pursue its path towards european integration – in simple terms, to become a member of the european family.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
- the following motions for resolutions are requested for joint debate: united nations: world day for the abolition of poverty - b5-0616/2001 by mr lannoye and others, on behalf of the green group; - b5-0619/2001 by mr van den bos, on behalf of the eldr group; - b5-0627/2001 by mrs hermange, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in the democratic republic of congo; - b5-0635/2001 by mr ribeiro e castro, on behalf of the uen group; - b5-0644/2001 by mr hughes and others, on behalf of the pse group; - b5-0654/2001 by mrs figueiredo and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; the european union is also committed to the promotion of the development of the european union. b5-0620/2001 by mr maaten, on behalf of the eldr group; - b5-0623/2001 by mr dupuis and others, on behalf of the tdi group; - b5-0628/2001 by mr nassauer and mr posselt, on behalf of the group of the european people's party; - b5-0636/2001 by mr segni, on behalf of the uen group; - b5-0646/2001 by mr van den berg, on behalf of the pse group; - b5-0658/2001 by mrs mckenna, on behalf of the green group; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the violation of human rights in the socialist republic of vietnam. b5-0621/2001 by mr haarder, on behalf of the eldr group; - b5-0629/2001 by mr bowis and mr posselt, on behalf of the group of the european people's party; - b5-0637/2001 by mrs muscardini, on behalf of the uen group; - b5-0647/2001 by mr swoboda and others, on behalf of the pse group; - b5-0662/2001 by mr staes, on behalf of the green group; on the health situation in the republic of uzbekistan. b5-0625/2001 by mrs figueiredo and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; - b5-0631/2001 by mr costa neves and mr coelho, on behalf of the group of the european people's party; - b5-0640/2001 by mr queiró and mr ribeiro e castro, on behalf of the uen group; - b5-0648/2001 by mr kreissl-dörfler and others, on behalf of the pse group; - b5-0652/2001 by mrs figueiredo and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; the commission has already b5-0632/2001 by mr salafranca sánchez-neyra and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in the democratic republic of congo; - b5-0642/2001 by mrs muscardini, on behalf of the uen group; - b5-0645/2001 by mr medina ortega and others, on behalf of the pse group; - b5-0655/2001 by mr marset campos and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; - b5-0659/2001 by mr lipietz and others, on behalf of the green group; the situation in colombia. the un: world day against poverty
mr president, uzbekistan, the land of bukhara and samarkand is now in our thoughts as the border country of afghanistan with taliban-linked extremists operating in its territory. we acknowledge that there are human rights problems in that country to be tackled, but we welcome its partnership in the fight against terrorism. yet not many of us are aware of the other crisis in uzbekistan. reporters report on the problem and potential problem of refugees in the area. they do not report on the 13 million people affected by one of the worst droughts in history in the area, that started in the spring of last year. they do not report that six million children under 14 are affected. they do not report that drinking water and irrigation water is in desperately short supply, that most of the crops in the affected areas have failed, that poor-quality drinking water and sanitation problems have resulted in one of the highest levels of ill health in the region. they do not report that only 54% of the people in urban areas in uzbekistan have access to sewage networks, or that only 3% in rural areas have such access. as a result, parasitic infection is rife and the third cause of infant deaths is diarrhoeal disease. malnutrition and poverty have reached crisis point. we need urgent action to supply essential drugs and equipment, to strengthen water-quality control, to support and monitor nutrition programmes, to train health workers and conduct health education programmes. we also need to help the country change from its heavy use of agrochemicals, its diversion of rivers and its poor drainage system. i commend this motion to the house.
mr president, colombia – one of south america's oldest democracies and a country which, unusually for this continent, has not been prone to military dictatorship – is tragically a victim of 37 years of civil war and terrorist activity, which have destroyed infrastructure, killed 40 000 people and corrupted its civil and military authorities through guerrilla involvement with the drugs trade. it seems from the events of 11 september in new york that democracies are particularly vulnerable to terrorism, which has no respect for the ballot box as a way to achieve change in societies. now – and in spite of colombian president pastrana's concession three years ago of a large demilitarised zone the size of switzerland, where 17 000 of its guerrillas roam at will – the farc, instead of pursuing a legitimate, peacefully negotiated settlement, continues its policy of kidnapping and murdering civilians. last sunday it killed the much-loved former culture minister, consuelo araujo noguera, and on tuesday congressman octavio sarmiento. i am sure that this house will join me in sending a message of condolence to their grieving families. pastrana's policy of granting concessions to the farc, labelled a terrorist organisation by the usa, has remarkable parallels with the policy of britain's tony blair of granting early release to ira killers without a prior insistence on the arms decommissioning to which they had already agreed. curiously, three ira suspects are currently under arrest in colombia for advising the farc on how to conduct murderous campaigns, on which, as we know, the ira is an expert. i do not have a clear answer to president pastrana's dilemma, as only 18% of colombians in a recent poll supported suspending peace talks, scrapping the demilitarised zone and resuming full-blown civil war. only the colombian government can decide what is best for the future of its country and what price it is prepared to pay to achieve peace. nevertheless, i am sure that, as well as supporting this resolution, this house will join me in praying for the long-suffering people of colombia and in hoping sincerely that the farc and the guerrillas will see the folly of their evil ways and that the colombian government will achieve a policy of reconciliation without compromising justice or freedom.
commission. – mr president, like the honourable members of parliament the commission welcomes what could be called the positive developments that have occurred in burma/myanmar, in particular the on-going talks between aung san suu kyi and the ruling spdc, the release of a growing number of political prisoners and the reopening of 20 party offices of the national league for democracy. this said, it has to be acknowledged that the improvement in the political climate in the last year is clearly only the beginning of a process which now should be further deepened. thus, we still need to see a clear move towards a process of constructive dialogue and achieving respect for internationally accepted standards of human rights. we have no guarantee of irreversibility in this respect, so we have to be cautious and we have carefully noted the advice given by members in this debate. we should encourage the government to continue this progress by fully responding to the concerns of the international community, as articulated by the united nations special envoy, mr razali. at this stage, it is very important to strike a careful balance between recognising the progress achieved so far and maintaining a firm pressure for continued efforts, which can pave the way for democratic reforms. i am convinced that members share the commission's hope that the on-going talks will lead to concrete results, which could enable the european union to consider positive measures to support the process. as regards the situation of the ethnic minorities, the commission shares the concerns voiced by members and remains convinced that a lasting political solution in burma/myanmar must be based on agreement between the spdc, the democratically elected "opposition" and representatives of ethnic minorities. all ec humanitarian aid to burma/myanmar is provided through ngos or international agencies. the commission is currently exploring the possibilities of increasing humanitarian aid to burma in full compliance with the terms of the eu's common position on burma/myanmar.
mr president, while mrs thors was speaking the commissioner was interrupted by two different people, so he was not paying attention to what she asked and what she said. it was vitally important to me, as someone trying to learn from this debate, to ascertain the facts of the situation. i was very interested in what mr rothley and mrs thors said as to whether we should even be discussing this issue in this chamber. but mr nielson was otherwise distracted. i would hope that he gives us a proper response when his turn comes to speak.
madam president, in the absence of our chairman, as vice-chairman of the committee on petitions i would point out that our committee requested the report from stoa on the possible toxic effects of sellafield in the irish sea and cap de la hague in the english channel. the petitions committee is as anxious as anybody that this report should be published as soon as possible. it is important that the report, when adopted by stoa, is seen to be absolutely objective and scientifically independent. that is why it has been subjected to independent assessment. when we have considered that assessment i believe all members of this house would want the report to be published. but that should not be done whilst doubts remain – and unfortunately there are doubts – about the objectivity of the report as currently presented to the stoa panel.
madam president, i would like to put on record my disappointment that we will not be able this week to discuss the money-laundering directive. thanks to the hard work of the conciliation committee and those in this house who have been working on this directive, we are on the point of an agreement with the european council, and it is a pity that we were not able to get it on the agenda for this week. this directive is as important in the fight against terrorism as the bombs which are being dropped on afghanistan or the efforts of those who are risking their lives there. it is something that we should deal with as promptly as possible, because starving the terrorist of his funds is just as important as subjecting him to military attack. i hope this house will act swiftly when this matter comes before it at the next plenary session. i am sorry that it was not possible to get it on the agenda for this month. (applause)
madam president, i was not aware that this was going to arise and i apologise therefore to mrs villiers for not being able to talk to her about it earlier. she is quite right to say that agreement has been reached with the council and it is now up to parliament to have the third reading. we pressed extremely hard – and you, madam president, were involved in this – to try and get to a position where we could be flexible and act very rapidly as a parliament. unfortunately, we have to await the documentation that comes from the council in all 11 languages of the community before we actually have council's position formally adopted so that we can come to a conclusion with a third reading. it is therefore, unfortunately, a matter of timing, due to the scheduling of documents and translation etc. that we do not have that flexibility. i did press very hard indeed but unfortunately it was not achievable.
madam president, my group would also have liked to see the money laundering directive approved sooner. we would, indeed, have liked to have seen it wrapped up before the summer holidays. but it was mrs villiers' own group which held out against an obligation on lawyers to report suspicious transactions and therefore held up the final resolution of this matter for six months after our plenary vote in april. i am glad to say that the results of conciliation do not reflect that refusal and lawyers will have to contact the authorities when they have reason to believe their clients may be seeking advice in order to engage in money laundering. i am glad that is the final result. i deeply regret that it took so long. i am afraid it is mrs villiers's own group – indeed her own delegation within that group – which contributed to that lengthened and regrettable delay.
madam president, i would like to raise briefly a matter of serious concern to me, and perhaps to others in this house, relating to the question of discrimination. this house rightly rejects discrimination in all its forms and we receive opinions on this subject from many quarters, including the economic and social committee. it now appears that this committee itself practises discrimination on the grounds of age, in that it is impossible to apply for a job there unless you are younger than 45. madam president, may i suggest that you write to them as a matter of urgency to see whether this is true and, if it is, perhaps to threaten that we will stop receiving their opinions until they abandon such discrimination. surely it should be possible for people to work for any institution at any age, even if they are as old as i am! (applause)
commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at the last plenary session of parliament you discussed the measures to be taken in the fight against terrorism following the attacks of 11 september last. on behalf of my colleague, mrs de palacio, i would like to discuss with you today the consequences of these events for air safety and the implications that such events could have for certain industrial installations, particularly nuclear power stations. so i will begin with air safety. as you are no doubt aware, the european council of 21 september last called for the necessary measures to be taken to improve air safety. the commission reacted promptly by developing an appropriate community response to the attacks in the united states of america. the commission has immediately proposed to the member states, following the request made by the european council, that they set up a system of mutual inspection of the dual review type. this system of mutual control will make it possible to send experts from one member state to inspect the security arrangements at airports in another member state. it should be noted, however, that member states are reluctant to entrust inspectors with this task. to date, only two member states have submitted proposals to the commission for the representatives they wish to appoint. the commission proposed on 10 october a draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council to standardize safety and security standards in air transport within the european union and to give the commission the power of enforcement and inspection to ensure that they are applied. in concrete terms, this text deals with access control to sensitive areas of airports and aircraft, the screening of passengers and their hand luggage, the screening and monitoring of hold baggage, the screening of cargo and mail and, finally, the training of ground staff. mrs de palacio presented this proposal to the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism on the day it was adopted, and we hope that parliament will be able to examine it urgently in order to allow agreement in the council in december, with the hope that co-decision can take place at first reading. in addition, an ad hoc multidisciplinary group of experts on aviation security and counter-terrorism was immediately set up. unfortunately, the work of this group of experts has so far been inconclusive and the preliminary report submitted to the transport council on 16 october last merely stresses that much remains to be done to ensure effective application of security measures at all airports and identifies the need for further measures to prevent dangerous behaviour by certain individuals in aircraft, such as the prohibition of access to the cockpit or the strengthening of cooperation between civil air traffic control and the use of military air defence equipment. we are convinced that we must move forward with the proposals we have put to you. not only because of the lack of concrete recommendations from the group mentioned above, but also because international bodies seem to have difficulty reacting quickly. the international civil aviation organization, which held its assembly last september, confined itself to the principle of organizing a conference, the date of which has not yet been decided. it is hoped that icao will, on the initiative of the european union, take the lead in adopting the recommendations addressed to it with a view to strengthening international safety standards applicable to airports and air transport. however, in view of this situation, the united states naturally decided to go it alone. the commission considers that we need to strengthen cooperation so that prevention measures are implemented in a coordinated manner on both sides of the atlantic.
we on this side whole-heartedly support the response of the united states, the european union and its member states and other countries to the attacks of 11 september 2001 and the development of a comprehensive multilateral strategy against terrorism. in recognising the determination of the european union and its member states to safeguard its citizens from acts of terrorism, we stress the need to reassure the public by striking the right balance between vigilance and enabling everyday life to continue. we consider that each member state must carry out a complete reassessment of its approach to the security of infrastructure and installations, particularly the most risk-sensitive such as nuclear installations. we recognise there is genuine public concern about these issues but would like to emphasise the need to keep these matters in perspective. i would like to emphasise that the safety of nuclear plants and other such industrial installations is primarily a national competence and responsibility. in that context we look, for example, to the united kingdom government to take all necessary short-term protective measures as well as to face up to the necessary longer-term decisions with regard to the disposal of radioactive waste. clearly, the events of 11 september 2001 in the united states call for a reassessment of the risk of attack on installations that we have previously regarded as secure and i welcome the statement from the commissioner. i only regret that it was not possible for commissioner loyola de palacio to be able to speak to us – it had been our wish to hold this debate at the next part-session.
president, the basic premise of terrorism is that the unexpected, the unconsidered, the unbelievable will terrify the population into accepting political claims, whether they are rational or not. thank you, commissioner, for your statement. i welcome the cooperation you have outlined and the special attention which will be given to nuclear installations. i hope that member states will cooperate with the commission in this work. our reaction must be to do all that we can to prevent the sort of widespread slaughter, injury and chaos we saw in the united states. air travel, nuclear power stations, chemical works and oil depots, are all obvious targets for terrorists. they are designed, built and protected accordingly at very considerable cost to the public. the french government now protects the reprocessing centre at la hague with fighter planes and missiles. no doubt the united kingdom does likewise in sellafield. we cannot inhabit the weird minds of terrorists, but we can pay the high cost of protection. we can work together and we can be very careful when we consider building, or indeed retaining, a potential target. things will not be the same after 11 september, as many others have said. no one had conceived of using a fully loaded, large passenger plane as a weapon. we have to factor that into our calculations. please keep reporting to parliament. we want the citizens of europe to know that everything possible has been done to keep them safe.
mr president, much as i love senator doyle and her irish friends, she is quite wrong about sellafield in my constituency. i told her so, and the irish government so when i was the northern ireland minister responsible for energy and i reiterate that view now. i applaud the british government's decision on the mox plant, a long overdue decision which is going to ensure the economic and employment future of my constituents. so my message on that is to keep your hands off sellafield. briefly, about aviation. i congratulate commissioner palacio on the actions that she has already taken but there are three things we need to emphasise: firstly we must protect the aircraft on the ground; once someone is on the aircraft they can do more damage. secondly we must renew and reinvigorate security screening at airports and thirdly we must assist with the costs of security and war-risk insurance. we must restore public confidence in aviation and the sooner the better.
mr president, i too should like to congratulate the rapporteur for this. the rapporteur has produced two excellent reports. he makes a first-class contribution to the work of the committee which i have the honour to chair. i would like to talk very briefly about the first of these reports to do with the freedom of movement of people. it is essential that we have a european legal space and that we pursue its development with judicial cooperation in civil matters. the rapporteur quite rightly identifies the problems here and recognises that just as the single market required a massive benchmarking exercise, a massive exercise in approximation and mutual recognition, so too will the development of a european legal space require this. in the second report the rapporteur looks at the problems that have emerged with the schengen information system and the opportunity to move forward to the second version of it, which clearly will be needed with enlargement. we have here, in strasbourg, with the central schengen computer system, the most comprehensive databank in europe. it must be financed from our budget. sadly, the belgian and swedish initiatives, which propose a regulation for the first pillar and a decision for the third pillar, show how ridiculous it is still to be operating with these two pillars. in particular, article 96, which is the article governing the data on those refused entry, must be in the first pillar. it contains the personal details of 1.3 million people and will contain substantially more with enlargement of the union. in conclusion i would draw the house's attention to the report from justice last year that found significant defects in data protection, poor quality of data and obstacles placed in the way of individuals seeking to correct mistakes. we must take account of this.
draftsman of the opinion for the committee on petitions. – mr president, we would like to thank mrs korhola for her work on this complex document. in the committee on petitions we have a large number of petitions which relate to the particular directives concerned in this important report. it is very clear to us that the public want to be involved, they want to be informed and they want information in good time about particular proposals. we often hear complaints from the public about the lack of information, that it comes late, it is incomplete, it is difficult to understand. we have often found through those petitions that there are a number of member states that have very poorly applied the directives which are mentioned here and we have seen court cases resulting from that. our committee was extremely clear. we want the widest possible definition of "public". we have found in the issues raised with us that it is not just environmental ngos, or people living in an area that is directly affected. we have come across small businesses, fishermen and others who have felt that particular schemes affect them and therefore they are interested parties. we also thought it was important that the area of policy should be looked at as well, because one of the questions we often get is "what is the context of a particular development going ahead?", particularly where that is linked at times to european union policy, such as cap spending and spending on the structural funds. we also find that people want access to resources in order to be able to understand the information they are given. sometimes we find complaints come to our committee effectively to have those environmental impact assessments assessed, because those organisations lack the resources to fully participate within the planning process and it is vital that we look at that, certainly at member state level.
may i congratulate the rapporteur on this important report – a crucial element of which is the definition of participation, ensuring that people can influence plans and programmes at different stages of the process and receive proper feedback so that they know that the issues they have raised have been dealt with seriously. it is essential that consultation is not restricted in a way that in practice would make it meaningless – in other words, that authorities themselves could define the people who would be affected and they would be the only ones consulted. i have a case in swansea in my own constituency where a local authority is building an incinerator on the border of two counties and has consulted its own constituents, but not the people of the other county who live closer to it and who will be more affected and are now protesting vigorously against the plans. this legislation could prevent that kind of situation arising. just as important it gives the public access to a review procedure, and so i ask for support for the amendments of my group which seek to strengthen the report in line with the aarhus convention.
i just wish to say on behalf of the liberal group that i very much hope mr goebbels and his colleagues will withdraw their amendment. we do not believe that the amendment insisting on call-back is appropriate to this particular piece of legislation, which my colleague olle schmidt has described as being very carefully balanced after the common position of the council. nor is it appropriate in the context of the ongoing discussions over lamfalussy. indeed, i would go as far to say that by insisting on call-back, which was not a phrase which appeared in parliament's second resolution on this subject after the stockholm council, we risk calling into question our bona fides in the lengthy negotiations which some of us have undertaken with mr bolkestein. i very much hope, therefore, that the people who have put forward this amendment will withdraw it, and that discussions will take place in an appropriate place. we should not try to call into question this piece of legislation. i believe it should be put through as is.
i too very much hope that mr goebbels is going to withdraw amendment no 4. you want call-back, mr goebbels, i want call-back and so does mr bolkestein. the fact remains that it is not feasible to have a legal call-back within the terms of the treaty. therefore, it is up to us to find a political agreement and a form of words which will do until 2004 when we can review this whole issue. indeed i believe the commission is committed to such a review. it is vitally important that we come to this agreement. on mr schmidt's report, it is excellent to see the modernisation of the framework for ucits by the inclusion of derivatives and otc derivatives. parliament is leading the way on this, and mr schmidt has played a particularly successful role in updating the directives in this way and very much led the way on the derivatives issue. i am sorry to see the capital requirements in the form that they are. i believe that ucits managers should be subject to capital requirements, but i do not believe those contained in the directive are sufficiently risk-sensitive. i do not believe that they are consistent with the general framework that we hope to implement. i do not think that assessing capital according to risk under management actually reflects the risk undertaken. i am also concerned that this formulation of the directive will produce an uneven market opening, leaving the market closed in one member state and open in the other 14. but i have been persuaded by the rapporteur and our esteemed shadow rapporteur not to table amendments on these defects because we are very keen to get these two directives on the statute book to modernise the framework for a unit trust and ucits in the european union. i commend the directive to the house.
mr president, i refer to the common position on directive 1998/242 and the capital requirements that it will impose on investment management firms. in scotland, there is a long tradition of investment management going back to the opening of the american west in the 19th century. these investment managers were usually law firms, private partnerships, which managed the assets of their clients very successfully. to this day, there are investment firms of this type, private partnerships, sole proprietorships and other structures with limited capital. the interests of clients are fully safeguarded as their assets are held by independent and fully capitalised and regulated depositories. it is largely irrelevant to set capital requirements on the investment management firms themselves. i am relieved that the council has reduced slightly the capital requirements set by this parliament at first reading and has set a top limit of eur 10 million. but this is still substantial for private partnerships and sole proprietorships. incidentally, the largest and most successful firms in america and in the world – fidelity is a good example – are exactly of this type. the requirements of this type will be a hurdle for new enterprising entrants into an industry which requires a regular injection of new blood. at the very least, it should provide for this capital to be available by means of guarantees from banks or by insurance policies to cover professional and operational risk. but the common position, for some not very apparent reason, restricts such cover to only 50% of the requirement. why? the common position provides for the commission to report on this matter within five years of entry into force of the directive. i should like to put on record now the request that such a report should specifically consider whether any capital requirement at all is necessary for investment management companies, and certainly that it should be greatly reduced.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report. we, in the liberal group, welcome the thrust of the report, because it grapples with the real issues and it avoids the sort of populist solutions which, i am afraid, are on offer in many of the amendments before this house. i am particularly thinking of the tobin tax. it is, of course, the case that nobody, particularly liberals in favour of free inquiry, could object to the commission's study on this subject. but i frankly believe that this is a false promise which really offers very little practical benefit to the countries that we are all, i hope, trying to help. instead, the report quite correctly identifies as a potential model, the chilean deposit system, which introduces an incentive for investors to invest long-term in an emerging market rather than going for short term paper because that involves a longer-term investment for depositors. that is the right way to go, and therefore i very much congratulate the rapporteur and hope that we will not support the amendments to an excellent report.
mr president, colleagues will have read in some of this morning's newspapers about the refusal of the republic of france to recognise the extraterritorial status of the european parliament. apparently, the french government has refused to issue a visa to the president of the republic of china to allow him to come to parliament for a meeting. this is a denial of our status as a supranational parliament, and i hope that you will be protesting to the french government about the fact that mr chen has not been allowed a visa. . . (applause) –. . . and insisting that we, in the european union, should be recognising a country which has existed as a flourishing parliamentary democracy for some 14 years and the status it must have in a world in which democracies must work together. (applause)
mr president, i do not speak for my group on this matter, but i want to congratulate mrs ghilardotti for her hard work in making this directive a reality. we hope this directive will develop into a new partnership between workers and management and strengthen dialogue. that, in turn, will improve flexibility and productivity. we have a directive which is essentially a two-way street. it must make sense for workers in retail, service and manufacturing industries not to learn about their future through the media, but to work within a positive consultation mechanism making them aware of what will happen to them and their families. the question is whether existing laws work well. there is plenty of evidence that they do not. workers in my own country at rover/bmw, marks & spencers, in longbridge, at corus and vauxhall – the list is endless – would all benefit from this directive. the directive is essentially about the future of work, not the past. when closure is inevitable for companies with more than 50 workers, we want to see information and consultation, so that workers are informed, leading to a better level of trust within companies. we need realistic thresholds to allow the directive to work well. in discussions with trade unions and business, it is clear that companies need to be made aware of their responsibilities. the responsibilities work both ways. colleagues, information and consultation has been a very difficult directive. there have been a number of compromise amendments. we are very happy with the way in which those discussions have progressed. it is clear that some member states will continue to have problems with certain aspects of this directive. we must work together to ensure that in conciliation we reach the stage where information and consultation are embraced by both sides of business and industry. (applause)
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work on this report. i am one of the members who has spoken in this house previously regretting the fact that we did not have the kind of legislation that we are discussing today. i know that myself, along with several other colleagues, have been in the very unfortunate position of representing constituents who have suffered the very worst examples of the lack of consultation and the lack of information. workers who have learned of job losses in the press and media when there has been speculation and uncertainty in the workplace. i only have to mention what happened with corus in wales earlier this year for you to see why i attach such importance to this particular piece of legislation. i am therefore particularly pleased to have the opportunity to welcome this proposal which will change things. it will mean that employees will be involved in discussions when there really is still an opportunity to influence the debate and the outcome, not when the decision is more or less a fait accompli. employees would have to be given all the relevant facts. while certain measures are needed to protect a company's commercial interests, my group believes that these are adequately covered. the ability to impose sanctions is one of the most important aspects of this report, including the suspension of decisions which lead to job losses if the consultation guidelines have not been followed. voluntary agreements are not enough. we often hear about good examples of voluntary agreements. i applaud those companies that follow good practice, but many do not. we have seen that time and time again especially in wales and britain where we have had no legislation on information and consultation to date. i am very pleased that there has at last been progress on this crucial matter. i believe, as others have said, that we cannot wait too long for this to come into effect which is why i support the shorter transition period. this proposal, of course, would not prevent job losses, but it would allow enough time to ensure that plans for rescaling and retraining of workforces could be well advanced before closures or redundancies take place. this is an issue of the effectiveness of companies and businesses. it should be a part of the everyday work of companies and businesses. it is also about dignity in the workplace. employees are an integral part of the partnership with management and must be kept informed on decisions which affect not only their lives, but those of their families and whole communities.
like my colleagues in the uk conservative delegation, i have consistently supported the principle and the practice of employee information and consultation. in my previous job as managing director of a large uk food manufacturing company, i was very proud to lead the first such company in the whole of the west midlands region to achievement of the coveted investors people award. as has already been mentioned, earlier this month i hosted a lunch debate in brussels with the involvement and participation association for my fellow members of the committee on employment and social affairs to share with them uk best practice and the benefits of flexibility, because that is the issue. the common position as it stands is fine, which is why i personally did not put forward any amendments to that, but the committee amendments propose yet another one-size fits-all straitjacket which would be highly damaging to managers' ability to manage and in particular to their ability to manage rapid change. if companies are held back from taking the key decisions necessary perhaps for the very survival of those businesses, their problems will get worse, which means that more employees could suffer. the uk government has asked all uk meps from all political parties to vote down all these amendments and to support the common position. conservative meps will do exactly that, so i now call upon uk labour meps to reverse the position they all took in committee when they supported these amendments and to vote with us in the interests of employment and in the interests of the nation.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs thorning-schmidt, for the tremendous grasp she has demonstrated of this highly technical subject both in committee and in plenary. my father and his brothers and, in fact, all the male members of my family worked in the coalmines in the northeast of england and most of them have received compensation for both industrial white finger, which is caused by hand-arm vibration, and industrial deafness. this proposal concerning physical agents is a very real proposal to me. vibration has been a major problem in the past. but it still is, and that is demonstrated by the very strenuous lobbying on all members of this house from various sectors of industry in relation to this proposal. i would like to echo what the rapporteur has said about the other elements of the original physical agents' directive. noise, the original directive of 1986, was due to be reviewed in 1991. here we are, ten years later, and no revision to the existing legislation on noise has been made. on optical radiation, industrial lasers were in their infancy when the original proposal was brought forward. they are now in widespread use and we need to update or introduce law at european level on that subject in regard to fields and waves. we are increasingly bombarded by fields and waves of all types and all intensities in our homes and workplaces. that is set to increase radically as a result of developments such as the new bluetooth standard. all of those outstanding elements are becoming increasingly urgent, and i hope the commission will continue its good work to break the impasse that has so far existed inside the council. the rapporteur has introduced a number of important amendments in her report, but probably among the most important is amendment no 2 concerning whole-body vibration. amendment no 2 represents a compromise, it lies between the commission's original proposal and the common position, and i hope it will receive the support of the house. we have received strenuous lobbying, particularly on whole-body vibration. there is general consensus on the need to act on hand-arm vibration, but industrial lobbyists have worked hard to convince members that there is no link between whole-body vibration and injury. i know for a fact that the commission has at least 17 box-files of evidence showing causality between exposure to whole-body vibration and injury. the difficulty is in untangling what proportion of the injury is due directly to whole-body vibration and what proportion is due to other factors such as poor ergonomics or bad posture. there is a causal link and there is a need to act. i hope we will see support for the rapporteur on that issue. the rapporteur has also mentioned a compromise to exclude agriculture. it proved necessary to introduce such a compromise; the exclusion would be for five years if it does come to pass. i would have preferred that it did not occur, but it had to happen to secure political consensus here for today's vote. if it is agreed, the commission must not do its usual trick of waiting the full five years before assessing the scientific evidence and bringing forward a proposal. the preparatory work needs to be done to move quickly once that five years has expired. what, then, we are aiming for and will continue to seek to achieve in conciliation, beyond the debate and vote today, is a balance between action levels and limit values which it will be possible for industry to accept and implement but will at the same time drive forward improved engineering to eliminate vibration from new equipment and improve the way in which ergonomic considerations are taken into account. i hope the report will be supported today.
i am going to deal specifically with whole-body vibration. as has already been said, there is evidence that whitefinger can be caused by hand-arm vibration, but i do not believe that there is sufficient evidence that whole body vibration causes tremendous health risks for workers. there is a slight health risk, but even the iso standards say that there is no quantitative health risk, and so without further scientific evidence, i think it would be crazy for us to put more burdens on industry. i am glad that the rapporteur has eventually agreed that we need a compromise on agriculture, so i urge you all to vote for amendment no 11. this would exclude agriculture and forestry for five years and then it would come back to parliament after further research and scientific evidence has been provided. if we do not vote for the compromise in amendment no 11, i believe that the harvest across the whole of the eu will not be able to take place. if we do not vote for it, tractor drivers, for instance, will be able to drive their tractor for between 2 to 4 hours in any 8 hour period and that is if we get the 0.8 m/s2 that the rapporteur is suggesting. even if agriculture and forestry is taken back, we need to go back to the common position of 1.15 m/s2 instead of the 0.8 that the rapporteur is proposing, because if we do not go back to that, other parts of the industry such as engineering, mining, construction will have tremendous problems, so i urge you to make sure that you do not vote to put more restrictions on industry when we do not have a quantitative health risk demonstrated. i hereby beg you not to vote for the rapporteur's position on this and to go back to the common position and vote for amendment no 11 and against amendments nos 2, 4, 12 and 9.
mr president, in my two years in this parliament i have never received such a barrage of letters of complaint as i have about this report. i am talking particularly about whole-body vibration aspects, rather than hand and arm vibration. these comments are not just from employers, large and small, in farming, quarrying, mining, engineering and construction businesses – to name but a few – who are rightly concerned about the very viability of their entire industries under these proposals. they are also from ordinary employees concerned about their jobs if the rapporteur's amendments go through. recently published and well-respected scientific work from germany, italy and the uk, as well as the rapporteur's own country of denmark, shows no direct quantifiable link between whole-body vibration and back pain. i note that mr hughes maintains otherwise; not for the first time his own government disagrees with him. the above comments from constituents have two things in common: their anger that socialist meps should be proposing such amendments in the first place, and their sheer disbelief that such meps could be so out of touch with reality. let me be clear. the above comments are nothing to do with health and safety, issues which all of us recognise as important. they are everything to do with the rapporteur jumping to conclusions that are not supported by specific scientific evidence. the uk government is strongly opposed to the rapporteur's proposed amendments which, it maintains, would damage industry and agriculture for no benefit. uk conservative meps agree, and we urge the uk labour meps, who supported this report so resolutely in committee, now to support the common position, and meanwhile to support our compromise, tabled jointly by a number of political groups. i urge you all to join us in voting for sound science and sound sense.
mr president, this is really one of the worst pieces of legislation i have seen in this parliament. the benefits it offers are vague and speculative – they are unproven and unquantified, but the costs are real, immediate and massive. credible estimates suggest that the costs of implementation in the uk alone could range between eur 15 and 30 billion. the effects will reach into a wide-range of industries – not only agriculture, but road haulage, construction and many other areas. i have been contacted by an exceptionally wide-range of business organisations and they are universally opposed to the measure and especially to those amendments which would make it even more repressive. those organisations include: the confederation of british industry, the national farmers' union, the road haulage association, the quarrying association, the coal industry and jcb, the heavy equipment manufacturer. it appears that the limit set by the directive would restrict a truck driver to six hours work, a tractor driver to two or three hours and a brush cutter to 15 minutes. this will do huge damage to european economies. it will cost jobs. it has been pointed out that the average jogger exceeds the limit by a factor of 7 or 8, while even walking down a road could break the rules. i suspect that i was over the limit on monday on the bus from basle airport to strasbourg! the directive also places huge new costs and administrative burdens on industry in terms of measuring vibration levels and recording exposure. there is a crying need, mr president, for proper regulatory impact assessments to be applied to european legislative proposals. if that had been done in this case, it would never have got this far. any possible benefits are far outweighed by the costs. it appears that we cannot reject the whole proposal, but i appeal to colleagues to support amendments which would soften it and to reject amendments which would make it even more disastrous than it already is.
commission. – mr president, on behalf of the commission i would like to congratulate mrs thorning-schmidt for her excellent report particularly because it is such a difficult technical issue: it is not only that is a difficult dossier, but it has been before the council since 1994 and only now are things on the move. i consider that this legislation on vibrations will be a fundamental step to achieving better protection of the health and safety of workers exposed to risks arising from physical agents, but of course, we have to take into account the economic impact, the impact in the enterprises – the small, medium and large. that is why we propose a step-by-step approach. we cannot forget that a considerable number of workers suffer from the effects of their exposure to vibrations, notably neurological, vascular and musculo-skeletal disorders. this is a particularly serious problem which is costly for business and society and which, more importantly, causes suffering for the people directly involved as well as for their families, and when we discuss costs, we must calculate the cost that enterprises have because of the health problems of their workers. on your amendments, the commission has worked very hard to maintain a high level of protection while, at the same time, ensuring that a compromise could be reached. although we consider that lower values more in line with the amended proposal would be more appropriate, we have accepted the council's common position with a view to achieving a global compromise. the common position increases the exposure limit values and exposure action values for the whole-body vibrations and introduces new provisions on transitional periods for existing work equipment in general and for equipment used in the agricultural and forestry sectors in particular. for reasons of consistency, the commission cannot therefore accept amendment no 2, which decreases the exposure values for whole-body vibrations in the common position, nor the part of amendment no 5 which reduces the length of the transitional periods. however, the last part of amendment no 5 would be acceptable if slightly redrafted. similarly, the commission cannot accept amendments nos 8 and 12 because they merely restate the principles of the employer's responsibility already contained in the framework directive without additional added value, nor amendments nos 9 and 13 since they either remove the possibility for member states to grant derogations on whole-body vibrations in case of seasonal work or simply allow for the averaging of exposures which is already considered by the iso standards to which the directive refers. the commission cannot accept amendment no 11 for both technical and political reasons. although the commission agrees with the principles behind the changes proposed by amendment no 1, we can only agree with the first part but we cannot accept the second part which foresees the commitment of both the european parliament and the council to continue with the adoption of other parts of the original physical agents proposal. this is not a question of political disagreement. this part of the recital contravenes the rule that the recitals 'shall not contain normative provisions or political exhortations'. i accept amendments nos 3, 4 and 7. these amendments clearly improve and clarify the text. i regret that i have to reject amendment no 6 as it stands. nevertheless, i could accept the idea of justifications to be provided by member states on any transitional periods or derogations granted by them. this should however be integrated in article 14 (1). finally, let me remind you that the step-by-step approach we have used, starting with vibrations, implies that we should now push ahead with the remaining three physical agents included in the commission's original proposal: noise, electromagnetic fields and optical radiation. to conclude, the commission can accept in full amendments nos 3, 4 and 7. it can accept in part amendments nos 1, 5 and 6 and it rejects amendments nos 2, 8, 9, 11, 12 and 13.
mr president, i wanted to ask you about the decision of the bureau that was taken last night on the issue of a staff regulation. i want to know on what basis that decision was taken. i think that the house should be reminded that when the present commission was accepted, it was accepted on the basis of the need for radical reform. a decision was taken by the bureau last night to adopt a rather more cautious approach than the one that has been adopted in plenary, but we did not want as in the past, we wanted a radical overhaul. i wish to know why the bureau has gone against the spirit of what was accepted in the plenary both on the van hulten report and on the harbour report and why, given the critical importance and interinstitutional nature of this issue, the vice-president for reform, commissioner kinnock, was not invited to speak at that meeting. could you, mr president, give me an assurance that the bureau will look at this again and also invite the vice-president of the commission to speak to the bureau in order to amend the letter that was agreed last night? (applause)
- i was at the bureau meeting last night, and as far as i know, the bureau hasn't made a final decision. he has decided to write to mr prodi and therefore discussions on the subject are still ongoing.
at the last part-session, i raised under points of order, this whole question and asked the presidency to give this house a comprehensive report about the state of reform discussions as soon as possible. so far, we have not had this report and i emphasise here the concerns of my colleague mrs morgan. in my report, that was passed by a very big majority in this house, we set the linear career structure on merit as the centre-piece of the reform. but it appears from comments being made by one of the vice-presidents of this parliament in the newspapers and not to this house, that the whole issue is now not regarded as important by the bureau. i hope i have the support of all colleagues in the house in saying that we still consider this the centre-piece of the reforms and we do not see any reason why parliament should not follow a similar line to that being taken by the commission in this crucial area. (applause)
- the remark you and mrs morgan made will be raised again at the bureau meeting. i can assure you that it will be duly taken into account.
mr president, can we take that as an assurance that no letter will be sent until the bureau has met again on thursday, because that is what i think the house would like to hear?
- i can't tell you what happened to the letter. i'm guessing it's already been sent, so i can't say it won't be sent. however, this question will be fully discussed when the bureau meets again tomorrow.
mr president, can i just object to the fact that the thorning-schmidt report and the ghilardotti report are going to be voted on immediately after the debate? some groups have not had a chance to look at the ghilardotti report in particular and to debate them. can we at least, if this happens in the future, have far more warning? we only heard last night that this was about to happen when it was too late for us to do anything about it. (applause)
- this report has been scheduled for today since the agenda was set. we have a lot of complaints in the press because we do not vote quickly enough after the debates. that is why we must strike a balance.
- it is obvious that each member is entitled to vote as he sees fit. you are right to mention rule 114. the committee has asked that this be referred to parliament. the situation is now as follows: the conference of presidents has agreed to include this on parliament's agenda at the request of the committee. the vote will continue. (parliament adopted the nine resolutions by successive votes)
- i am sorry to interrupt you, mr rapporteur, but it is not appropriate for a rapporteur to start a speech before we have voted. if you have anything pertinent to say about the vote, we'll listen. however, if this is not a question of voting procedure, i would like to say that as rapporteur you have already had the opportunity to comment on the substance of the debate.
- voting is closed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive.
in writing. - i am generally pleased with the outcome of the vote, although i would have liked more members to have supported the amendments on penalties for companies which do not implement the requirements of the directive. however, there is no doubt that the measures adopted by parliament will make a significant difference to many workers across the eu. i hope that through the stricter definitions of the information requirements and the proposal for a deferral for full consultation in the light of the mass layoffs and other potentially harmful changes that are being proposed, we will avoid workers calling on this parliament to protect their rights and interests. i also welcome the fact that parliament is insisting that all member states implement this directive swiftly, regardless of the current state of workers' representation. i hope that the council will now follow parliament's lead.
in writing. - i wholeheartedly support mrs jensen's report. the call for increased eu funding for job creation comes at a time when the eu is trying to coordinate its employment strategies through the so-called open method of coordination. this fund could contribute to a large extent to support these efforts and consolidate the work under way since the lisbon dot.com summit. in addition, the report also recognises the strong and useful role that local and regional authorities can play in the job creation process. only if we cooperate with such authorities, who have a crucial and profound knowledge of the needs and particularities of regional employment, will we be able to reap the potential benefits outlined in this report.
in writing. - i welcome this initiative and was very happy to support many of the amendments and the report itself in the final vote. i deeply regret that parliament is not prepared to give the widest possible public access to such decisions. the willingness of the largest groups to continue restricting access to 'persons concerned', to be defined by the member states, is a sure way of making certain people deeply unhappy with the feeling of being marginalised. we have at least succeeded in supporting the rapporteur's proposal to define what 'persons concerned' could be. we were also able to argue that the relevant authorities should provide some answers to show that the concerns of the people concerned have been heard. however, it has often been complained that objections have been raised but not followed up. parliament has allowed itself little room for manoeuvre in future negotiations with the council. i therefore hope that we will maintain the limited progress that has been made today.
in writing. - i wholeheartedly support mrs korhola's report. at a time when many citizens from all walks of life feel disenfranchised and marginalized, the call for public participation in the development of certain environmental plans and programmes is certainly necessary. the proposal, a first, would allow ordinary citizens to have a say and contribute to issues ranging from air quality to water protection. the report shall make concrete and practical recommendations on how public participation can be achieved; for example, the information must be available within a reasonable time. in addition, citizens would have the right to submit comments orally or in writing. the report addresses many of the sensitive issues facing decision-makers since the seattle, stockholm and genoa protests: there could be more transparency and accountability, as citizens could both exercise control over the full autonomy of decision-makers and be better informed about the decisions made on their behalf.
- explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 1.12 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. – on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, i would also like to offer my congratulations to mr costa neves for guiding us so far and for the very good job that he has done. i have been asked by my committee to raise a number of points, the main one being the amendment that we are retabling on the court of auditors. as the house will know, the court of auditors asked for a number of new staff. the council recommended that only five new staff be granted and various positions have been taken on the additional staff requested and the money for them. the committee on budgetary control decided quite wisely, in my view, that we should take an apolitical stance on this. we should ask the court of auditors to assess the performance of financial control systems in the applicant countries; improve the court of auditors' cooperation with the national audit institutions – which is a requirement of the treaty of nice – and establish more detailed specific das assessments – again, a requirement of the treaty of nice. we would therefore be fairly apolitical and once those issues had been clarified, we would ask for the money to be released for the other posts. however, in the committee on budgets a completely different amendment was tabled. it is much more political, and we are very worried about the independence of the court of auditors in relation to the requirements set down by the committee on budgets, so i do hope that will be considered. i have also been asked to say a word about implementation. we have looked at the implementation figures and we will continue to look at them in the future and use them for future amendments to the budget. you have our full backing on everything you have done in getting better information on implementation for us so far. we have also looked at tabling amendments. we have an amendment coming through asking for money to be tied up and asking the commission to tell us whether an evaluation unit has been set up in dg v. finally, we are very concerned about the future of the a-30 lines, or rather how they are going to be spent. those are the points that the committee on budgetary control would like to raise.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. – mr president, i am going to combine my time as rapporteur for the committee on industry and spokesperson for the socialists on the other institutions. firstly, i congratulate both the rapporteurs for successfully completing the mammoth budgetary task, and also the chairman of the committee, mr wynn, for getting through the votes in record time. speaking on behalf of the committee on industry, i am disappointed with the outcomes in this budget because many of the priorities which we highlighted have been totally ignored. let me single out three issues. the e-europe initiative, launched with much fanfare at lisbon, highlighted how it would increase the competitiveness of european industry; increase employment opportunities; and acknowledge that a knowledge society is indisputably a fundamental prerequisite for future economic prosperity. the extension of e-europe to the applicant countries was again much heralded at stockholm, but we are proposing not to extend this programme. i would like to remind everybody that the council and parliament confirmed e-europe as a priority. by not supporting it we are undermining one of europe's priority programmes and this will be to the detriment of the applicant countries. we need to ensure, as the rapporteur stated, that rhetoric is matched by action, that the eu citizen is not left to ponder. we have all these programmes; they are acclaimed; and then they seem to dissipate into thin air! this applies equally to my second point on save. this has been a parliamentary priority for a number of years. here we have a proposal to decrease the funding for the coming year. an environmentally-friendly european energy policy is at the top of most people's agendas and it is important that europe leads the way in our kyoto obligations. therefore, to reduce programmes that promote sustainable energy consumption and impact on climate protection is extremely short-sighted. the third area in which the committee on industry will be retabling amendments is the decommissioning of weapons of mass destruction, and waste management. these are key to promoting a safer world. this is even more critical in the light of the recent atrocities of 11 september and to ensure that states have a proper strategy for dismantling chemical weapons so that there are no opportunities for these weapons to fall into the wrong hands. i would urge the rapporteur to rethink and support these amendments. moving on to the other institutions, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs buitenweg, for the open and inclusive approach she adopted in arriving at the budget for the other institutions. this year, as she said, heading 5 was under tremendous pressure for a number of reasons, including the preparation for the forthcoming enlargement. my group's efforts have been to continue to improve effectiveness, efficiency and transparency. as far as parliament is concerned, these are not just hollow words, but words of substance. we have demonstrated our commitment to improving efficiency by staying under parliament's 20% self-imposed ceiling, whilst absorbing the costs of preparations for enlargement of some eur 18 million. however, this will be extremely difficult in the coming years. i would urge the council to address this, so that the costs associated with the proposed enlargement are dealt with before we commence the budgetary procedure next year. furthermore, i welcome the three-year enlargement plan that the bureau has approved. at this stage, it is fairly sketchy and perhaps conservative – with a small ‘c’ – and not very radical. this is a shame because enlargement offers a real opportunity to make parliament more dynamic in its operation. some of the ideas outlined in this plan need to be developed further and we need to have a broader view of how things are done. yesterday we heard in plenary that parliament was unable to look at the money laundering proposals, which were agreed by the council, for another three weeks because of the need for translation into 11 languages. this is extremely frustrating for everybody concerned, but what will this mean when we have 10 more languages? we must address this issue because it causes us fundamental problems in terms of the image of parliament. it creates negative perceptions in the minds of european citizens, in that the european parliament is seen as undynamic and unresponsive. whilst we are on the subject of radical thinking, i would like to make some suggestions to the council to improve their own efficiency. the under-utilisation of parliament's buildings, for instance. we have buildings in brussels which are almost empty for one week every month, and a building in strasbourg which is hardly used and remains empty for three weeks a month. as the council is consistently pointing out waste, here is an offer it cannot refuse. it could share and make full use of our buildings by holding its meetings in our buildings. i hope that will also benefit transparency in the way it works.
, draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. – mr president, we on the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy this year can generally welcome the progress that has been made so far in formulating the budget for next year. looking back historically, we are doing a better job every year and this is certainly due partly to the work done by the rapporteurs. things are going along much more smoothly than they were, despite the fact that we are considerably squeezed for money because of external demands upon our budget. nevertheless, i am pleased to see that the committee on budgets has supported the view of committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy in restoring some of the budget lines which we are particularly concerned with, at least to the level of the pdb. also, it is worth mentioning that we look with approval upon the work that was done in terms of the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets with regard to the tobacco subsidies. they urge the council to take a good look at this. we urge the commission to take a good look at this. we know something must be done. i am pleased that the committee on budgets acknowledges this. its proposals for a gradual reduction over a period of time of that subsidy make sense, and it is time the council and the commission started talking about this issue. one particular success is on the issue of the budget line associated with the approval of orphan drugs by the medicines agency. i am very pleased the committee on budgets has accepted our point of view and i hope the commission does as well. this has been a very successful budget line since created last year together with the sab procedure. we were concerned about what the council wanted to do in terms of the massive cut it demanded in that line, which was completely unjustified. we are pleased about the restoration to an appropriate level of that budget line and we hope the commission will also defend that point of view to the council. this is a budget line which does genuinely good work for the people of europe and brings real and genuine benefits and it must be protected. finally, i would say that we have some concerns about the way in which the agencies have been handled. i can fully understand why money must go into the reserve and i can fully understand why there is increasing concern about the way the agencies operate, but we need to give them the appropriate resources to do their job and that particularly applies in the case of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on petitions. – mr president, i apologise to the rapporteurs that i was not able to be here at the beginning of the debate, but i would wager a euro that nobody has yet touched on the subject that i will raise on behalf of the committee on petitions. deep in the buitenweg report is amendment no 2022 on budget line 250 and this makes a new proposal to allow in certain circumstances, individual expenses to be paid to particular petitioners if they feel it appropriate to come to parliament to put their case. i want to thank the rapporteur for accepting this report and the committee for passing it. parliaments, you know, have various responsibilities. they decide who is to be the government, of course, that is not a responsibility of this parliament. they decide budgets, but you know, we have only partial budgetary powers. we have no powers over taxation, we have no powers over 50% of the expenditure more or less devoted to agriculture. parliaments decide legislation: that is a power we have to share with the council of ministers and we have no powers of legislative initiative. but parliaments also have a responsibility to protect the rights of the individual citizens in dealing with the bureaucracy and that is a responsibility that we discharge in this parliament through the work of the committee on petitions and the work of the ombudsman. i would say to parliament this afternoon that the money spent on petitions and the eur 3 million that we make available to the office of the ombudsman is money that is extremely well spent. it works out at less than eur 0.1 per person per annum, so it cannot be said to be a great deal of money, but it is money that is being spent on real european democracy and we want to ensure that we keep that up and that we see that we do more in future years.
president, our spokesman will be speaking for our group later, but i also have a few comments to make at this stage. as other speakers have already done, i should like to congratulate our two main rapporteurs, mr costa neves and mrs buitenweg. it is never an easy job to steer something through this house, as i know, and i think that they should be warmly applauded. with the commission budget this year, we have a proposal in front of us which, at 1.06% of gdp, is one of lowest budgets we have seen proposed in this house and therefore well below the ceiling as foreseen in the financial perspective, but i guess that with enlargement on its way, the financial perspective could well be tested before we reach the end of 2006. in referring to the costa neves report, i should like, first of all, to congratulate the rapporteur on having focused on the progress report, on what had been done in terms of following up on the joint council/parliament declaration at the end of last year which has shown its worth in our budgetary procedure. it may well be a useful idea to think of continuing this on an annual basis, because where we have gained is looking at the efficiency and effectiveness of the operations of the european institutions, and this for us in parliament is a point of major importance which i shall come back to at the end of my speech. i should like to raise a few points on the particular matters of the commission budget where we would, as a group, be looking for value for money – a tried and tested position with us. firstly, in terms of agriculture: we do not believe in having a reserve – we already have some money which has already been made available and a letter of amendment on its way, and i feel that it is quite sufficient. but we think there should be an enquiry into the management of foot-and-mouth by the commission and the british authorities, and we will be pushing for that. secondly, we believe that in information policy there is a continuing problem: every time we see commission proposals come through without the interinstitutional working groups, we as a parliament have to put them back on the information policy lines. i urge the commission to make sure that they become a permanent part of your proposals – this will save some effort on our part to ensure that this interinstitutional work is continued. thirdly, in terms of the food safety agency – i noted that was raised in the european council in ghent – i would remind the president-in-office (instead of laughing, he might listen to parliamentarians when they are speaking) that parliament's position is that the money will stay in reserve until we are satisfied about the operations and the location of this agency. i therefore assume that you will consult parliament before any final decision is taken. fourthly, as regards afghanistan – and i turn to the commission again here – there is an amendment down to create a ‘pour memoire’ entry for aid to afghanistan, and we will be asking the council with parliament to put this into the budget on second reading because we want to see in our group that there will be an international alliance to help the reconstruction of afghanistan once the conflict is over, and initial thinking on this issue is already under way in the united nations. lastly, i would like to refer to the question of the posts which we have put in reserve and we would like to ensure that the conditions for the reserve are met before the posts are released – including the fact that the commission has the capacity to use the posts during the next year in terms of the vacancies. there is, however, one more very critical point, and i turn again to the council of ministers here. rumour has it, mr president, that the early retirement package which is being negotiated in the council at the moment is not open to parliament. i would like you to confirm in any future remarks that it will be open to us – that is a critical point for our group as we wish to see it applied across all institutions. i conclude, mr president, on a point for our institution. yesterday evening, the bureau decided, in opposition to the resolution of mr harbour, to go against the idea of having a linear career structure – i quote paragraph 38 of the resolution which we voted in this house last november – "urges parliament's administration to introduce a linear career structure in parallel to the commission allowing for easy interinstitutional transfer". it is unacceptable that parliament's bureau seems to have gone totally awol and decided for itself: under pressure from parliament's administration, parliament's bureau has chosen to ignore what this parliament has voted for. therefore, you will have to answer three questions, and i end on this. why is the organisation and the function of parliament so distinctive from the commission as to require a different career structure? secondly, how can a career structure retaining four different categories meet the objectives of a linear career structure with progression on merit as strongly supported by parliament? and lastly, how can staff mobility between institutions be encouraged if parliament and the commission have different career structures? the bureau has to come and justify before this parliament the decisions it has taken as they are not in line with our resolutions. (applause)
chairman of the committee on budgets. – mr president, i do not want to repeat things, so i will stick to just a handful of points – although james elles has stolen some of the thunder from my speech with his last two points. i congratulate the rapporteurs. their work is never easy. this year they have done a particularly good job under difficult circumstances. i welcome the president-in-office's statement that at the next conciliation he hopes we can get an agreement with the council. i hope so too because on 20 july, at the last conciliation, we agreed virtually nothing. there is no point in having conciliation meetings if that is the level we are going to reach. hopefully, in november we may get something more positive. as for the situation regarding the margins, which the president-in-office also mentioned, there will not be much of a margin left by the time we vote on thursday. one of the reasons for that is because, once again, we could not get into any discussions with the council; we could not get any agreements with the council. i made the point on several occasions in july that the three institutions must seriously discuss the problems of trying to finance categories 3, 4 and 5 for the future. the council cannot ignore these categories as though there were no problems. at times it seems it is like an ostrich with its head stuck in the sand trying to ignore all the problems around it. when the council takes that attitude, we are left talking to the backside, although sometimes we get more sense out of the backside of an ostrich than out of some of the people that we do have to speak to! that is not a reference to you president-in-office! there are times when it is so frustrating trying to get the message through that we waste our time having conciliation meetings. hopefully, in november we will get something a lot more concrete. on the issue of reform, james elles has just touched on a very significant point. i was going to refer to the concern that we have about the progress that is not being made, but parliament has not helped itself with that decision last night by the bureau. one has to hope that can be changed rapidly. realistically, it is now left with the council: almost three years have passed since the resignation of the commission, and we still have not seen the reform that everyone is looking for. the general public, the taxpayers of europe, are looking for the reform which we promised almost three years ago. where are we? it is stuck in the council. president-in-office, you are aware, because i have discussed this issue with you, that the message must get through that we need a solution to this as quickly as possible. otherwise the whole process will be bogged down in the mire. hopefully, parliament can play its part and unravel last night's decision and continue on the track of getting a speedy process going so we can get the whole issue sorted out, not just for the commission but for all the institutions. i want to turn to the global health fund which we have a budget line and a relatively small amount of money for next year. as we are all aware, the commission will be bringing forward proposals to finance that from this year's budget, taking eur 60 million from the general budget and eur 60 million from the edf. i need to ask the commission a question: on the monies from the edf, once that budget is agreed, it is agreed with the acp states, so can we be assured that the acp states have agreed to the use of eur 60 million for the global health fund? several of my colleagues have asked me that question, and quite frankly, i do not know the answer to it. so if commissioner schreyer could reply to that, i would be grateful. let me turn to the contentious issue of the a-30 lines. it seems that whenever we vote on the a-30 lines, we please very few people and displease a lot of people. i would hope that the situation that we found ourselves in this time will give us the courage for next year to make proposals which envisage a more transparent system. we are concerned that if we hand the whole process over to the commission, it will be no better. the commission will take the decisions instead of parliament. i hope we can get some sort of an agreement within parliament on how we handle a-30 in the future. finally, i want to make a plea to the council and to repeat what i said in conciliation and at the recent trialogue. what we need is a working group of the council and parliament at a political level to start looking at value for money within the european union, to look at the institutions, to look at the activities and to make sure that we can persuade the taxpayers that they really are getting value for money. i hope you will take that on board. (applause)
mr president, i just want to raise two points this evening at the same time as praising the rapporteur for the very sensible and courteous manner in which he has run the budget in advance of next year. my first point is addressed to the commissioner and concerns b-1 items where the commission pays an enormous amount of money for subsidies for growing rice, bananas and the distillation of wine. these are items i would have thought we were by now starting to reduce the payments for. i would ask her to look at them. i tabled many amendments amounting to hundreds of millions of euros. i hope that rather than compulsory expenditure like that, being left to grow year by year, it should be looked at very closely. perhaps i could ask her to do that in advance of future budgets. the other matter is a perennial matter which comes up each year: the european women's lobby and finance for women's organisations generally. we tabled an amendment, and so did mrs avilés perea of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, to say that the money that is voted for lobby organisations for women following the beijing conference should not all go, as it has for many years, to the european women's lobby. i know many of my colleagues in the chamber receive all sorts of letters and e-mails from around europe saying it all must go to this one organisation. this is wrong, we need to encourage new organisations in this very important field. it is right and proper that the amendment that was put forward by the united kingdom delegation was in fact passed. this made it clear, in the remarks column, that one organisation, any single organisation within that spending line should not get more than 65%. i trust that the approved amendment will be held to when the budget comes out. i thank the commissioner for her consideration.
madam president, i want to raise an issue on the floor of the house which i am sure will be welcomed. i do so as the labour party spokesperson on northern ireland. the house would surely like to welcome the news on the peace process in northern ireland and the decommissioning of weapons. it serves as an example of what can be achieved through peaceful negotiation. tribute must be given to those involved in the difficult times of the peace process and the ongoing negotiations. mention must be made at the determination of those involved, including david trimble, and not least a member of this house, john hume, who has fought for peace for over three decades. (applause)
madam president, after that intervention inspired by naked self-interest, may i come back to more important matters of the day. i would like to support my colleague, mr cashman, and in particular point out that this parliament has been a very active supporter of the peace and reconciliation process in northern ireland. it has been a long, and at times faltering, road to achieving peace and no one knows that better than our own nobel peace prizewinner, john hume. i grew up in northern ireland in the shadow of violence, terrorism and intimidation. we are now witnessing another milestone in the return to peace for future generations. may i ask you therefore to write on behalf of the european parliament to all those involved and congratulate them on this major initiative? i would also hope that the belgium presidency would do the same on behalf of the council for the 15 member states.
madam president, i do not wish to delay proceedings, but just to follow up on the point, which has been made on a number of occasions, about parliamentary immunity. i could be wrong, but my understanding is that the purpose of parliamentary immunity for members of parliament acting in the parliament – not outside the parliament – is to allow you to represent the people who elected you. it is not so that you can necessarily represent your own views in whatever manner you choose. in other words, when you are outside this house, you are just the same as anyone else. you are on your own.
mr president, when the two planes crashed into the world trade center they demolished more than the twin towers. we also saw the destruction of the european union's three pillars contrived at the treaty of maastricht and our response today requires a fully integrated approach involving trade, finance and security. the ghent european council showed that the union enjoys both the capacity, and the will, to provide an increased sense of european security, solid in support of american self-defence, and sharing in the campaign to combat terrorism. this is a european union increasingly active in its civilian role and far more present in the middle east peace process. for us to succeed, we need to put aside our petty squabbles and the interinstitutional rivalries. the commission and council should reflect the impressive cross-party consensus that we have created in parliament. in that context i would like strongly to congratulate the belgian presidency on brokering such a successful deal on the setting up of the convention.
mr president, there are two messages coming from this house today. firstly, the rather modest compromise resolution drafted by an all-party group which, if i were a member of the forces serving currently in afghanistan – and i think particularly of the british forces – would give me very scant comfort. the other message comes from the president-in-office of the council, mr verhofstadt, and deals with a rather more robust approach to the current operations in that area and also his more forward thinking approach towards the future of afghanistan. of course this house must have compromise resolutions and must, so far as possible, be united. europe must not act at the level of the lowest common denominator but accept that in politics, as in war, there must be room for leadership. today, our resolution does not reflect the sort of leadership which is available for the people of afghanistan through their exiled king. our resolution does not reflect the fact that in peshawar today there is an enormous meeting taking place of those seeking – including the moderate taliban – the restoration of democracy in that country. i believe – as do many of my colleagues – that the king, whom i had the pleasure of meeting on 21 september and whom mr solana met only last weekend, does have a role in the future of afghanistan. he introduced democracy to that country in 1964: free elections, a free media, universities, hospitals; he introduced women into politics. it is that hope of the restoration of democracy in afghanistan and the ending of international terrorism which must be the focus of our attention.
in writing. -the labour party in the european parliament supports the general approach of the weiler report on the employment guidelines for 2002. it also expressed sympathy with the amendments tabled by mr bushill-matthews, but felt that the weiler report was not the appropriate text for such amendments.
in writing. - i wholeheartedly support this report by mrs weiler, who welcomes the employment guidelines for 2002. while acknowledging that full employment can be achieved through further structural labour market reforms, the report advocates increased investment in training, particularly for jobseekers. there is no doubt about the quantitative and qualitative benefits that the eu would reap in response to its commitment to promoting training. training and education are essential means by which the member states of the union can together improve the european employment rate. investments in education and training have repeatedly paid off in different member states. coordinated at european level, these investments would be all the more beneficial. it is essential that these commitments are put into practice and not remain dead letters. finally, recommendations that the social partners should agree on changes in working practices could pave the way for a strengthening of relations within industries and create a situation where each one's specialist knowledge could be fully exploited.
counsel. - mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, in the happy days when i was a member of the european parliament, i too was rather critical of the council, but i do not think i have ever spoken to the council in the way that some of you have thought it useful to do. and then i would like to say that there is something i do not understand: i have been a member of the belgian federal government for a year, i have been involved in the work of the general affairs council, for a few months i have been chairman of the agriculture council, i have been involved in the informal foreign trade council and for a long time i was involved in the internal market council. so, that is to say that, anyway, in a year, i have accumulated some experience of how the councils work, and of counselling in various formations. i should like to say, for your information, that it is very rare that there is not a majority, if not almost a majority, of ministers or secretaries of state in all the formations i have just mentioned. so i'm just telling you, for your information, so you know; i also say to you that the image that some of you have thought it was good to paint, the image of a council where the ministers are there when the cameras are there, and then they all leave as soon as the cameras are gone, that this image is also not in line with reality. again, this is for your information. it reminds me a little of the criticism i have always received from some people of the european parliament, who, for example, when observing a sitting like this, denounce the absence of members of the european parliament, saying: 'but where are they?' finally, i should like to say that there is no question of per diem for ministers who take part in the council. all this, ladies and gentlemen, is for information only.
the council. - mr commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in two weeks' time the fourth ministerial conference of the world trade organization will be held in doha, qatar. the european union is making every effort to ensure that a new round of trade negotiations is launched on the basis of a broad and balanced agenda. the conclusions of the general affairs council of 26 october 1999 remain the reference point for this. the general affairs council of 8 october last stressed the importance of a new round of trade negotiations. the general affairs council next monday will take another look at the situation. it is indeed essential that a close union with united forces can go to doha. you all know, of course, that it is the commission which negotiates on behalf of the european union in trade matters, including here, and that commissioner pascale lamy, who will speak after me, plays an absolutely crucial and very much appreciated role in this. i should also like to inform you that the subject of preparing the fourth ministerial conference of the world trade organisation was also raised at the social affairs council, the agriculture council and, if i am not mistaken, also at the environment council, in order to coordinate positions or at least to be aware of the different sensitivities. a new round of broad negotiations should make it possible to make progress on further liberalization and regulation of world trade, and this is extremely important for several reasons. firstly, the conference is taking place against the backdrop of a slowing global economy, a situation made worse by the dramatic events of 11 september, which have a negative impact on the economic growth of both industrialized and developing countries. the agreement on the start of a new round will therefore send a strong and positive signal to the world economy. the heads of state or government of the european union and the president of the commission also called, at the recent informal council in ghent, for, and i quote: "to work actively to launch the wto negotiations. in view of the current uncertain economic situation, further trade liberalisation, based on a rules-based multilateral system with a real development dimension, is more important than ever, both economically and politically.'
commission. - mr president, i should first like to thank the european parliament for organising this debate on the state of preparations for the next wto ministerial conference, two weeks before it opens and at a time when discussions are very lively in geneva and elsewhere on the negotiating programme to be launched. i would also like to say that as the union's negotiator, i attach great importance to the active participation of the european parliament in this debate. as you know, we fought together at the last intergovernmental conference - which drew up the so-called treaty of nice - for a strengthening of parliament's powers in the field of trade policy. as you know, the member states have not adopted our proposals. in these circumstances, the commission shall do everything in its power, within the framework of the treaty, to inform the european parliament and to involve it in the union's trade policy. you also know that we support the creation of a parliamentary consultative body at the wto to strengthen the participation of elected representatives in the multilateral trading system. i am deeply convinced that if we want to support public opinion, if we want to increase the legitimacy of the wto, greater involvement of parliamentarians in its work is not only possible but also, and above all, necessary. what is the union's negotiating programme? in the last two years - since seattle - we have had the opportunity to discuss together on several occasions the state of preparations for the next ministerial conference. the exchange of views we have had here and in committee has fuelled our own reflections on the strategy to be implemented. the views and concerns you have expressed in these contacts are very much in line with those of the commission. you want a negotiating programme on trade and investment liberalization, as we do, to meet the needs of our exporters and those of the developing countries. but you also want, as we do, a negotiating programme which deals with the definition of new rules, the clarification of existing rules and the articulation of the rules of the world trade organisation and those of other international bodies in the fields of social, environmental, health or food security. these rules can ensure greater market efficiency, better social development and adequate environmental protection. in our view, the key to sustainable development for the whole planet lies in the combination of open markets and the implementation of multilateral rules. the agenda supported by the union from seattle therefore has three parts: market access, regulation and integration of developing countries; the unity of these three components must be guaranteed by what is known as the single undertaking. we want a sustained negotiation and a rapid conclusion. some of you may be surprised that we haven't changed course or timetable since the horrors of 9/11. that deserves a few words of explanation. we felt that an approach based on the principle of orderly liberalization was necessary even before 9/11. it has become even more necessary after the terrorist attacks. the process of opening up, regulating trade, integrating developing countries and ensuring the sustainability of environmental and social policy is as necessary today as it was in the past. they are factors of stability and security in relations between countries or between generations. consultation, negotiation, the peaceful resolution of trade conflicts have made international trade a kind of advanced continent of international governance, where each partner participates in decisions. in the face of the destabilisation caused by the attacks, we must further strengthen the primacy of multilateralism, which we believe is the best way to make globalisation a state of law and not just a state of fact. of course, the wto is only one of the pillars of the multilateral system which must respond to the challenges of globalisation. a round of negotiations within the wto is therefore a necessary but not sufficient condition. other governance bodies in the areas of environment, social development, development finance and support for sound internal policies will also need to be strengthened. let us now see what the prospects are for the ministerial conference in two weeks' time. i think that we are in a better position overall than we were in the corresponding period before seattle. the preparations are being made in a spirit of positive cooperation. the conviction that the multilateral system must, more than ever, be an essential component of growth and prosperity is widely shared. and i think it should also be noted that the openness, the constructive spirit, the efforts of many partners - ourselves, the united states, a growing number of developing countries - have already helped to reduce in part the differences which had hindered the success of the seattle conference. this was very clear at the last informal, restricted meeting of wto trade ministers, held in singapore on 13 and 14 october last, in which i participated. i think that was also well reflected at the meeting of apec (pacific rim countries) trade ministers last week. i think we have now reached the point where an ambitious, balanced cycle, responding to the union's main objectives, is possible. of course, we are not there yet. we are now entering the final and crucial phase, before doha. as you know, a draft ministerial declaration, which will constitute the negotiating mandate for the new round, was tabled on 26 september. it was considered by all wto members to be a reasonable basis for work. of course, no one is completely satisfied, which, if you know the culture of the wto, is a rather good sign before a negotiation. of course, not everything in this text is acceptable, not even for us, and i will point out the most important problems on which we still have to work. the first concerns trade and the environment, areas where we are particularly concerned by the lack of ambition in the proposals. we clearly want to make the negotiating mandate more substantial. progress is being made here and there, but it must be acknowledged that most of our developing country partners are still at least hesitant to accept negotiations on this subject. we will do everything we can in the days ahead to improve the situation. i made it clear to my colleagues in singapore that a mandate on this issue was not only a political necessity for the union but also had to serve the interests of all members of the world trade organisation and the multilateral system as a whole. i think we have missed the message about the political importance of this issue. the operational consequences of this are yet to be determined. the second difficulty, after the environment, is agriculture, which remains a very sensitive subject. the draft on the table seems to prejudge the outcome of the negotiations in many respects, since it aims in particular at the phasing out of certain categories of subsidies, which goes beyond the mandate given to me and franz fischler.
the commission is aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the doha conference, and that the council has been involved in the negotiations on the doha conference, and that the council has been involved in the negotiations on the doha conference. we believe that it is too weak and needs to be strengthened to better reflect the importance of this issue in our societies and our ambition, as my mandate is, to see an international and multi-institutional dialogue on this subject. as far as investment and competition are concerned, one of the options presented, namely to stop at work programmes, does not suit us. in our view, work programmes cannot replace negotiations, even if we can think of an intelligent link between a work programme and negotiations, so of course this would have to be agreed in advance. the question of the relationship between health and intellectual property, to which the president-in-office of the council referred earlier, also remains difficult. as you know, we are very committed to this subject and are actively trying to bring the most extreme positions together in order to reach a substantive political declaration in doha that reconciles the flexibilities of the intellectual property agreement with the need for access to essential medicines in developing countries on the one hand and the need to guarantee innovation through research on the other. that's it for us. other delegations obviously have their own concerns about the ministerial declaration. for a number of developing countries, the implementation of existing wto agreements, or in many cases their readjustment, is of paramount importance, and we believe we must be prepared to respond to these concerns in an open and creative way. some of the least developed countries have a real problem of insufficient capacity and resources, and this problem will have to be solved in the future work of the world trade organization. despite these concerns, most wto members now seem to me increasingly willing to show the flexibility and openness needed to launch a substantially ambitious negotiation in doha, and i am beginning to think that we can get our four priorities back: trade liberalization, strengthening the rules, including development at the heart of the multilateral agenda and integrating the sustainable development goals into the wto. all this is intended to take better account of the concerns of our fellow citizens. i hope, on behalf of the commission, that the resolution you will vote on tomorrow will give clear and strong support to these objectives of the european union. if you do, it will strengthen the negotiator's hand and send a political signal to our trading partners, but also to our citizens, that the european union will not be content with a business as usual approach in this negotiation. i would also like to take this opportunity to welcome, on behalf of the commission, the members of your assembly who will be part of our delegation to doha and we will continue in doha the good practices of cooperation between us which i believe we developed in seattle. this is, in any case, the result of the questionnaire i sent you at the time, to which the majority of the members of this delegation replied, and i look to you for your active support in promoting what i believe is our common agenda.
mr president, firstly i should like to extend our congratulations to both the council and the commission for what seems to be a much improved preparation for this meeting, compared to the methodological confusion that seemed to reign prior to seattle. we hope it will bear fruit in a couple of weeks' time. as a group we are also very keen that we should learn the lessons from seattle and not use the launch of the round, or the text for the launch of the round, to somehow foreshadow or preclude the conclusion of the round. that is obviously a lesson well-learnt and we applaud the attempts to keep the document which will be discussed in doha as crisp and brief as possible. i am not entirely sure whether the principles of brevity and crispness have been fully respected in our own resolution, but this is certainly something we hope you will follow in doha. there are two issues of absolutely fundamental importance to us as a liberal group. firstly, trade and the environment: for us issues such as the interaction between trade and multilateral environmental agreements, eco-labelling, the incorporation of the precautionary principle are not add-ons or luxuries, they are absolutely fundamental to the future credibility of the wto and, arguably, of globalisation as a political process itself. we feel strongly, therefore, that without those kinds of provisions in the next round of negotiations, it will simply become politically unsellable and unsustainable within europe. secondly on agriculture, our own views are that paragraphs 23 to 25, whilst just above adequate, are a little convoluted and mealy-mouthed on agriculture. we prefer the emphasis in paragraph 6 because it draws attention to the fundamental fact, highlighted recently by a study from the centre for economic policy research, that the greatest instrument to alleviate poverty is the further liberalisation of agriculture. that is a fundamental principle for us which we hope will be fully respected in the next round.
our group has not signed the compromise resolution with the larger groups for a number of reasons, but the most important one is this: we believe that fundamental reform of the world trade organisation's processes and rules must be a precondition for any new round of trade talks. reform is not something that can be simply addressed as one issue among many in a new multilateral trade round where it risks being traded off against other interests and demands. in our view, the wto faces such a crisis of legitimacy in public opinion that reform must come before any further negotiations, and that is the position we have put forward in our joint resolution with the gue group. now that is not a tactic for putting off indefinitely the start of a new round. in our view, nothing has slowed down the wto more than the debacle in seattle which was caused in no small part by the chaotic and exclusive structures, rules and procedures of the wto. so, for those who believe in multilateral trade rules, as we do, serious reform is not an option but a necessity. the lessons of the failed seattle ministerial were that the wto must become a fully democratic and transparent organisation which genuinely supports sustainable development and which effectively responds to the needs of developing countries. they need to be far bigger players in the wto. their marginalisation needs to end and they need to be listened to. in recent weeks, many poorer countries have made it clear that for them addressing concerns about the implementation of uruguay round commitments should be a precondition for a new round. just two days ago, a communication from the g77 reiterated that position. our group agrees with developing countries when they oppose new issues on the agenda on the grounds that expanding that agenda would over stretch the capacity of many developing countries which are already struggling to participate effectively in the wto process. it would distract attention from the unfinished development business and increase the risk that developing countries will end up accepting disadvantageous trade-offs. the possible opt-outs that are on offer are not a realistic or effective way of dealing with these concerns, since developing countries still do not have the capacity now to affect the negotiations of an agreement which they may be later under pressure to sign. pressing ahead with a new trade round in the face of major opposition from the majority of developing countries is not helpful. simply calling it a development round without genuinely addressing the demands of developing countries is a sleight of hand that fails to address their real concerns. finally, our group agrees that strong international rules are needed to manage trade. we agree very much that internationalism is important, but the current international trade rules favour narrow business interests and not the poor and the environment. changing those rules is the priority for doha, not launching a new round.
mr president, commissioner, madam president- in-office of the council, like others, i wear a badge which symbolises trade with justice. open trade – yes, but only with rules. our national and european interests, yes of course, but also the interests of the developing world – your approach, commissioner, and ours. i am going to concentrate on two frankly difficult areas – trips and the environmental aspects of trade which you have already mentioned. firstly, trips: what we now have in the agreement is not clear enough or good enough. intellectual property rights are important in world trade, but we thought that the 25.5 million hiv positive people in sub-saharan africa could have access to cheap drugs under trips. let us ensure that this is made more explicit after doha. ironically, the united states, the world's most fierce defender of intellectual property rights is now faced with the dilemma of needing huge supplies of antibiotics to combat anthrax. attitudes may change with new circumstances – in any case, they have to. secondly, environmental standards. the eu faces charges of protectionism. commissioner, you know that this is not the case, that we are ready to help developing countries in any way necessary as we are helping applicant countries, that we have science on our side and that we will not abandon our hard-won progress – why should we? multilateral environment agreements cannot be discarded in the name of free trade and the precautionary principle must be explicitly included in wto rules. this is a deal-breaker for us. we in the eu know more than any other part of the world how untrammelled free trade can be controlled through multilateral rule-making to the benefit of our citizens. our achievements in the eu are relevant elsewhere, and we should defend them – your task commissioner. i know you will be tough on our behalf. i hope you will be tough too on core labour standards. seattle did not work – doha can if it is fair and if there is a balance of trade and justice. good luck commissioner.
mr president, i would also like to join in the congratulations to mr désir, the rapporteur. this report strikes us as an excellent piece of forward-thinking, a blueprint for the wto of tomorrow. it comprehensively rejects those who claim that the wto is beyond redemption; that it cannot be reformed; that it is inherently biased against the poor or the dispossessed; and that it is just an agent for the rule of the jungle, rather than the rule of law. it also rejects the contrary view: the idea that free trade should prevail at all costs; that the wto should be an agent for the dismantling of outstanding trade barriers, and should do so to the exclusion of all other political and public policy considerations. instead, it represents almost a synthesis of those two views, because it shows how and when and why the wto should, and must, be reformed. it shows how the wto must become more transparent and legitimate. i should add that all the emphasis that we, as europeans, place on the need for increased legitimacy and transparency in the wto will come to nothing if we do not reform the way in which we conduct our own trade policy in the european union. i was delighted to hear the presidency today say that it has supported in the past, and will support in the future, parliament's demands for more transparent and legitimate trade policy-making in the european council and the european union. the report also – and this is perhaps its greatest contribution to the debate – shows the way in which the wto has to be placed increasingly in a context of other public policy priorities and other multilateral organisations and agreements. it cannot rely on a role as primus inter pares on the international scene. instead it should learn to interact with other priorities and other multilateral agreements. our role is, therefore, to flank the wto with other supporting agreements in other fields, notably the environmental field.
mr president, justice must be done, but more importantly justice must be seen to be done: the wto is a very powerful international organisation, dealing with rules and law, and it must be seen to act justly. accountability and transparency are therefore exceptionally important. global trade requires global rules and development requires understanding of some of the problems of the developing countries. if we are discussing transparency and accountability within the wto process, transparency for its own sake and accountability for its own sake are just not enough. the fundamental purpose of both is to create integrity in the system so that those who have promised to do things, and here i mean the developed countries, are forced to do them because of international public opinion. there are many things that the developed countries promised in the uruguay round which have not been delivered. conversely, those in the developing world who now have systems of corruption and bad practice will also be brought to book through the process of accountability and transparency. in this regard, i would like to support mr désir in saying that he has produced an excellent report which i want to support. it is vital to understand the permanent position of the rule of law. equality before the law and confidence in it is an absolute necessity for developing countries. without it all the well-meaning words and the great aid-giving we indulge in will come to nothing. justice must be done and must be seen to be done.
mr president, i congratulate mr brok on his comprehensive report, and i agree with him that we have made enormous progress in terms of foreign and security policy. almost every time i open a newspaper, i see the names patten and solana in connection with some new trouble spot in the world. he is right to say that we have responded to the current crisis with a coherence and unity that we would not have thought possible only four or five years ago. he is right to say that the coalition against terror would not have been possible without the progress we have made within the eu to bring about that unity and coherence. clearly a lot still needs to be done, and we have to take advantage of the current crisis to perhaps change the emphasis in our work. we spend something like 60% of what the americans spend on defence, but we spend 400% of what the americans spend on what might be called ‘soft intervention’ – humanitarian aid and assistance. we need to try to change that emphasis. the americans need to learn from this crisis that security is not just a matter of power projection. you can have all the weapons in the world, but you will be unable to defend yourself against a few people armed with box cutters. we need to have a multinational approach to the global problems. for our part we have to realise that we must have greater military capability in order to back up our actions. that is why the capability process currently under way is so important. we must put some teeth into our common foreign and security policy. that is why i am disappointed with the news that italy is likely to pull out of the project for a400m aircraft. we need strategic lift. it is often ironic that the countries that most engage in rhetoric about european cooperation are those that often fail to produce the action. one final observation is that at the moment we are seeing a warming of relations with iran and syria. i should like to remind colleagues that there are a number of israeli soldiers and civilians held hostage by forces sympathetic to, or controlled by, iran and syria. these people are missing in action and i would hope the commission and the council would use this opportunity to get those hostages restored to their families.
- the following reports by mr lamassoure, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the 2000 commission regular report on turkey's progress towards accession (com (2000) 713 - c5-0613/2000-2000/2014 (cos)) are requested for joint debate: - a5-0338/2001 by mr lamassoure, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the proposal for a council regulation on preaccession financial assistance to turkey (com (2001) 230 - c5-0219/2001 - 2001/0097 (cns)).
mr president, the liberal group welcomes mr lamassoure's report, which we find balanced and thoroughly informed. it will be closely studied in turkey, where the reformers will find much to encourage them in their efforts to bring turkey forward on the track of modernisation, liberalisation, full respect for fundamental rights and social and economic progress. so far the majorities in the grand national assembly for reform are great, but could i urge our colleagues inside the turkish parliament to respond to this report in a truly parliamentary fashion? why not pass a resolution calling for their government fully to respect the rulings of all the international courts, including the european court of human rights here in strasbourg? why not pass a resolution supporting the setting up of the rapid reaction force and why not pass a resolution to bring pressure to bear upon mr denktash to work towards the integration of turkish cypriots into the european union? such reciprocity between our two parliaments would demonstrate, in a dramatic way, that turkey is truly advancing upon its european journey.
mr president, this very good report shows turkey is making progress towards europe, but more is needed. for instance, 19 people are being prosecuted for insulting state officials because they attended a conference at which victims who had suffered torture in the form of rape in custody spoke out against their tormenters. it is not only women to whom this happens. it is clearly outrageous that the state should condemn the victims, rather than their aggressors. i call on the turkish authorities to drop these shameful prosecutions. secondly, i want to urge the turkish government to take an initiative towards a political settlement with the kurds. the pkk have observed the cease-fire for over two years. its leader, abdullah ocalan, is appealing to the european court of human rights against the unfairness of his trial. it is time to launch peace negotiations. finally, now is not the time to eject 80 000 kurds, breach environmental standards and human rights, in order to construct the ilisu dam. it must not be built and eu governments, such as the uk government, must not grant export credit.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the commission welcomes the broad consensus in this debate on turkey's assessment. i hope we can use this commonality in the assessment of the work ahead. i would also like to point out that the commission agrees with the conclusions and views expressed in the reports by the rapporteur, mr lamassoure. there is also a broad consensus. this too will be helpful for our further work. it has been said here on several occasions - and i emphasize this - that turkey has become more important to us. this is not only due to its geostrategic location. i always warn against reducing turkey to a place of particular geostrategic importance. i believe that turkey's uniqueness lies in its cultural and historical heritage and in the political role it can play at this global political juncture. the political elites in turkey have shown their firm determination to further modernise the country and bring it closer to european standards. the constitutional reform which has just been adopted is an important sign of this. i do indeed see great progress in this constitutional reform. parliament has adopted these important decisions very quickly and by an overwhelming majority. i consider this large majority particularly important because it shows that there is apparently a broad social consensus in turkey on the need for democratic and rule of law reforms. but these changes must have an impact on the real world. the crucial question for turkey is always what is actually changing. that is why all those who have said in this debate are right: we must now see how turkey implements this promising constitutional reform and what changes are taking place in reality. in this respect, the commission agrees with the european parliament's assessment that, despite the constitutional reform and the other legislative initiatives announced, there is still a great deal to be done to ensure that human rights are effectively and sustainably protected in turkey. our relations have made good progress since helsinki. the pre-accession strategy is being implemented. as with all other candidate countries, turkey's priorities are set out in an accession partnership. turkey has adopted a national programme for the adoption of the acquis this year, which also includes the timetable for the adoption of new legislation, which has been repeatedly called for here. such legislation must be consistent with the acquis of the european union. we want to continue the approach to turkey on the basis of the principles agreed at helsinki. this clearly means that we cannot talk about opening negotiations until the political conditions for accession have been met. i would also like to stress that there is no discount for anyone in the world for political conditions of accession to the european union. it is in the logic of our helsinki decisions that turkey must be treated on an equal footing with the other candidate countries in all other areas except the negotiations. the lamassoure report refers to the difficult economic situation in turkey. i would like to encourage turkey to continue the economic reforms agreed with the international monetary fund. we will release the first tranche of the european union's structural adjustment facility for turkey, amounting to eur 75 million, as soon as possible. as regards cyprus, we continue to advocate strongly that the peace process be resumed under the auspices of the united nations as soon as possible. turkey has pledged its support in this process. but i must make it clear that the expectation in the european union is that this support will be expressed in concrete steps and that the support will lead to us actually finding a solution. i am confident that the accession negotiations with cyprus will be concluded in the course of the next year. it is therefore of particular importance that the parties concerned make every effort to achieve a lasting political solution. the elements of the solution which take account of the interests and concerns of all parties are well known. what we need is the political courage to seize the opportunity and solve the cyprus problem now. the window of opportunity is now open. but i have to be clear, probably not for much longer. a solution to the cyprus problem will clearly benefit the further development of relations between the european union and turkey. relations between greece and turkey have improved considerably. the commission welcomes the confidence-building measures agreed. i would like to congratulate the two foreign ministers, mr cem and mr papandreou, on their initiatives and their successes. both foreign ministers have done much to create a favourable climate for further progress in the region. as regards the problems still existing in european security and defence policy, i called on turkey just a few days ago to contribute to a constructive solution as soon as possible. in any case, this problem should be solved before the european council meets in laeken in december of this year. with additional effort it must be possible - and i am convinced it is possible - to reach an agreement. we are fully aware of turkey's concerns, particularly with regard to possible actions in its neighbourhood. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. we must expect a country which is a candidate for membership of the european union not to block but to support one of the most important projects for the future of the european union. the commission considers that it is important to improve relations between turkey and armenia in order to promote security and stability in the region. the commission therefore warmly welcomes the recent initiatives by civil society in both countries to bring the people of both countries closer together and to work out the sad past with the help of independent historians. i welcome the european parliament's opinion on the financial assistance programme. the proposed amendments are acceptable to us. i also agree with the european parliament in particular that there must be effective coordination of the various sources of funding and programmes. it is true that we are probably now at a crucial stage in the relations between the european union and turkey. the adoption of mr lamassoure's reports means that by the end of the year we will have all the elements necessary for our pre-accession strategy. we can then enter a new phase in which our attention should be directed above all to the implementation and intensification of turkey's preparations for accession. (applause from the centre)
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
- doc. a5-0326/2001 by mr van dam, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the common position adopted by the council (c5-0292/2001 - 2000/0121 (cod)) with a view to the adoption of a european parliament and council directive establishing harmonised requirements and procedures for the safe loading and unloading of bulk carriers.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway. i would like to thank mr van dam in particular for his report and for his help to the commission in its efforts to increase the safety of bulk carriers. the directive will transpose into community law the international maritime organisation's code currently in force on the safety of loading and unloading of such vessels, as well as parts of the convention on the safety of life at sea. the code, which is in fact a recommendation, was introduced by the imo in 1997, but has so far been little applied. as soon as its application becomes mandatory in all union ports, this code will be used much more and will therefore contribute to the safety of all bulk carriers calling into the union. as the rapporteur has said, this directive is intended to combat the disappearance of bulk carriers, that is to say shipwrecks of these vessels, which can suddenly break apart on the high seas and sink in a matter of minutes, resulting in considerable loss of life. as mr fava said, the statistics are unfortunately quite clear: in the last ten years these shipwrecks have caused the loss of 134 ships and 743 victims, and there is a constant trend in the average age and total annual deadweight of the ships that have disappeared. the question of the safety of bulk carriers had to be addressed and it turned out that poor loading and unloading methods were considered to be one of the main causes of these tragic accidents. the directive, as the rapporteur has said, is designed to ensure that cargo handling operations in our ports comply with strict rules, so as to avoid damage to the ship when loading or unloading heavy bulk cargoes. before and during loading and unloading operations, the on-board crew and dock personnel must be in contact and in agreement, and a plan must be agreed in advance as to how loading and unloading will take place. the heavy equipment which is very often used in these operations must be handled with care and in cases of disagreement between the parties, the dock personnel and the crew on board, the competent authority must be able to intervene to suspend operations in order to avoid the integrity of the bulk vessel structure being compromised. the commission is therefore particularly pleased that parliament intends to accept the council's common position without amendments, because once it is adopted swiftly, this important directive can enter into force as soon as possible. it also shows that on sensitive maritime safety issues the european parliament and the council are able to reach a decision quickly and in the greatest possible cohesion, and the commission hopes that the cohesion shown in this case can be reflected in other major issues currently on the agenda.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
- doc. a5-0327/2001 by mr vatanen, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive (com (2001) 46 - c5-0051/2001 - 2001/0026 (cod)) on formalities for entry and exit from community ports.
the commission is aware of the fact that the council has not yet adopted the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. this shows the importance we all now attach to short sea shipping. in recent years, the community has put in place a comprehensive strategy to make short sea shipping a viable and realistic alternative to purely road transport. this strategy has been reinforced in the white paper on european transport policy for 2010. one of the aspects of this strategy is to overcome the obstacles to the development of short sea shipping. however, the recent exercise we organised to take stock of these obstacles showed that the complexity of administrative documentary procedures was considered to be one of the main bottlenecks. mr vatanen was kind enough to say that the commission was tackling the paperwork for once. i'm letting him take the fall for that drive. the commission has therefore put forward a proposal to simplify certain documentary procedures. we have chosen to look at the routine procedures that ships must undergo each time they enter or leave a port. the procedures currently in force are not unreasonable in themselves, but the ways of complying with them differ so much from one member state to another that they are often a source of confusion for shipowners and operators. in addition, the international maritime organisation has developed a number of standard forms to standardise these procedures, and we therefore considered that standardisation was necessary so that ships can know what information they have to provide to the authorities, and how they have to do so, regardless of the port of call. since there are already internationally recognised standard forms, we have taken the simple solution of using them. here again, this will probably pave the way for a worldwide application of the imo forms. this proposal therefore simplifies the complex documentary procedures required in the field of maritime transport. it does not impose any new obligations on shipowners. it allows them to carry out certain declaration formalities in a harmonised and simplified manner. as these declarations are identical regardless of flag or sector of activity, there is no reason to exclude some of them from the scope of our proposal, which therefore applies to short sea shipping as well as to high sea shipping, and which will not make any distinction between flags. thank you again, mr. vatanen. we believe that the amendments he has tabled in his report will enable us to reach agreement with the council on the adoption of this proposal at first reading. this is good news, and we know you're grateful.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
- the following two reports are requested for joint debate: - a5-0366/2001 by mr gahrton, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision establishing the community position within the ministerial conference set up by the agreement establishing the world trade organisation, concerning the accession of the people's republic of china to the world trade organisation (com (2001) 517 - c5-0487/2001 - 2001/0218 (cns)); - a5-0367/2001 by mr gahrton, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision establishing the position to be taken by the community within the ministerial conference set up by the agreement establishing the world trade organisation on the accession of the separate customs territory of chinese taipei (taiwan, penghu, kinmen and matsu) to the world trade organisation (com (2001) 518 - c5-0488/2001 - 2001/0216 (cns)).
commission mr president, after 15 years of negotiations, we are indeed at the final stage of china and taiwan's accession to the wto. the commission has submitted the conditions of accession to you for your opinion. i would like to thank your assembly, in particular the committee on industry, commerce, research and energy and the rapporteur, mr gahrton, for the priority you have given to this matter. if you follow the recommendation of your rapporteur, the union will be able to give the green light for china's accession at the next wto ministerial conference, which, as you know, will be held in doha from 9 to 13 november. the documents submitted to you have enabled you to become acquainted with all the technical aspects of the negotiation. i shall not return to it today, but i would like to share with you some more political thoughts, reacting both to the document presented by mr gahrton and to his speech; they both deserve it. i would first like to stress the particular nature of the wto accession negotiations and try to correct the impression - which your report creates, mr gahrton - that this is something we would have conducted in an excessively unilateral manner. wto membership is not negotiated in a traditional multilateral framework, where concessions are made on the basis of reciprocity. in the negotiations for membership, at any rate for membership of the wto (i say this with caution, since this seat was occupied by günter verheugen less than an hour ago), a country, on the contrary, applies for membership, asks to join a club whose members have already negotiated commitments between themselves. the candidate country must therefore pay to join this club by offering market access commitments that reflect what the members have already agreed among themselves. your report repeatedly emphasizes, with some shades of reproach which i have not missed, the positive tone which the commission uses to describe the results we have achieved at the end of these 15 years of negotiations. if the commission does not, contrary to the terms used in the report, have a jubilant attitude, i think we can nevertheless look at these results with satisfaction at the work done. our task was first and foremost to defend the union's interests in these negotiations, and that is what has been done. but it is also true that this agreement is not a kind of unilateral victory for the union, as you seem to be saying, if i understand you correctly, that we are doing something wrong. if there is a victory, i would be tempted to say that it is multilateral, in the sense that the multilateral system as a whole is strengthened. we cannot defend a global vocation in the wto by excluding a country which represents more than 20% of the world's population. the question was not whether china should join the wto, but when. well, after 15 years - that's a long time - of negotiations, the various parties involved, china and its trading partners, came to the conclusion that that date had arrived. one of our main objectives in the union was that these negotiations should actually lead to a strengthening of the multilateral system. china had to accept what could be described as the multilateral acquis, and here again i do not dare draw any parallel, namely the progress made in gatt and then in the wto for the past half century. we have ensured that the level of chinese commitments provides that guarantee. but this accession to the wto is also a victory for china, because it is an essential condition, which we regard as the continuation of its exceptional economic development. china's foreign trade has grown by an average of 15 percent a year over the last 20 years, so it's literally an explosion. and wto membership provides a stable framework for its trade policy by ensuring that it maintains markets which are crucial to it. its membership will also enable it to defend its commercial interests by participating fully in the next round of negotiations. finally, i think it is clear that wto membership is only one, perhaps essential, but only one, element of the reform process which was launched by deng xiaoping in 1978 and which his successors have continued. more than an end in itself, membership is a consequence of these past reforms and a springboard for new reforms to come. the justification for these reforms is not in the wto membership, and i think it would probably be presumptuous to try to distinguish precisely what will result from the membership itself from what is related to the reform process under way in china. this close link between the internal reform timetable and wto accession has been recognised by china's trading partners, and in particular by the union, through the acceptance of transitional periods for the implementation of certain obligations. our aim was more about the finish line, the aiming point, than the speed itself. you referred, mr gahrton, to two books which stress the dangers that accession to the wto would present for china in terms of regional tensions or social unrest. i do not think that these problems are being underestimated by the chinese authorities, whose main political objective seems to me to be to guarantee the stability and integrity of their country. i have understood from the discussions i have had with them that china sees its accession to the wto as an essential part of the continuation of these 20 years of reforms, and therefore of the continuation of the growth which has kept internal tensions under control here and there. china's gdp per capita has quadrupled in the last 20 years. we are therefore in a classic, albeit specific, case of the relationship between trade and development. we all know, and i often say in front of you, that trade liberalisation is a good thing, as long as it is accompanied by what translates growth into sustainable development, that is to say, internal social and environmental policies, without which the beneficial effects of trade liberalisation are not available. from this point of view, we consider china's accession to be an incentive for this type of better internal policy. i believe that this accession will strengthen the rule of law in china. the basic principles of transparency, non-discrimination, efficient administration and independent judicial review, which are part of the world trade organisation's acquis, will, in our view, contribute to positive developments in china's economic, legal and social systems. in any case, we have been careful throughout the negotiations to propose progressive measures to avoid exposing new sectors of the chinese economy to foreign competition overnight. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the outcome of these negotiations is balanced. we have indeed defended european interests, and our document to the council and parliament reflects this strategy. no, the consequences for china and the wto have not been without our concern. yes, membership will have a positive impact on china's further economic development and thus on further internal reforms. in any case, it is the chinese themselves who have made this choice of integration into the international economy, and that is a good thing. at the same time, we can only rejoice that taiwan is becoming a full member of an international organization for the first time, under conditions which are consistent with its economic development and its status as an industrialized country. in conclusion, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say to the house that both these results are due to the wisdom of my predecessor, sir leon brittan, who made these accessions one of the priorities of the union's trade policy. i was only finishing a job he had started with great skill and wisdom.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. (the sitting was closed at 11.15 p.m.)
- madam president, i would like to join mr bourlanges in his comments. however, we have to look at the question of mr van hulten, because when it was raised by mrs morgan earlier this week, with mr provan as chairman, he said he would look at whether it was possible to see what would happen. then perhaps you could answer mr van hulten's question and bring it to the bureau, which will meet to clarify the situation.
mr president, i am sorry mrs fontaine had to leave, so perhaps you would pass on my remarks to her. as the house will know, i spent a great deal of time studying the reform process on behalf of the house last year and continued to follow it through the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. i understand exactly the points that mrs fontaine made but, i ask you, on behalf of all members of this house, to keep us better informed of the process. this was the point that i raised back in september when i asked the presidency to give us the same level of information about the progress of the reforms as we are receiving from the commission. mr kinnock has given us a comprehensive timetable about the progress of the reform discussions. this house, these members, have no information whatsoever from the bureau about the reform process. i ask you to be much more transparent and to give us a progress report on these reforms.
mr president, i want to make a point on the european council in ghent. it is a suggestion from the eldr group, the greens and the socialists on paragraph 7, where we each have tabled an amendment, amendments nos 13, 9 and 5 respectively. the suggestion is an oral amendment to merge all of them to add at the end of paragraph 7: "which adequately represents women, respects their human rights and ensures that afghan women participate fully in building such a future".
mr president, one of the reasons that i was motivated to suggest this oral amendment which brings the three together is that in the english text, the socialist amendment does not read very well. when it says we should include a "compromise in favour of afghan women", that, in english, could be read as suggesting that we compromise the interests of afghan women. it is not a happy wording in english. it means a settlement. "compromise" is not a good translation of "compromis". that was one of the reasons why i ventured to suggest that we try to merge the three and therefore, in english, we get rid of the word "compromise", which is ambiguous.
mr president, i want to move an oral amendment, with the agreement of the rapporteur, to tidy up amendment no 3 so that it now reads: "...calls for a commitment by the world leaders gathered at the wto to coordinate measures to help developing countries tackle the impediments to growth...", etc.
mr president, i have been requested to put an oral amendment. in the spirit of compromise and in order for this amendment to passed, i suggest that we add on the end of paragraph 37: "and to assist in the fight against terrorism".
in writing. - i was delighted to vote in favour of mr poos' excellent report. as a scottish representative and member of the european free alliance section of my group, i particularly welcome paragraph 13 of the report which calls on the 'national parliaments and, in federal or heavily regionalised states, the regions [to participate in the preparation of the legislative process], including, if necessary, in the work of the council itself, in accordance with article 203 of the ec treaty. " for scotland and similar countries, it will be only a start, but it will be important. parliament is questioning the democratic deficit. to remedy this, let us make sure that we give a greater role to the parliaments involved in the creation of european law. to get all meps to engage effectively, the council must hold open and public legislative debates. we must stress that the council must have this openness and this public character, as stated in paragraph 26 of the report. the reforms strongly recommended in this report are all moving in the right direction.
in writing. -the uk conservatives strongly support european cooperation on foreign policy and the use of eu civilian instruments for conflict prevention where interests are shared. they insist, however, that national governments retain absolute sovereignty over their foreign and defence policy. we therefore oppose initiatives to establish a european diplomatic service or to make foreign policy a community matter, to extend europol's powers to operational activities, and to measures leading to the creation of a european army. we believe that nato should become the international organization of first resort; and not only for collective defence, but for all relevant crisis management missions that require the use of military capabilities.
rapporteur. – mr president, the present organisation is manifestly unsatisfactory to all the parties involved, particularly the sheep and goat farmers, but also to member states and the commission. it has allowed the income of sheep farmers to fall behind the general levels of income of other sections of the farming community. this widening gap is a serious matter when considering that large areas of the community are highly dependent on sheep and goat farming. the method of calculation of the premium is complicated and statistically suspect. the figures on which the eventual sheep premium is agreed cannot be justified in a satisfactory manner because it requires detailed information of what is happening in the market and that cannot readily be obtained nor easily substantiated. another drawback is that the premium is based on deficiency payments. this is not acceptable to the wto and is therefore a barrier to negotiations in agricultural issues generally. for farmers there is uncertainty over a 12-month period as to what annual premium will be paid eventually. because of this uncertainty the premium does not allow effective management planning. all these drawbacks were recognised by the commission and are largely reinforced by a study that was carried out prior to the preparation of the proposals which we are now debating. the commission proposal, in essence, is simpler, less bureaucratic and will be easier to understand. the fundamental difference is that it is based on a fixed annual payment. this is less objectionable to the wto and therefore will help with the overall agricultural negotiations in which the commission is involved. more importantly, from the farmers' viewpoint, the premium will be known in advance and this will make farm business decisions easier. my discussions in contact with the sheep and goat farmers of the community confirm that the proposals are broadly acceptable to them. the information that i have from member states is that it is broadly acceptable to them as well. there is agreement that it is desirable to agree the revision in time for 1 january 2002 so that the benefit to the farming community can come in as quickly as possible. the principle of the commission's proposals is broadly acceptable to the committee on agriculture and rural development, though there are differences in emphasis. the committee proposes a premium 50% higher than that put forward by the commission. the lower premium for milking-sheep and goats is rejected and a higher supplement proposed for sheep and goats in less favoured areas. there are strong pressures within the committee that the market organisation should make greater provision for national differences. a number of proposals have been put forward. they cover such matters as extensification, de-stocking and the buy-out of premium rights. there are also proposals which would allow member states to make additional headage and area payments. these would be based on objective criteria which could cover, inter alia, environmental considerations, tagging and traceability. sheep farming has not made the productivity advances seen in other agricultural sectors. amendments have been introduced calling for commission support for increased marketing promotion. targeting young people to encourage consumption will be important for success. the committee recognises that this is an interim stage and looks forward to reports from the commission on environmental impact, traceability and pasturing techniques. it is anticipated that this will lead to wider reforms in the agenda 2000 mid-term review. the agriculture committee looks to the commission for a positive response to the amendments it has proposed.
i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on his very hard work on this difficult report. farming has taken a blow over the past year in the united kingdom, and sheep farming, of course, is no exception. given the fact that 80% of my own nation – wales – is designated by the eu as less favoured and that sheep farming is the only available method of farming in many part of wales, this report has far-reaching implications for wales and its hill and upland farmers, as indeed it has for their european counterparts. i therefore welcome additional financial support for farmers situated in less-favoured areas such as wales and i urge fellow meps to support additional payments for these areas. now although this premium will not solve overnight the immediate crisis, we need to get the proposal through as quickly as possible to ensure that the sheep annual premium payments will be in place by january 2002. the original proposal was disappointing, and a lot of hard work has been put in to get the best deal possible for farmers in this regard. of course, i want to see farmers get the fairest and highest possible premium. however, we have to work within the budget, and this is why i fully support mr adam's proposal of eur 25 and am confident that the council will consider this proposal as a very viable option given the constraints. pitching the figure higher than this would lose money to other sectors including rural development. i will be voting against amendment no 21, as i believe the wording to be too vague, and i would like to see a clause stating that any money put back into the national reserve from a region or country within a member state should be ring-fenced to ensure the benefit of this fund is maintained for that particular area – that is a very important point. we must protect our sheep-farming industry because to lose more farmers from the industry would have a catastrophic effect on the make-up of rural communities where small family farms play such a vital role.
mr president, there is unanimity in the house about the importance of this reform, about how simplification is a good thing and how vitally important the sheep industry is. in all those things mr adam has done a good job. but i have to take issue with him in one contentious area which is: what is to be the level of support for sheep farmers? i am deeply disappointed that the socialists, the liberals and the nationalists are telling the house that they all intend to vote to cut the recommendation of the committee on agriculture by eur 5 at least in relation to each animal. they put that forward on the basis of the budget, but in the part of the uk that i represent, wales – just like mr wyn who is sadly no longer in his place – we have seen a huge amount of stock slaughtered because of the foot-and-mouth epidemic. we see a crippled industry. we see a situation in which there is no confidence at all in the farming industry today and, as has rightly been said, if you look to an area like wales, it is no good talking about diversification. it is no good talking about putting money into community schemes and improving public transport in rural areas. we must ensure greater financial support for sheep farmers who have no economic alternative. today there are sheep farmers in my constituency who are raising questions about whether they should even restock after foot-and-mouth. i say to mr adam this his government is not helping them by indicating that the compensation scheme that was previously in place is one that they do not intend to continue with, whilst, at the same time, not saying what they intend to put in its place. that adds to the existing desperation in the countryside. so, yet again, we hear warm words about the industry, but farmers want deeds, and this means supporting the recommendation made by the agricultural industry for the maximum amount of support for our hard-pressed sheep farmers.
mr president, first of all i would like to welcome the proposal. it is perhaps long overdue, but certainly welcome. i also take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report on this very important subject. sheep production is important especially in hill areas, not only because of the environment there and the role it plays in keeping the social fabric of society together, but because it has proven through the centuries to be one of the most important aspects of production in the agricultural sector. in the united kingdom because of foot-and-mouth, sheep farmers have suffered greatly. i recognise that in northern ireland we have had a distinct advantage over our colleagues in the mainland uk, including the prices we have been receiving recently. our producers have been very lucky. over recent years, farmers have been getting less for their sheep than they were 15 years ago and they are receiving less support. is it any wonder that young farmers and sheep farmers are actually leaving the industry? we have to ask ourselves how best we can support them. i want to make it very clear: i will support the eur 30 in the amendment in the vote in this house this afternoon. i hope all of you will be here to vote in favour of this amendment because we must give the political leadership this requires. for far too long, the sheep sector has been the poor relation. it has been the poor relation with respect to the milk, beef, tobacco and wine sectors. it has been the poor relation because it has been deemed to lack a strong voice in europe. i would like to congratulate the commission in coming forward with this proposal because it will be fairer than the present system. yes, there will be some budgetary problems but we can get over them. i ask this house for its support.
rapporteur. – mr president, commissioner fischler, the committee on fisheries accepts that in extending the rules concerning restructuring and structural assistance in the fisheries sector for one year, changes need to be made in the pilot reduction rates in order to maintain current levels. it welcomes the tightening up of provisions concerning the transfer of fishing vessels to third countries. amendment no 6 to article 1(3) asked the commission to produce a list specifying which transfers are permissible and which are not. we hope it will be acceptable to them. the committee also welcomes the possibility of financial assistance being made available where any community legislation imposes technical restrictions, but feels that parliament should be kept informed of such cases – that is amendment no 10. from this point, the committee on fisheries has difficulties with the commission proposal in that it goes beyond an extension of the rules to making three substantive changes to them. these are: removing the possibility of an increase in capacity on safety grounds; allowing financial assistance for fleet modernisation and renewal only where objectives have been met purely by reduction in capacity; and allowing such financial assistance to any segment of the fleet only where every segment of the fleet has met its objectives. in voting the report, the committee on fisheries rejected each of these three changes. the motivation was mixed, relating both to the desirability of the changes themselves and the desirability of making them in the course of a one-year extension of the programme. for example, both the committee on fisheries and the committee on legal affairs took the view that requiring every segment of the fleet to have reached its objectives before any segment could benefit from financial assistance ran counter to the principles of natural justice. similarly, the proposal that financial assistance could be given only where objectives had been met purely by a reduction in capacity seemed unfair to those fleets where capacity and activity reductions had been combined. there are also doubts about making such a change in circumstances where there is increasing agreement that a variety of measures are needed to reduce fishing effort. amendments nos 4, 7, 8 and 9 are intended to maintain the status quo in relation to both these requests. the most difficult point has concerned the removal of the possibility of capacity increases on safety grounds. the committee on fisheries is highly committed to fishing safety. there is serious concern that shipowners simply will not make safety improvements unless they are given additional capacity for this. it was also argued that abuses of the provision should be prevented by proper controls and that such a change, if to be made at all, would be more properly done in the reform of the cfp as a whole. it is largely on the capacity issue that i part company with a number of my fellow committee members. of course, we must find ways of ensuring that vessels are safe, but we can no longer afford to take risks with conservation either. the perilous state of cod stocks in the north sea is but one example. amendments nos 2, 3 and 5, approved by the committee on fisheries, reject the changes on the capacity rules altogether. amendments nos 11 and 12, submitted by the eldr group, however, accept the commission's approach in principle, but seek to allow capacity increases on safety grounds by way of exception for existing vessels under 12 metres. the justification for this exception is that taking away the possibility of financial assistance is likely to bear hardest on the sector and put safety improvements more seriously at risk in circumstances where they are likely to have only minor effects on capacity. i know that many of my colleagues – for reasons that i respect – will wish to take a different view, but i urge everyone in deciding how to vote on this report to bear in mind just how imperative the need for conservation has become.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. – mr president, it is a pleasure to speak on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, substantially in support of what my colleague, mrs attwooll, from the committee on fisheries, has said. the committee on legal affairs looks at this issue through legal spectacles, as you would expect. from our point of view, it is not just important that the objectives of the common fisheries policy be achieved, though that is indeed important. we have to remember that the means through which the community does this are means of the law, and therefore the principles of the law have to be respected in what is done. the committee on legal affairs thought that the commission's proposals fell down on two important legal principles, at two important points. the first was the principle of proportionality, and in effect mrs attwooll has already spoken about that this afternoon. in recital 3 the commission said: "measures to improve safety should not lead to an increase in fishing effort and such measures should therefore be applied within the existing capacity objectives for the fleet". that is to say that improvements in safety can be ignored just if the capacity objectives are not being sustained, regardless of effort. but the aim we all have is to prevent over-fishing, and it is effort that catches fish, not capacity. therefore proportionality requires deletion of that. secondly, in relation to the effective provisions about vicarious penalties. to require all segments of a national fleet to have achieved the annual objectives, as the commission suggests, before any public aid for fleet modernisation or renewal can be granted, would be unlawful. it is contrary to the most rudimentary principles of natural justice. it would permit one fisheries segment to be penalised for things done, or left undone, in another. it could result in fishermen being penalised for the acts or omissions of their government and would thus constitute vicarious punishment. as a scottish member, i insist that these issues matter vitally to all parts of the scottish fleet. those who meet their targets for reduction of capacity should not be punished for those who do not and should not carry the can for failures by the uk government or the scottish government.
mr president, first of all, i commend my colleague, mrs attwooll for the work she has done in this report. although we are only dealing with an extension of magp iv for one year, the commission proposals seek to reduce over-fishing and achieve the 40% reduction in effort across the eu fleet which they have been consistently pointing out is absolutely essential, if we are to have any hope of a sustainable industry in the future. i know that some controversy has arisen – and mrs attwooll mentioned this – over the question of aid for measures to improve safety in navigation; working conditions; and hygiene on board fishing vessels. it goes without saying that all of us wish to see our fishermen working in the safest, cleanest and most secure conditions. but there is no doubt that such aid has been abused in the past to increase fishing effort, leading to further over-exploitation of dwindling fish stocks. it seems to me pointless that we try to achieve a reduction in over-fishing as a core policy objective on the one hand, while continuing to facilitate cheating at the taxpayer's expense on the other. the whole point of the magp is to reduce fishing effort and bring it into better balance with the existing fish stocks. only this week the need for continued for vigilance in this area was again highlighted with the publication of the ices report on the prospects for catches in 2002. they point out that a number of fish stocks remain in a state of great jeopardy, particularly cod, although they also point out that there have been slight improvements in haddock and whiting stocks in the north sea. in that respect i was horrified to read that danish fisheries inspectors last month boarded a danish industrial fishing boat and discovered 114 tonnes of juvenile cod in a 543 tonne total catch that was supposed to be composed entirely of sand eels. pulverising valuable young haddock into fishmeal to feed to salmon in the fish farming sector is complete madness. it is a crime against everything we are trying to achieve. i hope that when we come to vote on this report later today, we bear in mind that the whole point of magp philosophy is to reduce over-exploitation and nothing we do in applying public aid to the eu fleet should undermine that principle.
mr president, i should like to add my thanks to the rapporteur, a fellow scot, for her work on this document, and likewise to my snp colleague, mr maccormick, for leading the committee on legal affairs' consideration of this report which i support. the size of our fishing fleet in the european union is one of the greatest problems that we are faced with when considering cfp reform, but the real measure of activity should be effort as opposed to fleet size. in order to secure what we all want, sustainable fisheries, then surely fishing effort must be made to correspond to available resources. i agree with the need to extend magp4, but i have some concerns, in three areas in particular. firstly, it is intolerable that safety has been taken out of the equation. the provisions that currently exist to increase objectives on grounds of safety should be maintained. we should be looking for tighter control and management to ensure that these provisions are not used to circumvent the rules. safety must remain a priority and i hope the commission will recognise this and also make up for its failure to include adequate provisions on safety in the green paper. secondly, while there must be penalties for non-implementation of magp targets, surely they must be targeted at the guilty parties. it must be wrong to penalise one segment directly for the acts or omissions of another. it is also necessary to make sure that those member states which claim to have met their magp targets are not simply transferring their vessels to other flags. thirdly, the proposals which limit financial assistance from fifg to segments where reduction of fishing effort is obtained through capacity reductions only seems to me unjust and would discriminate against fishermen whose member states choose to reduce effort through schemes such as days at sea. one reason why these targets are not met is that some member state governments have not been prepared to match funding for restructuring. the commission must look at ways of ensuring that restructuring funds can be distributed in an equitable fashion throughout the eu fishing industry. there is a need for more standardised and more rigorous assessment procedures right across the eu. only if we have fixed, clear and comparable criteria for the measurement of vessels, including engine power and tonnage, can there be confidence in the targets that are set by magps.
in writing. - uk labour meps in the european parliament voted in favour of a 25 euro premium for sheep, which represents a 20% increase on the commission's proposed figure. our objective was to give sheep and goat producers an increase in the annual premium, while remaining within the limits of the expenditure set in agenda 2000 and keeping us on track for the reform of the cap. the incomes of sheep farmers have not followed the evolution of incomes for other types of livestock. the decision taken will correct this imbalance. since the payment will be made on an annual basis and will be known in advance, this will help producers in planning their activities. we particularly stress the importance we attach to increased marketing support to encourage consumption, and we hope that the commission will act diligently.
chairman of the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs. – madam president, on behalf of the committee i have the honour to chair, i would ask that this topic be reinserted on this week's agenda, since, contrary to the advice given to the conference of presidents last week, the justice and home affairs council will be discussing it at its meeting this friday. this evening the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs will adopt a text, drafted in cooperation with the committee on budgetary control and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, which we believe is a strong basis for a parliament resolution on this matter. if it is not possible to have a debate in plenary with the council, we request authorisation to submit this text to the plenary in the form of a draft recommendation for a vote on thursday, pursuant to article 39 of the treaty and rule 94 of our rules of procedure.
madam president, according to the british press today six algerian nationals were arrested over the weekend by the french security services. they are allegedly associated with the terrorist group al-qa'ida and with the five people arrested last year found in possession of maps which marked out the parliament buildings in strasbourg and the cathedral. given the proximity both in place and time to our current part-session, what information does the president have on their hostile intentions towards parliament? given the current climate of suspicion, with another crash in new york of an airliner this evening, what additional security measures will be taken to protect us? i, for instance, was allowed into parliament this evening without even showing my security pass. what measures can be taken to protect us, given this danger?
madam president, i have no more information than you on this series of arrests. no-one has informed me about it but i am sure that will happen in the course of the evening and i will then tell mr tannock. i should like to point out, though, that whilst we welcome the new security on the periphery, this building has to operate in the interests of members. i hope that the bureau will reconsider the question of security and try to fine-tune it somewhat, because far too many members are having their visitors and other groups seriously inconvenienced by the way the rules are being applied. they can be applied a little more subtly. i hope we can do that. as regards mr tannock's question, i will find out what i can and inform him and the house.
madam president, while mr dupuis was held in laos last week, a large number of your colleagues, including myself, were detained in brussels airport for eight hours, from 3 p.m. to 11 p.m., because the government of belgium would not ensure the free movement of european citizens around europe, including that of meps. we could not get out of brussels at all; we had to go back, and in the end departed from charleroi the next day. it took me 23 hours to get home. could you make representations to the belgian government, and to other governments, for that matter, to the effect that all european citizens, not just meps, should be entitled to free movement in europe and that unjustified and illegal blockades of airports should be dealt with by the authorities in the proper manner?
madam president, you will know that the city of strasbourg is twinned with the city of leicester, my home city. the lord mayor of leicester, councillor john allen and the lady mayoress, mrs allan, are in the public gallery. this twinning is an important political and social union and i very much hope you will welcome the lord mayor and the lady mayoress here in strasbourg. (applause)
madam president, i rise to draw your attention to a report broadcast by the bbc last week, about child trafficking between european union countries and west africa. this was a most disturbing report and i will send it to your services. on behalf of colleagues in this house who i know are very concerned about these issues, i ask that you raise this subject with the commission and the member states and ask whether action can be taken across the european union to stamp out this appalling abuse of young people from a very deprived part of the world.
madam president, on a point of order. it would be a pity if no member from the united kingdom were to stand up and say to mr alyssandrakis that we are also deeply concerned at this proposal and we hope it will not go through unchallenged.
madam president, since you have announced that the votes will start at 11.30 a.m. on thursday, could you tell me what will happen to my report on the european year of people with disabilities? it would be very wrong if a report dealing with disabled people's rights were put back to thursday afternoon when most of the members are not here and most of the members will not be here to vote. we are very remiss about disabled people's rights in this parliament in terms of access. it would demonstrate a great lack of awareness of the problems that disabled people face if we do not give them some degree of respect by scheduling this debate at a time when members will be present to debate and vote on this important issue.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs. – mr president, i wish to begin by thanking mrs maij-weggen for her comments. i have heartily enjoyed the way we have worked together on this and i am pleased to say that the work in her report represents our joint work. i also accept what she has said on the amendments. before i speak further, i should like the services to rule whether amendment no 17 from the green group is admissible, because it seeks to rewrite the regulation. it calls on parliament to adopt criteria for the definition of sensitive information and documents. now the definition of sensitive documents is contained in the regulation, article 9, reference to article 4(1)(a). i should again like to thank mrs maij-weggen for her consistent approach to transparency and openness. it is absolutely right that we adopt changes to our rules of procedure so that we not only conform to the regulation on access to documents but can also begin to be held accountable by the citizens whom we purport to represent. therefore, now that commissioner barnier is here, it is important for me to refer to some of my concerns about the entry into force of this regulation on 3 december 2001. when the regulation enters into force, the citizen's right of access to institution documents will no longer be a discretionary concession but a fundamental right, rooted in article 255. as no other legal basis on access to documents is provided in the treaty, the regulation on article 255 will be the framework for all other secondary legislation and for the internal rules of the institutions, which should be in conformity with it. the commission, therefore, has the responsibility to present formal proposals to repeal or amend secondary legislation which is not coherent with the principles and limits defined in article 18(3) of the regulation. this is extremely important if we are to bring this regulation into force. similarly, on the wider definition of institutions and the bodies and agencies, the commission is mandated by recital 8 and by the joint statement to review the rules of agencies and, where necessary to propose amendments as soon as possible. on the matter of the interinstitutional committee – and all of these points are relevant if we are ourselves adopting changes to the rules of procedure – the council presidency has said that it believes the interinstitutional committee should operate at secretary-general level. this differs from the opinion of president prodi and of parliament. though i hesitate to say this, it is nonsense to suggest that secretaries-general should sit in this interinstitutional committee. the whole point of political presence is political accountability. finally, mrs maij-weggen has done an excellent job on this and now is the time for the commission to ensure that the treaty is respected and that the regulations flowing therefrom are brought before parliament.
mr president, it is customary to thank rapporteurs but we genuinely want to pay tribute to mrs maij-weggen for the work she has done on this. i would like to echo what mrs malmström has just said about the urgency of transparency and openness, especially in parliament and i would like to endorse mr cashman's remark that this must be taken as a political responsibility. we, as elected politicians, are responsible to our electorate for ensuring that all proceedings are as open as possible. with that in mind, i should like briefly to mention the amendments in the name of our group. i hope mrs maij-weggen will accept the first one, extending the rules to cover all committees. i only have limited experience of being a vice-chairman of the recent echelon committee, but i see no reason why special committees and committees of inquiry should not be bound. the further extension later in the amendment that broads out the range of documents from members which count as parliamentary documents is helpful as well. i hope that will be accepted. on the question of political responsibility, it seems to us that for some questions the conference of presidents would be a better organ to decide matters than the bureau, in the sense that in the conference of presidents people are representing their political party, whereas in the bureau people are supposed to speak for the parliament as a whole, rather than putting forward a political case. our third amendment suggests that we need a parliamentary definition of sensitive documents. mr cashman has challenged the validity of this. we think that within our rules, there is room for an expanded definition in relation to parliamentary documents. we will check that and withdraw the amendment if, on reflection, we think we have gone too far. finally, we should like a split vote in relation to the adoption of security rules for the ep to leave out the words ‘on the basis of a proposal from the bureau’ which would again push the responsibility back on to the conference of presidents. however we very much appreciate the spirit in which mrs maij-weggen has put this forward and we are grateful for her willingness to look carefully at our amendments. parliaments must be transparent. it is very sad that the more we open our glass-houses, the less people seem to look into them. the media need to help in this as well. if this parliament is to be transparent it must be reported, as well as open.
mr. president, i also wish to congratulate mrs maij-weggen and mr cashman on this second success. they already deserve our congratulations on their work on the original legislation, council and parliament regulation 1049/2001, where their work was crucial in securing that positive result. now they are coming back to translate that into our rules of procedure to ensure that our work is transparent. it is arguable that the european union is in some ways already more transparent than some of our member states. it certainly does not reach the highest standards set by some of our member states, but we are moving in the right direction, although of course it is still not perfect. however we will review it in a few years in the light of experience. looking at the package of amendments to our rules of procedure tabled by the committee on constitutional affairs, i can say on behalf of my group that we will support the thrust of what the committee on constitutional affairs has put forward. we shall listen to the arguments that are being put forward in this debate and then review our position again, but our group is leaning towards accepting amendment no 14 from the ppe-de group, the first half of amendment no 15 from the verts/ale group, and possibly amendment no 16 from the verts/ale group. we are opposed to the second half of amendment no 15 from the verts/ale group, which is entirely unworkable and would raise a number of practical problems if it were adopted. as mr cashman explained, we question whether amendment no 17 from the verts/ale group it is admissible, and i welcome the fact that mr maccormick was doubtful about that. i gather it may well be withdrawn and i would welcome that. that is the position of our group, subject to the arguments we are listening to now. however, whatever happens to those particular amendments, i am quite confident that there will be a successful outcome in the vote tomorrow.
mr president, i add my congratulations to mrs maij-weggen for an excellent report. it is quite clear that parliament must get its own house in order after the agreements we have had vis-à-vis the commission. access is important but too much lip service is paid to access. i thought that at the beginning mr corbett was being rather congratulatory. i agree with him that we are moving in the right direction, but we still have a long way to go. i want to bring to parliament's attention the specific problem that the committee on petitions is still experiencing with access to documentation. i know the problem here is largely the commission, but it impacts on parliament. a number of european citizens have petitioned this parliament about problems with lloyds of london. a very detailed questionnaire was sent to the british government. only members of the petitions committee have been allowed to see that questionnaire; no other members of parliament. even members of the petitions committee, behind closed doors, are not allowed to have any legal advisers, or political advisers, and are not allowed to take copies. nobody in parliament has been allowed to see the reply from the british government. mr bolkestein said that he cannot reveal this information because it could be subject to legal action by the commission against the british government. the british government reply was that they would not let us see it because they regard it as an informal communication at the request of the petitions committee by the commission. twenty-one detailed questions to the british government and the british government says that it is an informal communication! we want some clarity here, so that we know precisely what we do and do not have access to. at present, members, committees and parliament itself cannot do their jobs properly because of excessive secrecy. i would certainly urge that a representative – the chairman of the petitions committee – should be on the interinstitutional committee so that citizens know that the members of this parliament who look after their interests ensure that this secrecy does not go any deeper than it does at present.
mr president, this proposed set of amendments to our rules of procedure that has been so ably drafted by our rapporteur is intended to resolve a contradiction. in one sense it is a very simple matter: we either resolve it one way or we resolve it the other way. in the view of myself and many in my group, it is not absolutely crucial whether it be resolved this way or that. there are arguments in favour of either solution. some of these arguments have been put with great clarity in this short debate. but resolved it must be, one way or the other. as is so often the case when things are relatively simple, everybody has an opinion and these opinions do not entirely coincide. some people have a preference for the solution that has been put forward by the committee. others prefer the solution that has been tabled in an amendment signed by several political groups. the vote tomorrow will determine which way we go. either way, it is crucial that we settle this tomorrow. it needs to be sorted out before the constituent sitting in january. i concur with our rapporteur that it is somewhat of a scandal that this report has been sat on for over a year since it was adopted in the committee and is only coming now, almost at the last minute, to plenary to be settled. it should have been settled a long time ago. i congratulate the rapporteur on his patience. i am glad he was still able to remember the crucial arguments underpinning his report a whole year after he steered it through the committee.
rapporteur. – mr president, as you would expect, i will concentrate on my own report, which deals with the establishment of joint investigation teams. i am very proud to be the rapporteur in an extremely innovative area, which has taken on great importance following the appalling events of 11 september. it is perhaps all the more important because we are trying to implement article 13 of the eu convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters which, although it was signed in may 2000, looks unlikely to be ratified for some time, making it vital that we have a legal framework in place as quickly as possible so that we can take these matters forward. joint investigation teams will allow two or more countries to join together for the purposes of investigating terrorism, human trafficking, drug trafficking and indeed other serious organised crime. this is an important venture which we must all support. a joint investigation team will take the talent and ability from different member states and join them together for a purpose which is clearly defined and with a clear termination date, but in a way which will allow that expertise to work effectively and sharply in dealing with criminality and with bringing criminals to book. it will be a flexible instrument and one which we have been in need of for some time. there have been concerns expressed, although not followed up in amendments, about the extent of participation in such teams. for instance, there have been references to the national criminal intelligence services of member states. as a minister responsible in the united kingdom for setting up our own national criminal intelligence service a few years ago, i am very confident that the make-up of these organisations in member states is already well addressed. by giving those setting up the teams the discretion to determine their composition and to express objections when necessary, it seems to me that this point has been tackled very effectively. although all the states concerned are signatories to our human rights convention, i have nevertheless asked in this report that we draw particular attention to the need to protect and preserve human rights in the conduct of these teams. terrorism is uppermost in our minds at present. but trafficking in human beings is something else we should be deeply concerned about and something which these teams could perhaps help with. only recently it has been revealed in the united kingdom that there are hundreds, even thousands, of young children who have been sold into the slave trade from other parts of the world and are now in europe suffering the most appalling treatment. there has been a case of this nature in the uk, and there has also been a recent case in italy. the operation of joint investigation teams, say between italy and ourselves, or with the participation of the french expertise in this area, would help to bring this sort of appalling offence to an end. so the report does not concern just terrorism but these other matters too. indeed it may also be possible to make a significant impact on a whole complex of issues currently of topical interest comprising fraud, money laundering and economic crime of that kind, if the talents and abilities of specific small teams able to operate in different countries can be brought to bear under the control of a single operation. there is one further point. i have made quite clear in my report that it is important that all these operations should be under the clear parliamentary control of the european parliament. within the annual debate on the area of freedom, security and justice, this particular debate should go forward as well. we should be sure that we consider these operations carefully. finally, a lot of sensitive information may emerge as a result of this process. if something akin to a select committee were perhaps to be established to receive such confidential information, that could also help to boost confidence in the operation of these teams, which are a very important and significant development in crime prevention in the european union.
mr president, it is not often that i completely agree with my colleague in the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs, mr von boetticher, but this time i agree with him that we need a national choice regime to allow opt-out on e-mails and i am speaking against the socialist amendments. there is one great myth that has gripped the left and that is that spam is the same as unsolicited e-mail. i am afraid to say, commissioner, that the commission is at the root of this confusion. in your original proposal you said that spam equals unsolicited e-mails. it is not true. i am afraid the spammers who are already breaking the law are going to carry on breaking the law. mrs paciotti, you will continue to get spam! i support the opt-out on two grounds. the first is that opt-in will unjustifiably harm both business and charities. big american firms can afford tv advertising, press, billboard and so on. we are going to damage small- and medium-sized european firms for whom commercial e-mail provides a legitimate way into e-commerce. it is going to put them at a disadvantage. it is going to put charities at a disadvantage and studies show that people do not mind receiving them. they will not opt out even if they could. but of course it is human nature not to opt in to get them. there is also a misunderstanding about the civil liberties implications. under opt-out, it is very easy to show that you have opted out and reputable senders have no interest in ignoring your request because they will just irritate you. opt-in is superficially pro-consumer, but you would have to prove that you never opted in, which is actually more difficult. finally, under an opt-in regime, people might opt to receive mailings from organisations that could be embarrassing for them, such as gay organisations when they did not wish to come out, or they could be open to malicious abuse. if they opted in to get mailings from subversive political movements they could find themselves attracting unwarranted surveillance from the police, for instance. the left has got it wrong and for once mr von boetticher is right.
mr president, unusually for me i can stand here and say that virtually everything has been said. i agree with mr von boetticher and mr cappato and especially with baroness ludford. we are all members of the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs; we have adopted a position and we have not rushed into it just because we have been bullied and lobbied on the internet and via the fax machines that are in all our offices. we have to be very careful about legislating on the hoof. i have to say to the commission that what it is proposing is wrong and hurried. in 2003 we will have a very good opportunity, in the e-commerce directive, to gather the information and the wisdom obtained from those member states which have chosen either to opt in or to opt out. we must only propose and adopt legislation on the basis of good counsel and good experience. we must never underestimate the civil liberties implications to which baroness ludford has rightly alerted this house. at this time, when we perhaps are being a little over-assertive with some of the legislation we are bringing forward, i do not want anyone to have to confirm why they have opted to receive, for instance, ammunition weekly or why they have chosen to get some information from amnesty international. the internet has freed people from dictatorships and oppressors, and yet here we are introducing a kind of censorship by the back door. it is wrong and ill-informed. the commissioner may shake his head and smile, but does he want to have to explain to a government agency or some other agency why he has chosen to opt in? that is not freedom: that is being answerable for using a service that is intended to free you. on the issue of the right of privacy: we all have the right of privacy, but that right cannot be imposed on individuals. individuals choose the right of privacy and then legislation backs it up. on the matter of unsolicited commercial e-mail: not all uce is spam. here again the commission has played right into the hands of those who want to drive jobs out of the eu and who pretend that, just because the eu is imposing a ban on sending uces within its territory, such a ban will be respected by people in japan, the philippines, the usa or anywhere else. finally, on spamming, i myself have been spammed. my name has been put on various lists and the spam comes in. that has been done by individuals who have opted me in to the lists held by the spammers. i have a very good option: i have a filter, i have a delete button. we must encourage people to use the technology and stop being their nannies. please support the cappato report, as amended.
mr president, tonight british members from three different political parties and other colleagues are going to be in agreement, which is a rare occurrence. i am not a member of the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs, but i particularly want to commend mr cappato and colleagues here tonight for their courageous stand in amending the commission's original proposal. i was sorry that we did not uphold all of mr cappato's report last time. this compromise has all the hallmarks of a compromise. in other words it is not terribly satisfactory but at least it is better than the original proposal from the commission, and the amendment by the socialist group which i hope will not be supported tomorrow. we have to consider this essentially a transitional piece of work. i think everyone here tonight is working on legislation in the electronic age. i have worked on the e-commerce directive, the copyright directive and we are working on the electronic communications bills. what is quite clear is the immense pace and change of technology and the reconstruction of markets that is going on all the time. as a number of colleagues have said tonight, the world of electronic communications is offering immense benefits to the citizens, whether it is in their own personal access to charities or political parties or in the marketplace. what some colleagues want to do, is to shut that down. clearly we cannot do that because it operates on a global level. that is where the spam is coming from. so we have promised something to our citizens we cannot deliver. clearly we have to work towards a global solution that will be driven by technology. we want a global format that will allow people to tag their e-mail messages by sender and by subject. we can have the technology to give people complete control. if we adopt this proposal and pass this amendment, we will be walking away from the opportunity to create the right environment so that people can really benefit from the immense power of the new communications world.
mr president, i welcome this report and would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. however, i would first of all like to highlight my concern that the current debate has consistently failed to acknowledge the failure of many member states to implement existing community legislation in this area. the latest commission report, together with numerous mission reports, has highlighted that there is a serious disregard of animal welfare in some countries. the commission must show a much greater willingness to initiate infringement proceedings against member states which fail to enforce this directive properly. with respect to journey times, i hope the commission will follow the recommendations of their scientific advisory committees and propose workable limits that allow businesses to function effectively, whilst maintaining a high standard of animal welfare. i will be supporting the 8-hour or 500-kilometre limit, and strongly support the view that the climate conditions of each member state should also be taken into consideration. however, in areas where these journey times are unrealistic, a temporary dispensation to the maximum 8-hour travelling time should be granted where there are no slaughterhouses within a radius of 500 kilometres. i am thinking particularly, in the uk, of the islands of western scotland, and of other parts of the european union that are affected adversely in that regard. although putting a limit on journey times is an important step forward, the treatment of animals en route, vehicle ventilation, overcrowding, and the definition of space and temperature requirements during transport etc. are equally important issues. the recent foot-and-mouth crisis provided evidence enough that the unnecessary long-distance transport of animals was a factor in the quick spread of that disease. i look forward to the commission's policy plan scheduled for 1 january 2003 aimed at the regionalisation of meat production chains, so as to limit the long-distance transport of live animals in future.
- the agenda calls for a vote on requests for urgent debate, pursuant to rule 112 of the rules of procedure. proposal for a council regulation to promote the conversion of vessels and fishermen who were until 1999 dependent on the fisheries agreement with morocco [com (2001) 384 - c5-0407/2001 - 2001/0163 (cns) ]
chairman of the committee on budgets. – mr president, the committee on budgets is sympathetic to the needs of our friends in the committee on fisheries. however, a conciliation meeting will be taking place on 21 november and it is not yet agreed between the different institutions how the agreement will be finalised, or indeed in what category it will be finalised. in the light of a decision by the budgets council last week, there is a great deal of confusion on our side as to how we are going to deal with this. i would ask that we do not treat this as urgent and that it be held over until after the conciliation meeting of 21 november.
the commission. the situation is known. the fisheries agreement with morocco has not been renewed, which means that the fishing sector in spain and partly in portugal is now in a difficult situation. the commission has also responded to the council's request by proposing a restructuring programme, and i should like to say again that this is not a fisheries agreement with mauritania, but a restructuring programme for the spanish fleet and part of the portuguese fleet. it's about paying scrappage premiums. it is a question of providing for social measures. i think it is right to say on the one hand that we should dissociate the budgetary question from the legal basis. the commission is asking for a speedy examination of the legal basis for this restructuring programme. that is why we support the urgency motion.
mr president, i oppose urgency on a matter of principle, not on a matter of substance. i am sure we all support a global health fund and president prodi guaranteed eur 120 million at the g8 meeting in july. however, i and many others are extremely disappointed that the commission has taken until november to come forward with any effective suggestions and now it is asking for urgency, effectively denying the council and parliament any time to debate or amend this proposal. it looks as if we are just going to hand over a cheque and that will be the end of it. the commission is also suggesting the funding should be found by taking eur 60 million from a fishing agreement and eur 60 million from the edf. in its resolution in this house on 25 october this house emphasised that contributions should be new and additional funding, and this is not so. at the moment it looks as if it is a one-off payment. i would like to hear the commission guarantee that a legal base will be found for the sustainable funding of the global health fund after 2000 and submitted as quickly as possible. i would like an assurance that it will be new money and that parliament and the council will be kept fully informed and involved, so that we play a legislative part in this process. we, as parliamentarians, cannot be treated in this way.
chairman of the committee on budgets. – mr president, there is no point in talking about old money or new money when there is no money! (laughter)if we do not get agreement on this matter this year with urgent procedure, there will be no money next year for the global health fund. i know there are problems about getting eur 60 million from the edf but, quite frankly, that is another argument. if we want eur 60 million from the general budget, we have to agree to using urgent procedure on this or there will be no money for the global health fund.
mr president, on a point of order. having heard the commissioner and the budget spokesman, i am happy to withdraw my objection.
- the agenda calls for the presentation of the annual report of the court of auditors for the year 2000.
mr president, i would also like to pass on my best regards to mr karlsson, thank him for his presentation and all the work he has done over the past few years. i hope he will pass on our thanks to his other colleagues who are also leaving. we must remember that this report is the first report which assesses the first full year of the prodi commission – a commission which, let us remind ourselves, was appointed with the specific remit of radical overhaul and reform of the european union. the question we will be asking in our discharge procedure this year is: "is the commission delivering on that promise?". let us be clear. if it is not, then the credibility of both the prodi commission and of this parliament is on the line. it is much too early to assess the success or failure of the prodi commission and of commission reform. the only question we can ask at this point is whether we are headed in the right direction. mr karlsson, i noted your words last night. there are a number of hopeful signs in this report. so, where the commission has specific responsibility, we do seem to be seeing some positive developments. as you say, the strategy on bse is basically sound. the work of the agency charged with the reconstruction of kosovo was efficient and economical. the reform programme is heading in the right direction. you have approved the recasting of the financial regulation and the commission's proposals on financial incentives for top grade officials, although i note that you have some concerns about the commission's accounting mechanisms. perhaps mrs schreyer could comment on that. we are not going to let the commission off the hook. there is a large area where the commission has joint responsibility with the member states, particularly in the agricultural sector and the structural funds. the primary responsibility must lie with the member states. they are responsible for 85% of the budget. here we see some serious structural weaknesses. in the structural funds, we see problems in the application of regulations at every level. the cap accounts for over 40% of the budget and where member states are responsible there is no improvement. heads of stock continue be overstated. we know that belgium, denmark, ireland and the netherlands have not signed the convention on the protection of financial interests. we are disappointed, mr karlsson, that you did not mention them by name in the report. again the court has failed to give a statement of assurance to the commission. as i said last night, this is a complicated and ever-changing procedure and i do not believe the commission will ever get a statement of assurance. so the main message, as far as i can see, is that the commission should keep going. it is on the right track. member states must stop hiding behind the commission and assume their proper responsibility of protecting eu taxpayers' money.
- before i give the floor to mr karlsson, i would like to say on behalf of parliament that we appreciate the fruitful cooperation we have enjoyed during the years of his presidency. we wish you the best of luck in the future. mr. blak may have given you the ultimate compliment, saying that a dane regrets a swede. it's like a scot saying he wants england to win a football match. that was a real compliment. thank you for your cooperation.
- this debate is over.
- the next item is the report (a5-380/2001) by mr lehne, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 91/308/eec on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering (pe-cons 3654/2001 - c5-0496/2001 - 1999/0152 (cod)).
mr president, one of the biggest gaps in the anti-money laundering regime has been that it only applied to financial institutions. as successive international reports have made clear, lawyers and other professionals become vulnerable to exploitation as unwitting accomplices in the washing of dirty money from criminals and terrorists as banks tighten up, which, i am glad to say, they are at last having to do. i regard the outcome of the conciliation on this directive as satisfactory if it is interpreted in a common sense way. that means that lawyers, accountants and tax advisers must, outside a strict definition of legal privilege, report transactions that are suspicious, in other words, that they have reason to believe their client is involved in money laundering. this is the only feasible interpretation. there has been a huge amount of hype on this directive aimed at protecting lawyers' vested interests and not, i am afraid to say, individual rights. this has delayed the finalisation of the directive for an unnecessary six months. parliament has not exactly covered itself with glory. i hope all member states will declare that they have no intention of invoking the option to exempt lawyers from the ban on tipping off clients that the authorities have been alerted. we need to make sure that our legal and financial systems are not exploited, rather than concentrating on the position of the lawyers themselves and their own self-interest.
mr president, i should like to congratulate our rapporteur on taking this important issue forward and also to congratulate the commission on a very good consultation document on contract law. we have made a good start in what is a very politically sensitive area. although we might see the practical arguments for moving forward because of the advent of the euro and because of e-commerce, we have to ensure that our citizens are also comfortable with this. every time we talk about approximation of core civil law subjects, i see scare stories in the english press that english common law is about to be replaced by the code napoléon, complete with a small picture of napoleon. last week english contract law was supposed to be under threat. however misguided some of this comment might be, we have to respect the concerns and deal with them. the process outlined in this report will allow us to do so. the commission has made some very pragmatic suggestions about contract law, which i hope the council will act on. it was, after all, the council that brought forward this idea of convergence in the tampere agenda. we must insist that the area of freedom and justice referred to there is as much about civil law as about criminal law. the tampere conclusions foresaw convergence in civil law. convergence is a long process, not an abrupt event. it is not about imposing a european civil code. it is about channelling and guiding developments in community law to give us a more coherent and less piecemeal approach, ultimately allowing more knowledge of the law and greater access to justice across europe's internal market. in considering these matters, we would do much better to concentrate on what draws us together in europe's common legal heritage. all our legal traditions owe something to the early modern fusion of feudal, roman and canon law called ius commune. we now have the chance to guide and structure the modern reconvergence of our legal systems. we should welcome that opportunity.
mr president, there was a time when europeans travelled all over the universities of europe and studied what was still a common law based on the roman law. indeed, in my own country, scotland, that lasted until the 17th century, during which 6000 members of the faculty of advocates of scotland at various times studied in the universities of utrecht and leiden. that kind of interaction of lawyers is one of the things which contributed most to our civilisation and from which our legal civilisation has grown. so this is a very good project and the time-tabling suggested by mr lehne and the commission is feasible and worthwhile. nevertheless, as mrs wallis has said, legal traditions are valued objects. people concern themselves greatly about the coherence and integrity of a legal order. therefore it must be with great sensitivity that we move forward in bringing back together again legal systems and legal traditions through the kinds of common definition that mr lehne is suggesting. with that in mind, i have one doubt and it involves a difference with what mr medina ortega has just said. clause 14 of the report suggests that a regulation is really the best way to take this forward. the difficulty relates to subsidiarity. if these things are to be done well, common definitions will have to be sensitively adapted and grafted into what are very deep and organic legal traditions. you cannot do that by thrusting a regulation down the throats of the legal community. we in the united kingdom have two legal systems, rather distinct, and it is going to be absolutely vital for this development that both are adequately and properly represented in further discussions, as they have been on bodies like the lando commission in the past.
in writing. -en) the british labour socialist group voted in favour of the national choice on whether or not member states should apply the provisions on the receipt of unsolicited commercial e-mail. that is the compromise reached in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the revision of the e-commerce directive in 2003 will give us the opportunity to propose measures based on the experience of member states that have chosen to apply or not to apply these provisions. it is essential that any new e-commerce measure be based on direct experience of all players in the sector, including consumers. in the area of data retention, we think, following a second reading, that we should consider other amendments.
in writing. -(en) i fully support this excellent report by mr maurizio turco which calls for the extension of europol's mandate and the addition of other non-binding agreements. if europol's mandate is extended to cover serious forms of organised crime, such as kidnapping, trafficking in illegal immigrants and racism, it will become an institution with real powers and can be seen as an organisation working in the interests and security of european citizens. in addition, the swedish proposal to allow the transmission of personal data received from europol by third countries is particularly important. we all know that crime in the 21st century knows no borders, and as such the eu should not and cannot let europol operate in a vacuum. it is therefore essential that europol works in collaboration with third countries, as only then can its full effectiveness be achieved.
in writing. -(en) i fully support the excellent report by mr timothy kirkhope calling for a framework decision on joint investigation teams. this decision would pave the way for the full implementation of the eu convention which encourages mutual assistance in criminal matters. police cooperation at european level is a relatively recent and innovative idea. without cooperation in such cases, member states cannot hope to individually combat and eliminate the new types of crime that all member states' police forces are currently facing. the report also calls for the creation of joint investigation teams which should not only be able to combat drug trafficking and human trafficking but also tackle organised crime. once joint investigations are effectively established and the member states are fully aware of their effectiveness, their powers could and should be extended to include such cases. finally, as the report emphasises, the european parliament has a useful and real role to play in the area of joint initiatives. the desire to create a kind of evaluation mechanism, whereby the council would provide explanations and report to the european parliament on the effectiveness of joint initiatives, will make this procedure even more open and transparent, and therefore more legitimate.
in writing. -i fully support the excellent report by mr maat which reviews the 1995 directive designed to ensure the protection of animals to be transported over long distances. the report is balanced and fair in that it acknowledges the possible negative role played initially by community legislation. this has led to the closure of many small slaughterhouses at first, and has made the transport of animals more necessary and widespread. the report also presents the current unfortunate situation where the provisions of the 1995 directive are often flouted and where some member states do not apply existing legislation. the call for increased protection of animals during transport is both necessary and commendable. as the report points out, there should be legal measures under which countries that do not comply with the rules should be able to be fined. this should have a real and tangible deterrent effect on potential offenders. in addition to the call for more substantial and stricter legislation in this area, concrete measures are proposed, such as encouraging the opening of small slaughterhouses. finally, the report calls for stricter measures to be applied in third countries as well. this is both a positive and constructive approach given that member states import livestock from third countries and it would be counterproductive for these improved rules to be applied exclusively within the eu, ignoring unfair practices outside its borders.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. – mr president, it is with particular pleasure that i contribute to the debate on a very important report dealing with the opening of the market to competition in key parts of our public sector. the committee on legal affairs considered that the key elements of the proposals were sound, but differed in its opinion on a number of key issues. firstly, some of the amendments proposed gave exemptions to what are known as integrated transport systems, yet we all know that transport, and particularly integrated transport, is a matter of organisation and not ownership. this would merely be protectionism by the back door. secondly, there was concern that some of the proposals would allow for predatory bidding by exempted sectors for those parts of the transport industry which, in the case of my own country for example, are already liberalised. thirdly, the de minimis provisions failed to meet realistic levels to allow competition to take place in the open market. finally, there was concern that the level of public subsidy taken into account in drawing up contracts would not allow the continuation of socially needed routes nor provide adequate recognition of contribution towards fares, for example for the less fortunate, such as the elderly or disabled. the report which finally emerged goes some way to addressing these issues. however, i fear that some of the amendments included in the final report would also introduce extraneous non-commercial considerations into what should be a completely open and transparent competitive system within the eu. for example, the issues already mentioned relating to environment and social policy are not in themselves relevant to the contract tendering process but should be dealt with under separate legislation. that is why i draw your attention to these matters and why this report should be seen as merely the first step towards the liberalisation of the market in this sector and not as an end in itself.
mr president, to get legal clarity on tendering rules in the eu, unfortunately the committee voted to delete most of the specific exemptions in favour of one very wide one, amendment no 61. but it is open to legal and political challenge to simply cite democratic decision-making as a justification for exemption from eu legal rules for the internal market. i therefore commend the specific amendments from the eldr group – amendments nos 110 to 112. these would mean that authorities would be justified in not tendering metro and tram services if there were good reasons of cost, safety or risk of creating a permanent private monopoly rather than competition. any claim for exemption would have to be justified to the european commission. in addition, there are provisions for direct award of contracts in the absence of tenders or in emergencies. i appeal in particular to the left of this house. you take a big risk if you rely only on amendments nos 61 and 62. they may not survive the course and as an insurance policy we need specific provisions to protect large complex metro systems like london's from being split up for tendering or risking becoming a private monopoly.
mr president, as one of the previous speakers said, what we are all after is the best possible public transport at the lowest possible cost. as another speaker said, we need appropriate solutions for each particular environment. that is the main reason why the principle that local authorities can be free to decide how best to organise public transport within their own areas is such an important one. i would like to make a few comments about running metro systems in large urban areas such as london, where there is a real danger that if we do not allow local authorities to make those decisions, the contracting out will lead to the creation of a monopoly and we will not be any further forward in what we are trying to achieve with this report. the other thing that could happen in areas such as london and other large cities is that the system could be broken up, which could lead to quite severe chaos. so i would urge you all to support amendment no 61.
mr president, i strongly support the principle that high quality and reasonably priced public transport should be available in all areas. however, this report is particularly important to my constituency, wales, due to issues relating to concessionary travel. the welsh national assembly has introduced a scheme, which will come into force next spring, whereby local bus travel will be free for all pensioners in all areas of wales. the scheme would offer free bus passes and free travel on local buses and would theoretically enable pensioners to travel throughout wales if they wanted to without paying a penny. whilst i appreciate the importance of ensuring that groups such as disabled people, schoolchildren and trainees are also eligible for reduced cost public transport, it would be ridiculous to undo the good work the national assembly has done for pensioners in wales by preventing pensioners enjoying concessionary travel under this regulation. i am pleased that the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism has already voted to abolish the ceiling on concessionary fares that was proposed by the commission, thereby protecting these pensioners in wales.
mr president, in my constituency lie the ports of felixstowe and harwich, the largest privately owned port complex in europe and a model of commercial success. the owners tell me that this directive has been prepared without thorough consultation and that, if passed, it will be seriously damaging to the whole uk port industry. they say that it would force many ports to restructure, yet would do nothing to improve efficiency in a cargo handling market characterised by competition between ports, not within ports. thus, if there are problems of restrictive practices in cargo handling and pilotage in some continental ports, they should be tackled by individual member states. as is so often the case, one size does not fit all. i urge the commission, even at this late stage, to rethink this damaging proposal. competition is one thing. destruction of a successful industry is quite another. i ask you to take this directive back and consult properly with those who are affected by it.
mr president, it is a real pity that the commission completely ignored parliament's position on the 1997 green paper which stated: "no need for community legislation on organisational structure and market access for port services". that was our position then and i hope it is going to be our position tomorrow, but so far the commissioner has failed to explain why she has ignored that. secondly, so far the commission has ignored the question of why there has been no regulatory impact assessment on this proposal. whether you are for it or against it, it is extraordinary that such a proposal as this is not subject to the assessment that president prodi assured the house would apply to all new commission proposals. why is mr prodi not honouring commitments given to this house? thirdly and finally, why is this proposal so over-prescriptive? why is it going to burden a successful industry with more red tape, with no justification whatsoever? why does it seek to regulate in minute detail every aspect of a port's operation? why, for example, does it call for cargo handling to be provided by at least two service providers for each type of cargo? how can that make any sense when you are trying to organise the arrangements at ports? bearing all that in mind and unwelcome as the proposal is, it is even more extraordinary that it does not address the issue of state aids or transparency of accounts. the whole package is unbalanced and unworkable. i hope the house rejects it tomorrow.
madam president, on a point of order. this was advertised as a "catch the eye of the president" session, open to all members of parliament. in fact it has been nothing more than a private meeting of parliament's bureau. group leaders have been invited to speak, mr poettering was invited to speak twice and the groups have been asked to put forward speakers. it has not been an open debate and i really do not know why the rest of us turn up if you are going to conduct business this way. this is not in the interests of parliament. i must protest at the way in which you have conducted this matter. (applause)
mr president, on a point of order. following mr titley's observation, i would simply say that this is a most important question. i am sure those who were not able to speak were very pleased to hear the commissioner's comments. i will submit my questions to him in writing. i should like to point out that four of our colleagues here today asked three questions. if the president, and indeed colleagues, would limit themselves to one question, by my mathematics nine further speakers might have been called.
commission. – it is the responsibility of member states to initiate action if they have evidence of harm due to the consumption of a particular foodstuff. the commission can take temporary safeguard measures if it becomes aware of a serious risk from a product to the health and safety of consumers. once the commission is informed of action by a member state, then the need for action on a community-wide basis can be assessed. however, the commission is not aware of action being initiated by any member state. in fact the two member states that have reported deaths associated with consumption of energy drinks have stated that there is no evidence of the association and they have instigated their own investigations into the effect of such products on health. the commission has sought the cooperation of member states in looking at this issue in depth and identifying the appropriate course of action.
i should like to thank mrs malliori for raising this issue and add to what she has said. may i ask the commissioner specifically about how these energy drinks are marketed in combination with alcoholic products. for example, a growing trend, certainly in scotland, has been the combination of the product red bull with vodka, which is exceedingly dangerous. this is of great concern to me, since scotland has one of the highest rates of under-age drinking, that is to say drinking by 15 year olds and under, in the european union. could the commissioner tell me whether the standing committee on foodstuffs discussed the combination of energy drinks with alcoholic products and, if so, what research did it propose and what information did it think was needed?
mr president, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the community. i am in the process of consulting with the professionals, which will be completed this year. then i will consult with the politicians, and at the end of this series of consultations, i will make concrete proposals. i refuse to start at the end, make proposals, and then only consult. no: i want to consult first, listen, and then make proposals. i can give you my personal opinion: i have made it very clear that i do not think that a total ban on certain types of advertising is effective unless it is demonstrated, particularly in the light of the experience of other countries, that it is essential to achieve a legitimate objective of general interest. i had asked the swedish presidency very clearly not to fight a battle in this sense, because at this stage i should have said no. i said no, i consult, i listen, i know that the swedish government, which for its own reasons has itself banned advertising on its territory, is going in that direction. i also know that the majority of member states are not moving in that direction.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether she shares with me a concern that, in sweden, because television advertising aimed at children is not allowed, there is a noticeable lack of programmes being produced specifically for children in sweden. can she assure me that, in the study which she talked about – and i am delighted that she said it was going to be an open-minded study – this aspect will be fully considered and that, as there will be an explosion of television channels and television choice in future, she will look thoroughly at the possible impact of advertising on the generation of funds to produce high-quality programmes for children?
commission - mr president, i've always had a double job. the first concerns the application of the decisions taken with the 'television without frontiers' directive. there is, for example, article 16 which restricts advertising to children, because minors must be protected. you can't do anything in children's programming, that's clear. but i would like parliament to help me a little on this point, for example. can we make any kind of kid's film? because what shocks me sometimes as much as some commercials, is the violence in movies that are specifically for children. we are analysing all this and then we will all see together what is the most effective method of moving forward on this matter. in the context of digital television, which will allow the broadcasting of hundreds of programmes, including programmes for children, i would like us in europe to have enough budget, enough investment to produce good programmes for children. this is the second job i have to do: to make sure that in the future we have enough films for children that are age-appropriate, that are positive and that contain a part of the child's soul and a part of the educational element.
this question interests me very much and is quite appropriate in the middle of november, in the run-up to christmas. many parents would be very supportive of mr papayannakis' question. i would like to ask the commissioner what comparisons have been made of the different advertising used in different countries at this time of year? i would like to hear her opinion on the fact that, certainly in my own country, this advertising begins just after august, well before the immediate run-up to christmas and can be very aggressive. what kind of measures can you suggest be put in place to protect minors from this aggressive advertising?
may i frame a question which i hope the commission will feel free to answer simply yes or no. wittgenstein told us that to choose a language is to choose a form of life. i think, therefore, that if we lose languages we lose forms of life. does the commissioner agree with me that it would be a tragedy for europe if it loses languages such as scots gaelic, and lowland scots through neglect and that the lesser-used languages deserve greater encouragement than they get now?
the commission. - mr president, we were just talking about small languages. that's why i'm using finnish now. the ce marking is provided for in the 1990 council decision on the various stages of conformity assessment procedures intended to be used for the application of the directives on technical harmonization and in the 1993 council directive. the latter provides for the inclusion of the ce marking in a number of sectoral technical harmonisation directives.
the commission will no doubt have realised, from the shared language of these three questions, that they originate outside this house, and indeed amnesty international has been pressing us on this point. i need not underline the significance and weight that attaches to representations by amnesty international. i am very grateful indeed to the commissioner for his assurance in response to the third part of the question about the steps that are being taken to try to bring this matter under reasonable control. it is a kind of irony, is it not, that the original idea of the ce marking was to give assurances about safety. well, if i am at the wrong end of a safe piece of torture equipment, it is not a good place to be. can you give us any indication of a timetable for the progress you hope to make on this?
commission. – the inter-service consultation in the commission is going on right now. different services are expressing their opinions, so it is at an advanced stage of internal preparation today.
further to the comments of my colleague, mr maccormick, i too was very concerned. that is why i tabled the question. the amnesty international report, stopping the torture trade (2001), found that electric-shock devices have been used to torture or ill-treat people in prisons, detention centres and police stations in no less than 76 countries around the world. the report also found that stun-gun weapon manufacturers are advertising these products with the 'awarded' ce standard. as mr maccormick has said, the ce mark was meant to be a sign of quality and safety, but in a torture weapon it is pretty perverse and sickening. i welcome the commissioner's proposal and would welcome further clarification of the timetable. to push things a little bit forward: you have explained how the ce mark is awarded, but how are the recipients of the awards monitored and have any ce marks been withdrawn, to your knowledge?
the third part of my question is slightly broader. i ask by what authority can the validity of a ce mark be challenged? the commissioner has said in his first answer that it was not the commission that would make a ruling and in his second supplementary he said that it would be the competent national authority. is there any system of mutual recognition of a ruling by one national authority, or would it be necessary to challenge the use of a ce mark on something like a stun gun separately in each of the 15 member states? is there not some overall body that can say this is valid? it seems to be a very long-winded process if it has to be challenged 15 separate times.
commission. – denmark notified the commission in march 2001 of a draft regulation intended to prohibit the import, sale and use of three greenhouse gases – hfc, pfc and sf6 – and products containing them as from 2006, except in the case of certain products and applications for which a different timetable was laid down. this notification, pursuant to directive 98/34/ec, allows the commission and other member states to carry out a prior examination of a measure which might create obstacles to the free movement of goods in the internal market. several member states have reacted to the danish proposal. the commission for its part has sent the danish authorities a letter whose effect was to postpone the possibility of adopting the proposal until 6 september 2001. denmark must reply to the commission and inform it of the action it intends to take on the proposal. the position expressed by the commission can be summarised as follows. firstly, the commission recognises the legitimacy of the objective of the danish proposal. the text is aimed at combating greenhouse warming and at contributing towards a 21% reduction of six industrial gases to which denmark committed itself at the environment council in june 1998. the european union, for its part, undertook under the kyoto protocol to reduce by 8% the emissions of the six industrial gases in question produced by all its member states. in the light of information already provided by denmark, however, the commission considers that the proposal is disproportionate to the objective pursued and does not appear, therefore, to comply with the rules of the internal market. the commission notes that there are technical measures for monitoring these emissions and that those measures create fewer distortions of intra-community trade than a total prohibition. moreover, the commission is not convinced that safe alternative measures which are technically compatible with the systems currently used exist in all cases or will be in existence within deadlines laid down by the danish proposal. if denmark does not respond to the commission's request the latter, as the guardian of the treaties, may, whilst the proposal has been adopted, initiate infringement proceedings under article 226 of the ec treaty.
first of all, i thank the commissioner for a comprehensive and clear reply. clearly the commission has taken action with regard to this issue. it is of concern not only to myself but to a great deal of other people in the union, particularly those in the airconditioning industry, who could see a potential change in their market happening far too rapidly for them to respond with technical measures on with any kind of appropriate economic steps. i hope the commission will continue to press the danish authorities to be quite clear about their intentions. i hope that the commission will seek further contact with the danish authorities over and above the letters they have already sent, to ensure that a reply is received quickly. the amount of uncertainty at the moment with regard to the intentions of the danish government is creating ripples across the single market and raising doubts that are not conducive to the progressive restructuring of the air-conditioning market – and the other markets in which these gases are used – so that they can be phased out over an appropriate and sensible period of time. i hope the commission can assure us that action will be taken.
rapporteur. – mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating the commission on the green paper. it is an excellent analysis of our energy supply situation in europe. i thank all my colleagues for the way in which they have contributed to my report to bring it to this stage this evening. there are three main points in the green paper. firstly, the european union will become increasingly dependent on external energy sources, reaching 70% by 2003. secondly, the eu has very limited scope to influence energy supply conditions so that it is on the demand side that the eu can intervene, mostly through promoting energy saving in buildings and in the transport sector. thirdly, in present circumstances the eu is not in a position to respond to the challenge of climate change and to meet its commitments, notably under the kyoto protocol. one thing above all else is staring us in the face: the massive dependence on oil and on imported oil in particular. for commonsense reasons of security of supply and protection of the environment, urgent steps should be taken to address this disproportionate dependence. we cannot alter the fact of where the oil comes from, but we can do a number of things on the demand side, particularly in the transport sector. being dependent on imports is not necessarily a bad thing or economically inefficient, provided that the sources are diverse, no one supplier is dominant and we can produce sufficient goods and services to pay for them. the commission is correct to focus on demand management measures as a first priority and it is to be hoped that the member states will pursue this approach vigorously. however i do not accept the view that little or nothing can be done on the supply side. in four areas the eu and member states can be masters of their own destiny and make a real difference, both to security of supply and to protection of the environment. renewable energy sources are by definition indigenous supplies and we are correct to seek to increase their share of final consumption and electricity generation. however let us be realistic,. even if the ambitious targets for res are met, they cannot be expected to replace any of the other energy sources completely or become the sole supplier of all our energy needs. nuclear energy is not popular in some quarters, but it supplies more electricity in europe than any other energy source. it provides large volume, base load power and produces hardly any greenhouse gas emissions. it is a safe and secure european technology, operated under stringent standards of regulation. to deliberately deny ourselves this major source of electricity seems perverse in the absence of an alternative source of supply that can provide an equivalent volume. coal is a source of energy in decline in europe, because of cost and environmental concerns. yet it is an important indigenous resource which could be given a new lease of life with new technology to make it more efficient and less pollutant. furthermore, there is huge scope for gaining business in the rest of the world for european suppliers of equipment and systems, if the industry can seize the opportunity. the fourth area is research work for future technologies and energy systems. that is something europe must do in order to safeguard future security of supply, employment and technology. it seems obvious but needs repeating. for all the above reasons, i also disagree with the view that the eu cannot meet its kyoto commitments. what is needed is realism on the nuclear issue, determined effort on clean coal technology, much encouragement of res and coordinated demand management measures, as well as a sustained effort to inform public opinion about the necessity to stop wasting energy.
mr president, here we are, all worried about our dependence on imported fuels and energy, worried about the future of our economy and our jobs, and yet we have mr fitzsimons and mr kronberger bemoaning and belittling one of the main potential sources for meeting that problem, the nuclear energy solution. not only does it meet our energy and economic requirements, but it also meets our environmental requirements under kyoto. i would say – and mr chichester's excellent report bears this out – that unless we diversify our sources of supply of energy, especially by promoting indigenous supplies of energy, we will be in trouble with our economy and our jobs in the future. nuclear energy must play a significant part in both those ambitions: diversification and indigenous supplies. there are other areas as well. mr chichester mentioned coal. we must promote clean technologies in coal. in my part of the world, in scotland, we would like to see more emphasis on promoting the oil and gas industries and their potential for better recovery systems, for exploration in marginal areas, for developing marginal oil and gas fields, for replenishing the reserves, the reservoirs in the south part of the north sea, with gas in the meantime to protect us for the long term, and particularly transmission systems. that applies not only to oil and gas but also to electricity. in all these areas there is great potential for research. that ties us into what we will discuss tomorrow in the caudron report on the sixth framework programme. in all these areas, diversification, indigenous supplies and research will help us to meet our objectives.
mr president, i welcome the commission proposal on chemical policy. it is long overdue. for too long we have seen a gradual increase in allergenic reactions and even worse human health effects and at the same time a series of undesirable effects on the general environment. if we adopt this report, we will be taking a first step towards asking a very important question: whether the 30 000 chemicals in general use today and the 100 000 components that they are used to make are in any way responsible for the things we see happening to human health and the world around us. there is no doubt that we will have to make a very wide-ranging examination of the chemicals in use today and those that we might want to introduce into our environment in the future. we will have to start considering issues and areas that we have not previously considered. socio-economic issues will be particularly important. the full effects of changing our chemicals policy and strategy will be wide-ranging across the whole of europe. however, one would hope that, by taking a serious step forward tonight and starting to formulate a new structure for chemicals policy, we will arrive at a policy which is truly sustainable in the long term; which brings genuine and positive benefits to society as a whole; ends any negative impacts upon human health in the environment and stands as a shining example to other parts of the world as to how they should progress in future. so tonight we are taking a step not just towards a cleaner and better european environment and a stronger and more prosperous chemical industry in europe but also towards a healthier and better future for the whole world.
mr president, i hope the commissioner has caught up on her sleep after another succesful climate change conference. it all seemed very easy when the commissioner first put the plan to us. she said that we use tens of thousands of chemicals in europe. they are essential to our way of life but there is very little public information about them and the real fear is that some of them may be causing long-term damage to the environment and human health. so we must get the information, we must carry out the tests and, while keeping the good and maintaining a strong european chemicals industry, we must identify the bad and weed them out. but that was a few months ago. in the meantime all of us have learnt a great deal from the lobbyists about the difficulties of putting the policy into practice, as is well illustrated by the difficulty of identifying even the number of chemicals we are talking about. sometimes we hear of 30 000, sometimes of 100 000 – quite a big difference. at least the chemical industry says it is in favour and supports the commission's objectives, but it warns that the proposals are impractical, will increase bureaucracy and will be immensely costly. the testing regime, it says, will cause paralysis of the whole system, especially if we extend the requirements. millions of animals will be killed painfully and perhaps unnecessarily in order to meet the testing requirements. all these concerns need to be taken into account. when the draft directive comes before us, i will be listening very carefully to industry's complaints. i recognise that in environmental matters we often hear industry crying wolf, but even so we must ensure that new requirements placed upon the companies are realistic and practical and that they enhance rather than damage a very important business. this is only a white paper. in making recommendations, i support mrs schörling in asking the commission to strengthen its environmental commitments, rather than relax them. but in reality we will probably end up following the council of ministers in passing the buck back to the commission, asking you to find a way around the obstacle course and giving an absolute guarantee that we will criticise you, whatever proposals you come up with.
mr president, we need to be clear that chemicals can be good for you. you only have to look around this chamber at the carpets, chairs, desks, paint, steel and glass to see how much we depend on them. however they can also be bad for you. some insecticides, flame retardants and even hair sprays can be a danger and we need to be wary of them. chemicals can certainly present a risk if they are mishandled and they can need regulation. sometimes they need to be phased out or banned. however, i fear this report goes too far too fast and so, in some respects, does the white paper. i know it is only the white paper stage, but we need to look carefully at some of the potential costs, said to be some eur 8bn to european industry. a massive cost to animals has been referred to. the buav estimates 2 123 animals per high production volume chemical test. we are told that 12.8 million would be at risk if one were testing on 30 000 substances and the report goes up to 100 000. of course not all those would need animal tests, but a substantial number would. one other example of how this report overreacts: paragraph 38 sweeps up all cmr category 3 substances and designates them of very high concern. just take one example from one industry, the raw materials for flexible foam. the finished product is in no way a hazard and provides comfort and safety for consumers in products from furniture to car dashboards. that is an industry employing 360 000 people, 96% of them in small- and medium-sized firms. they could be at risk. the aims of the white paper are right: we want to improve knowledge about chemicals and we want a safer world. we should prioritise areas for action. that means rigorous management of risk, without damaging unnecessarily the many small- and medium-sized firms that make up the chemical industry which has its risks but also brings jobs, benefits and safety for our citizens.
mr president, mrs flemming's report builds on the existing water framework directive. my group is happy to support it. if water resources are to be used sustainably, the price of water to users must reflect both the costs of delivery and the costs of subsequent treatment. but when we vote tomorrow, a great deal of attention will be focused on just one aspect of the report, the spanish hydrological scheme to build 120 dams and transfer vast quantities of water from one river basin to another. i am not sure that a report about general principles should single out any one member state for criticism but, having listened over the past few weeks to both sides of the debate, my personal view is that this scheme seems to be the antithesis of the approach laid down in mrs flemming's report. the commissioner has made very clear in the past her personal opposition to the use of eu structural funds to support projects which are damaging to the environment. so i hope she will watching closely when the spanish government comes to the commission seeking billions of pounds in structural fund support for a project which seems to me to directly contravene the principles if not the letter of the water framework directive, one of the commission's greatest achievements. i expect the commission to make it absolutely clear that environmental impact studies must be independent and must consider the entire scheme, not just individual proposals. this spanish scheme is set to become a test case of whether the commission's commitments toward environmental sustainability are matched by a determination to stand up to pressure from vested interests and the governments of member states. i hope that the commissioner will do her best to make sure that her colleagues pass that test.
mr president, these oversight reports by parliament are very important because we need not only to examine new legislation but to look back to see what has happened to the legislation we have adopted. mrs corbey is quite right to name names. the member states were supposed to bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with the packaging directive before 30 june 1996. that did not happen. two things should flow from the findings mrs corbey has put before us. firstly, we must ask whether the original directive, as mr florenz has said, was defective or whether ministers were not honest with themselves about what they could achieve when they adopted it. the answer is probably a combination of the two. secondly, we should ask why the commission did not act more quickly than it has to investigate why the directive was struggling to gain universal compliance. i regret that mrs corbey did not focus on these questions. individual countries have had very different experiences as each has put a recovery system in place. my own evidence from the united kingdom is that our system has been too bureaucratic. one businessman in cornwall complained to me that he had to employ a graduate specifically to keep a track of his firm's obligations under the directive. what lessons are there from our experience which could underpin the revision of the directive, or at least a revision of the way that member states are applying it? the commission is wrong if it proposes higher targets for recycling. this is the easy way out, but the wrong way. such targets cannot take account of the considerable variations and circumstances between member states, so we will end up with an even bigger range of results than we have now, creating trade barriers and distorting competition. if we are to get eu environmental law that really makes a difference, we must, within much broader targets, allow member states to adopt solutions best suited to their respective local environments and economies.
mr president, the ppe-de group broadly welcomes this long-overdue overhaul of the original 1977 directive as part of the single market in financial services, which utilises the financial passport or single licence concept. this involves minimal harmonisation, the setting of professional standards and consumer safeguards as well as mutual recognition between member states, to enable brokers to enjoy freedom of establishment throughout the union with rules to ensure prudential care for the good conduct of their business. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr berenguer fuster, on his largely cooperative cross-party approach in committee, appropriate to a technical report which provides quality assurance to the consumer. it is worth noting that approximately 95% of european consumers use the services of insurance brokers and will be affected by this directive, along with 100 000 insurance practitioners in the union. the vast majority of areas of political difference were resolved in a series of compromise amendments, as well as those requirements due to the peculiar structure of the german industry. i was delighted at the adoption of a large number of my own amendments, ranging from exemptions for the travel industry, to recognition of the role of the computer and the internet and the future role of e-commerce for insurance, as well as safeguards for a three-yearly review of eligibility for registration, and protection for businesses located offshore outside the eu. i hope this report will not increase the burden to intermediaries, in terms of cost or difficulty, or of conducting normal business practices, but will open up a competitive and transparent market throughout the 15 union member states, which ultimately, by providing volume and economy of scale, will provide real savings which will be handed down to the citizens of the union.
commission. – mr president, i should like to begin by thanking parliament for the efforts to complete its first reading of the proposal for a directive on insurance mediation. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr berenguer, and also mr ferri, for the quality of their work which has resulted in the recommendation submitted to this plenary. the proposal for a directive on insurance mediation, scheduled in the action plan for financial services, is a key text to achieve a true internal market in insurance, in particular as regards retail markets. insurance intermediaries play a fundamental role in the sale of insurance in the community and their importance would increase with the emergence of more complex and sophisticated insurance products. although the internal market in insurance has been completed as regards insurance undertakings, especially concerning the prudential rules, insurance intermediaries continue to be confronted with several obstacles which prevent them from taking full advantage of the freedoms of the treaty. the proper functioning of the internal market is therefore hindered. i am particularly pleased that parliament agrees with the essential objectives of the commission's proposals. it seeks to ensure that insurance intermediaries possess a high level of professional competence and that an intermediary, duly registered in his home member state, may conduct his activities throughout the internal market. the proposal also aims to guarantee the protection of customers by setting appropriate information requirements. i now turn to the amendments submitted to the plenary session. the commission can accept the following amendments: nos 1, 4, 5, 8, 9, 17, 28, 30, 37 and the second part of no 58. it can also accept either partially or in their spirit the following amendments: 3, 7, 11, 21, 23, 24, 26, 27, 29, 32, 44 and 51. amendment nos 15 and 16 may also be accepted in part. the commission is not, however, in a position to accept the other amendments tabled for the following reasons. amendment nos 2, 10, 13, 14, 46, 47, 49, 52 and 57 aim to exclude from the scope of the proposal some activities such as those of travel agencies, veterinarians and persons acting on an occasional basis, and therefore these amendments cannot be accepted. these exclusions would affect the sale of insurance products involving important risks and are therefore rejected. the same reasons explain the non-acceptance of amendment nos 12 and 50. the commission considers that the term "insurance intermediary" is defined in an appropriate manner. the scope of the directive is well balanced. amendment nos 15 and 16 are therefore not necessary since the definition covers all intermediation activities, including those carried out by electronic means. the same applies to amendment nos 19 and 25 which relate to sub-agents and also to amendment nos 20 and 58. as regards the issue of "bancassurance", all forms of "bancassurance" activities should fall within the scope of the proposal. it is an increasingly important way of distributing insurance. amendment nos 18 and 22 propose a definition of "bancassurance" activities which only takes account of one of the possible forms that "bancassurance" may take. they are therefore rejected. there are amendments relating to registration and professional requirements of insurance intermediaries. amendment nos 31 and 56 would imply less strict rules to cover professional negligence of insurance intermediaries. they would jeopardise the objective of ensuring an appropriate level of professional liability cover for insurance intermediaries in the internal market. amendment no 33, 34 and 54 would affect the overall coherence of the proposal which is based on the principle of home country control. amendment no 35 and 36 concern complaint schemes and out-of-court redress mechanisms of the proposal. amendment no 35 is already implicit in the text of the proposal and is not necessary. amendment no 36 does not seem appropriate in the context of a directive since it contains a specific reference to a commission recommendation which is not legally binding on the member states. thirdly there are amendments referring to information requirements. a key element of the commission proposal is to ensure a high level of protection of consumers through the provision of appropriate information and advice. amendment nos 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 55, 60 and 61 would compromise considerably this objective. finally, amendment nos 6, 45 and 48 which provide that non-registered persons excluded from the scope of the directive should comply with information requirements, would be extremely difficult for the member states to implement in practice. i am sorry to have talked so long about these amendments, but parliament has a right to know what the commission thinks.
- the minutes of yesterday's session have been distributed. are there any observations ?
- we'll make sure your vote is recorded. as regards the question of the committee on development and cooperation, as you very rightly pointed out, the documents are not ready. that is why this item was referred back to the sitting on 28 november. this will give the committee a little more time to deliberate and make sure that the text is correct. that is the reason for the postponement and you are quite right to raise the question.
mr president, as someone who has consistently called in this house for an early report from the presidency on the progress of our own staff reforms, can i be the first to welcome the fact that we received a letter from the president yesterday on this subject. it was an undated letter but i assume it was issued yesterday. however, i should like to register again my concern that we still need more information. mrs fontaine says in her letter: "i believe the time has come to provide all members with the fullest possible details". i am afraid this is not the "fullest possible details", since half of it is a letter to mr prodi. i should like you to ask the bureau and the presidency to give us in this house, as soon as possible, a comparison of the proposed personnel reforms in this parliamentary institution with the reforms proposed in the commission. and bearing in mind that on 28 october the commission adopted their new personnel strategy, can we please have an early debate in this house with mr kinnock about his reforms and with the presidency about their reforms, so that members can be properly informed. we must have a chance to debate this and to understand why the presidency of this house is proposing in one instance radically different changes to those proposed for the commission. i, along with many other colleagues, am concerned about that different approach. (applause)
- mr harbour, your remark is very sensible and the bureau understands it perfectly. parliament remains the ultimate sovereign in this matter. i shall be sure to convey your message as firmly as possible to the presidency so that this matter can be settled. i am sure that everyone is aware that a debate on this subject is still ongoing in the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not have the letter in front of me at the moment, but the president points out in that letter that there is almost unanimous agreement in the bureau and in the conference of presidents on the position of parliament, which, as i said, remains sovereign in this matter. the question will remain open for debate. there is no doubt about that. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
- the following two reports are requested for joint debate: - a5-0376/2001 by mr caudron, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the multiannual framework programme 2002-2006 of the european community for research, technological development and demonstration activities to help achieve the european research area (com (2001) 94 - c5-0087/2001 - 2001/0053 (cod)); - a5-0355/2001 by mr caudron, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the multiannual framework programme 2002-2006 of the european atomic energy community (euratom) for research and teaching activities to help achieve the european research area (com (2001) 94 - c5-0171/2001 - 2001/0054 (cns))
mr president, i thank the rapporteur, mr caudron, and commissioner busquin, who have both helped us to work efficiently, as have the shadow rapporteurs. the sixth framework programme is the first implementation of the european research area, which itself is a consequence of the lisbon summit and its wish for us to have a successful knowledge-based economy, because of the strong correlation between research and development and economic success – inadequate in most eu countries outside scandinavia, i should say. we welcome the emphasis on looking for european added value, not scattering the limited funds over the whole range of research carried out. so i am glad that we are now targeting cutting-edge research, particularly in areas like nano-technology, which will be very significant in the future. there are, however, some gaps in the proposals which we wish to see filled. they include, of course, health, other than strictly post-genomic research, non-nuclear energy and land and water transport. i come to international activities, because the research framework programme must look outside the eu as well. it is essential that there is both earmarked money for international cooperative research – we suggest eur 400 million – and mainstreaming across all the research, particularly on hiv/aids malaria and tuberculosis. we must involve the countries that suffer from those scourges in the research. the sums allocated in the commissioner's proposal for science and society were inadequate. we propose to double the spending on science and society. we do not think that having one specific programme with one management will lead to transparency and adequate monitoring. i therefore hope that our suggestion will ensure that we are able to have both openness and good management of each individual part of the programmes. although we welcome networks of excellence and integrated projects, we must maintain more familiar mechanisms at the early stages. we must at all costs avoid the creation of scientific cartels. i am pleased with the new mission of the jrc. i served on mr davignon's panel and it is certainly consistent with the panel's views. as far as the euratom section of the sixth framework programme is concerned, i have very grave doubts as to whether the iter project will be implemented and my personal view – this is not the view of the rapporteur – is that extra funding is not therefore needed. it will be available in any case. the framework programmes are one of the big success stories of the european union. let us build on their past success.
mr president, in line with lisbon and stockholm summit declarations and with the report of this parliament on the future of the biotech industry, the life sciences are a top priority of the sixth framework programme. this priority is upheld in mr caudron's excellent report. parliament must continue to be consistent and add its support to the progress which our scientists and researchers can provide. yet as representatives of the people of europe, we in this parliament must also define the limits which will provide an appropriate ethical context for this progress. genetic research promises much in preventing and curing many of man's most dreaded hereditary diseases. but genetic engineering for this purpose must not extend into eugenics. embryo research must not lead to the deliberate creation of embryos for research, though we may accept that early stage supernumerary embryos genuinely resulting from in-vitro fertilisation, from spontaneous miscarriages or from therapeutic abortions for the mother's health, and which are destined for destruction in any case, can legitimately and ethically be available for research in member states where there is strict regulation and supervision. the amendment submitted by mr trakatellis, mr nisticò and myself – no 333 – seeks to restrict and define more exactly than the existing text where these limits lie. i commend it to the parliament.
mr president, as someone who suffers from a neurological complaint, to wit parkinson's disease, i am naturally biased in this matter, but i am a little shocked by the frequent use of terms like ‘unacceptable’ and ‘dignity’ applied to people who wish to find a solution through medical research to the terrible problems facing those who suffer from neurological disease, such as alzheimer's, motor neurone and parkinson's. there is no dignity in dying of motor neurone disease and there is precious little dignity in suffering from parkinson's either. so i want to commend to the house the view of the sufferer as well as the view – if there is to be one – of the person who is concerned above all about preserving the embryo. if i thought that an embryo had the same human rights as a child or an adult human being, i would not, of course, not be in favour of anything that meant the destruction of human life. but the laws of our member states by and large accept that there is a difference between an embryo, a fertilised egg and an adult or child who is already a human being. the human rights of the one are not quite the same as the human rights of the other. that is what the law says in most of our member states. i do not believe that the founder of the christian religion, who set great store by healing the sick, would inhibit those who simply want to cure sick people. i cannot believe that this is the intention of the christian ethic. (applause)
mr president, in the time available, as mr salafranca will understand, i would like to concentrate on paragraph 7 of the resolution on the urgent and overriding need to keep support for the peace process in colombia as a priority within this strategy. in particular i want to state two points. first, that the pledge made by president pastrana personally to this parliament on the dismantling of paramilitary groups has not been, and is not being, honoured. so say the un special representative on human rights, the mexican observer commission and the relations of ten fishermen killed in santa marta, and of the 18 people forced face down on to the ground and shot dead by paramilitaries in buga within the last month alone. this is a continued gross abuse of human rights and, as my own uk ambassador has said, in these troubled times the guerrillas and the paramilitaries are both terrorist groups and should be combated through all means as part of the current anti-terrorist programme. we feel that particularly due to the killing of the british backpacker jeremy parks on 28 october. the belgian presidency rightly included action against paramilitaries as one of its four priorities in colombia, in august of this year. could the commissioner please tell us in his reply what progress is being made as a result of the pressure that is being applied. secondly, we support commissioner patten's proposal for a peace laboratory at magdalena medio. it is a major contribution towards the peace process, in contrast to the american military aid in plan colombia, which we have roundly condemned. but this magdalena medio region has been subject to an incursion by those same guerrillas. they are there, threatening campesinos that they must plant coca or they will die. they are there running their own businesses, having their own taxes and they want to co-opt ngos to ensure that our european money goes to them to undermine the peace process rather than to support it. i call on the commissioner now to show how he will introduce control and verification mechanisms so that our european money will achieve progress in the peace process, and not be abused by the paramilitaries to undermine our very aims.
- the agenda calls for a vote. procedure without debate - recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 70/220/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to measures to be taken against air pollution by emissions from motor vehicles (11253/1/2001 - c5-0474/2001 - 2000/0211 (cod)) (the president declared the common position approved)
- we want to please everybody. before the vote on the motion for a resolution
- i think it's expired, but if the liberal party group wants to support me, i'm delighted. (laughter and applause)
- amendment 47 is dead.
mr president, i should like to make a point about the ppe-de recommended voting list. there was a mistake in amendment no 8 as a result of a mistake in the original draft, which has now been corrected. so amendment no 8 should be supported by the ppe-de group as a recommendation. similarly, amendments nos 57, 13, 46 and 47 have a mistake in the english language translation which renders it nonsensical. the word ‘by’ should be replaced by ‘to’ in the relevant paragraph (c). the rapporteur, mr berenguer fuster, supports me on both counts.
- we will ensure that the language versions are corrected and that they are in agreement with each other.
- are there any objections to the consideration of this oral amendment ? (parliament agreed to the oral amendment)
- your suggestion will be considered and the members will be informed in due course of the decision taken.
- we'll make sure that all the terms used are non-sexist.
- i'm sorry about that. i can't accept it because we're voting on the additions.
- thank you for that clarification. do you agree, mr caudron?
- thank you, sir. the rest will come as soon as we get to the other parts of amendments nos 332 and 333. this vote concerns that part only.
mr president, i think the rapporteur wants to comment. (laughter)
- mr. caudron, mrs. mcnally can read your mind.
- mr caudron, you may be confusing two parts. we are currently voting on part three, stem cells. but you just raised the issue of embryos. at the moment we are voting only on the stem cell aspect, namely section 3 of this amendment.
- to be absolutely clear, this is the part: "to safeguard the health of the mother".
- at least now it's clear.
- it's very clear. is there any objection to this oral amendment? (parliament adopted the oral amendment)
- you mean "fish or animal" or "new or improved"?
- very well, "new or improved". is there any objection to this oral amendment? (parliament adopted the oral amendment) amendment no 320 by mr
- does the green group accept the oral amendment as an addition? (the green group agreed to the oral amendment)
in writing. -en) the majority of uk ports are well managed and prosperous, because private operators have bought them from cash-strapped local authorities and run them like successful businesses. the european commission's proposal for a directive to intensify competition between eu port services threatens to reverse this trend. this would make british ports vulnerable to takeovers such as those carried out by électricité de france on various electricity companies. this would impose unnecessary bureaucracy on an already highly competitive and successful uk port market. this would threaten the independence, commercial and unsubsidised nature of british ports. i would like to see private operators excluded from the scope of this directive.
in writing. - i warmly welcome the report by mr gérard caudron, who recommends that the allocation of the 16 billion euro budget for research in the commission's proposal be revised. it was high time to extend the health research work of the framework programme to more common diseases: most people have already been in contact more or less closely with diseases such as cancer, degenerative or cardiovascular diseases. by allocating resources to research into these diseases, the eu would be seen as an institution fighting for real causes that have a real impact on the lives of its citizens. the ethical, legal and social aspects of research are becoming increasingly important, if not as important as the research itself. for this reason, by calling for funding for these areas, the commission shows that it is aware of the importance of today's issues. the call for financial resources for the information society shows a real commitment to validate the ambitions set by the union at the lisbon summit, also known as sommet.com, to make the eu one of the most competitive and dynamic economies in the world. this is the only option: to become a credible player in the new economy and the information society in the world, the eu must invest considerable sums in this area as quickly as possible. in conclusion, i would say that the allocation of financial resources to research must always take account of the environmental aspect. the report proposes to finance research into renewable energy sources in a balanced and environmentally friendly way.
- i declare the explanations of vote closed. (the sitting was suspended at 1.51 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, my group, the liberal group, wants to make three points, largely in the form of questions. first of all – and this point will appear in the compromise resolution which is not yet in print but it is certainly in our own resolution – my colleague, baroness nicholson of winterbourne, points out that the united nations is extremely slow, or has been in the past, to respond when there are reports of breaches of use of these weapons. for example, when saddam hussein, in the early 90s, used these weapons in the marshes of iraq, it took the united nations three and a half weeks to get inspectors there, giving saddam hussein plenty of time to cover up the evidence of his crimes. would the council kindly point out to the united nations that we need a much quicker response than three and a half weeks if such incidents happen in future, as we fear may happen. secondly – and this appears in the liberal group's resolution and also in the compromise resolution – the anthrax problem in the united states has drawn all our attention to the need to react quickly and to analyse what is happening. there is no european union-wide agency looking at this although, in the usa, there is the centre for disease control in atlanta. would the commission be willing to undertake to propose the creation of a european union agency, under its control, which would coordinate the work of the relevant national agencies in our member states in the field of communicable diseases? that would speed up our reaction and help us on a union basis. my third question is addressed to the council. i hope it is a hypothetical question. if the investigations in the usa show that the anthrax outbreak came from iraq and therefore american public opinion becomes overwhelmingly in favour of an attack on iraq and – i imagine that george bush would find it very hard to resist such overwhelming public opinion – what would be the council's position? would we encourage the eu to attack iraq as well, or would we try to hold george bush back? has the council considered this?
trying to put the principles of environmental sustainability into practice is no easy task. the council is actually inventing the wheel. the impression that many of us have is that the discussions are taking place behind closed doors. i wonder whether the presidency is trying to open the discussion up, increase the transparency of the process and perhaps involve other organisations such as ngos in the development of strategies. i should like to ask the president-in-office of the council in particular what is being done to press for the working groups to identify specific medium-term objectives, clear targets and programmes of action, so that we have something to get our teeth into and have a demonstrable means of measuring progress and achievement?
council. - i confirm what i have just said: there is no reference to nationalism as being in itself an undemocratic movement. what is being pointed out here are abuses, deviations, whether racist, xenophobic or exclusive, but nationalism is not in itself being pointed out as a generating element of these deviations. but nationalism can sometimes be used for far more extreme purposes, which are entirely reprehensible. this is true in every area of political action, and democratic political action is also beneficial to democracy as a whole and to freedom of expression. but whenever there are deviations, they are dangerous and they must be fought.
i am grateful for the president-in-office of the council's last remarks. i belong to a national movement in my own country, scotland, which over the last 100 years has produced great constitutional change without a single drop of human blood being shed or a single act of violence occurring. there are other places, as she knows, where similar constitutional changes have taken place and are continuing. the council and the president-in-office of the council are perhaps wilfully missing the point in mr nogueira román's question. it is a great mistake to say that there are some ends that tend to attract terrorism and therefore to attack those ends in themselves. the truth is that a terrorist is someone who thinks that an end justifies any means. it is absurd to believe that if the end is noble any means can be justified. those who believe that, make whatever end they seek ignoble. i wish the council would be less selective in its attitude to such questions.
the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to that question. i would like to ask the council to take a decision on the matter, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to that question. i can only repeat here, in the context of your question, the council's conviction that it is indeed also a matter of respecting in europe, and everywhere in the world, a democratic islam, an islam which actually belongs to the sphere of private life, or which expresses itself in a legitimate way, but also of combating any form of religious expression which pursues any other scandalously repressive aims.
just to clarify the comments by my honourable colleague, mr maccormick, it was, in fact, the 1997 election of a labour government which delivered the historic scottish parliament that was democratically elected in 1999. if it had not been for that labour government we would not have a scottish parliament.
council. - the council does not consider that the establishment of an age limit of 45 years for the recruitment of officials in the basic grade constitutes discrimination in itself, because the difference in treatment established by this limit is, on the one hand, in accordance with the ec treaty and the staff regulations and, on the other hand, is based on objective reasons, in particular relating to the concept of career which is at the heart of the community function. this was brought to the ombudsman's attention on two occasions. it should be noted that this age limit is systematically raised, up to a maximum of six years, to take account of family needs, such as the education of children, military service or physical disabilities. the age limit is also raised in certain other cases, to meet specific recruitment needs imposed by service requirements or new needs of the institution. this was the case, for example, for the recruitment of translators from nordic languages. this has also been the case recently for posts published in the politico-military field. the general secretariat of the council cannot deprive itself of the experience of older candidates when it is indispensable, but it must also ensure that its staff is kept young for the functions which fall within the permanent tasks of the institution, for example, translation or secretariat. finally, you drew attention to the fact that the ongoing process of administrative reform and strengthening interinstitutional cooperation includes the creation of an interinstitutional selection office. the question of the age limit was not settled during the preparatory work for the creation of the office. it can also be raised in the context of proposals for reform of the staff regulations, on which the council, acting in its legislative capacity, will be called upon to decide. pending the results of this work, which should make it possible to define common rules for all the institutions, it does not seem appropriate to modify the practice currently applied in the general secretariat of the council for the recruitment of officials at the basic grade of the career. this appears to be both in accordance with the rules of law and in the interests of the institution.
i thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply. i was alerted to this issue of age discrimination in the council at our previous part-session when i was asked what i thought. my immediate reaction was that, while on the one hand we are trying to encourage fairer treatment of older workers, yet, on the other hand, in one of our own eu institutions – and from what the minister said in more than one – we are discriminating against those aged 45 and over. it is a sad state of affairs when those aged 45 are not considered for employment. what talent, knowledge and experience is lost because of this! i should like to ask the president-in-office of the council what measures are being taken to treat all job applications equally? it was interesting to hear about the inter-institutional recruitment office. what is the time-scale for its creation and what common rules will all institutions have? i just wish to clarify something you said. the base age has been raised by six years. does that mean it has been raised to 51 or has 39 been raised to 45?
mr president, i would like to thank the commission for this proposal. the rapporteur gives me no option but to disagree with him. only yesterday in this house we passed a resolution giving the european parliament's opinion on the third round of negotiations for the who framework convention on tobacco control. this house should never forget that tobacco is the biggest cause of preventable illness and disease across the european union. it is like no other product. each year half a million eu citizens die needlessly due to tobacco. in scotland, which i represent, 13,000 people died last year due to smoking. the commission proposal will help people to stop smoking. this proposal will introduce a cash minimum amount of cigarette duty. currently the rule is expressed as a percentage of tax, inclusive of the retail selling price, and therefore has little effect on member states and applicant countries where retail prices are already low. the more expensive a packet of cigarettes, the bigger the incentive to stop smoking. some say that the most effective way to help smokers cure their addiction is to make cost the issue. therefore any measures to reduce smoking are more than welcome and are more important to my mind than any arguments which support the tobacco industry. as regards smuggling, unlike the rapporteur i believe this proposal will prevent smuggling within the eu. minimum eu rates of duty are sensible and effective in tackling the scourge of smuggling. the commission's proposal is a good proposal and therefore should be wholeheartedly supported.
madam president, i just wanted to bring to your attention the arrest in greece a week ago of twelve british subjects and two dutch subjects. among the british subjects were two of my constituents, paul and lesley coppin from mildenhall in suffolk. they have been arrested by the greek authorities on charges of espionage. these people are plane spotters, aviation enthusiasts, on holiday in greece. it does seem to me rather extraordinary that they are still being held in custody in a fellow member state, and i wonder if there is something that you can do to bring this matter to the attention of the greek authorities in order they be released as soon as possible.
counsel. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the crash of the american airlines plane on monday, november 12th in new york, has obviously reminded us all of the harsh and terrible reality of the airline industry. this new accident risks amplifying the economic and social crisis facing the sector since 9/11. however, it must not make us forget the roots of this crisis, which is the result of a combination of cyclical problems directly linked to the attacks of 11 september, but also of earlier structural difficulties revealed and accentuated by the events of 11 september. as president of the transport council and federal minister of belgium, i am particularly concerned about this situation. it seems to me more essential than ever to implement economic and social structural reforms in order to enable the sector to overcome the current crisis, to support it with social measures and to lay the foundations for a sustainable development of the sector in the long term. it is necessary to understand the real roots of the problem and identify the obstacles that need to be removed, which is what i would like to start working on here with you and with mrs diamantopoulou. the major cause of the inherent fragility of the european air transport sector is its excessive fragmentation, accentuated by a lack of consolidation at community level as well as a lack of strategic alliances. the community's construction has so far been based on the desire to create a single market in which optimum conditions of competition are ensured. the resulting extreme competition in a sector with relatively low marginal costs leads to both overcapacity problems and prices that are too low in relation to the average costs borne by airlines. this particularly tough competition has therefore contributed to the weakening of companies which have become vulnerable to any economic shock, given their low margins. the us aviation industry has long been much more concentrated than in europe, which, among other factors, has helped the industry to cope with the crisis that has hit the united states in particular. the difficulties of the aviation sector are not due to the attacks but to structural considerations, but the events of 11 september added new constraints to the fabric of the aviation industry, which precipitated the current crisis and are reinforced by the current economic recession. i will mention in particular, in chronological order, the fact that airspace in the united states was closed for four days, that passenger confidence has declined and that air traffic has fallen considerably - down 20% for leisure flights compared to 2000, especially on transatlantic routes, where there is a 30% decrease - and, to top it all off, the tragic accident the day before yesterday will undoubtedly only make the situation worse. the insurance companies have also decided to increase insurance premiums for passengers and aircraft in the event of an accident related to a war situation or an act of terrorism. they also decided to limit the airlines' coverage for damages to third parties in the same circumstances to $50 million. in addition, the additional security measures necessarily impose additional costs on airports and airlines. last but not least, us aid, namely more than $15 billion in direct and immediate aid and federal credits to airlines, more than $120 million for service providers, has therefore introduced distortions of competition with respect to european industry, in particular because it has enabled predatory practices by certain airlines on transatlantic routes. the economic and social consequences in europe of this combination of structural and cyclical factors are well known: bankruptcies and major difficulties of airlines, freezing of investments and violent crisis in the aviation industry. what have been the responses so far from the council? at their meetings on 14 september and 16 october, the transport ministers, as well as the european council and the economic and financial affairs ministers on 21 september, considered the consequences for the sector of the september 11 attacks in order to provide a rapid and coordinated response by all the member states which would support the restructuring of the sector while trying to preserve the basis for healthy competition. the transport council on 16 october in particular examined the proposals contained in the european commission's communication of 10 october on the economic situation in the sector, in an attempt to put a number of elements into place. firstly, the council very quickly coordinated the member states' insurance policies. it therefore decided that government aid to airlines and service providers to compensate for the lack of or inadequate war risk cover would be extended until 31 december. these schemes must be notified to the commission and examined by it on a monthly basis. as regards the cost of the additional security measures, the member states have accepted that it can be covered initially without being considered as state aid. however, they stressed the need for users and operators to contribute to the cost of this in the long term, after a return to a more normal situation. as regards the closure of airspace for four days, the council asked for and obtained from the commission some flexibility to allow the granting of limited aid beyond this period, on the basis of, of course, objective criteria, to airlines affected by the closure of airspace and its consequences. both the member states and the commission consider that such support must respect the main community acquis on the control of state aid to the sector and must not lead to distortions of competition. we reject the use of state aid by american companies to drive down prices. our companies are suffering from unfair competition from american companies. we must not allow such a situation to continue in the european union. that is why the presidency supports the commission's proposal to adopt a code of conduct with the united states, precisely to prevent or combat such distortions of competition. the council also took account of the request by some airlines for flexibility in the application of slot allocation procedures. in addition, one of the keys to a rapid recovery of air transport is obviously the return of passenger confidence. with this in mind, the presidency and the commission have been working very actively with the support of the other member states to define and implement as quickly as possible measures to strengthen security at airports and on board aircraft. this work is being carried out in two stages: the first, which is a priority, is aimed at making the recommendations of the european civil aviation conference on passenger and baggage control at airports, the fruit of many years of experience, more community-wide. the most effective controls are always carried out upstream. as you know, the council has invested a great deal of time and energy, particularly through a joint council-commission expert group, to enable a political agreement by the member states to be reached at the council meeting on 7 december. in the spirit of close coordination with the european parliament, it seems to me very important to get things done as quickly as possible. the council of 16 october expressed the hope that the european parliament would be able to give its opinion on this matter as soon as possible. i think our public opinion would hardly understand why the council or parliament is delaying in making progress on such a crucial matter. the presidency is at the disposal of the european parliament to facilitate a close dialogue between the two institutions and to make the members of the european parliament benefit from the expertise of its specialists with a view to rapid adoption. in a second stage we will examine the need for additional security measures on the basis of the final report of this joint ad hoc group, which will be presented on 7 december. some may require legislative initiatives to complete the first stage represented by the safety regulation currently under consideration. the council meeting on 16 october therefore made it possible to react in a coherent way to the crisis in the sector, but we must now ensure that the sector is rebuilt on a sound and solid basis, given that we know that the current crisis could last for many months. in order to contribute to today's debate, i would like to share my personal analysis of the prospects for the sector and what action should be taken. this debate, which has not yet begun in the council, is all the more necessary in this parliament since parliament will of course be involved in it in the months ahead. structurally, we must therefore ensure that the sector is able to restructure itself, in the form of a rearrangement of the european sky around a few major alliances. one way of enabling airlines to restore their real viability is to channel the competitive pressure on the sector better, in particular through some form of consolidation. without advocating mergers or acquisitions which would require a comprehensive overhaul of the competition regulatory system, the formation of alliances or commercial arrangements would be sufficient to begin to alleviate a number of problems. this would, for example, limit the overcapacity which is hampering the performance of the sector and dampen excessive competition on certain lines. the aim is to exploit the economies of scale and network which are particularly developed in this sector. we must also consider with the commission a strategy for dealing with similar situations in the long term, and in particular consider the necessary adaptations to the european competition rules, overcoming, if possible, the current legal obstacles. this raises the sensitive question of airline control and also calls for further reflection on the role of the european community vis-à-vis third countries, particularly the united states. we must allow the large european airlines, around which the future air landscape will be organized, to be better armed against their large north american competitors. in this context, i personally support the commission being given a clear mandate to negotiate with international partners, particularly the united states. it is important for the future of civil aviation that the european union speaks with one voice. but i believe that the first and necessary step in this step forward is the establishment of a more coherent and comprehensive regulatory framework for the aviation sector. this 'internal' framework must provide a sound basis for the redevelopment of the sector and avoid distortions of competition. clear and binding regulatory framework must emerge from the current wasteland. all areas of aviation must be involved in this movement, whether it is safety, security, noise control or environmental protection more generally. as such, the commission's proposals on the single european sky need to be examined swiftly. this project is the starting point for a regulatory framework which will have to be as detailed as possible in order to build a strong and united european market. the european union must eventually become an equal partner in international negotiations, especially vis-à-vis its american counterparts. i hope that we will have the opportunity to return to the question of the community's competence in international negotiations on air transport with my colleagues in the transport council. this reflection will have to provide a framework for the conditions of such a mandate and the guarantees to be given to the member states as regards the transparency of such negotiations conducted on behalf of the community. the social aspect of the crisis must also be tackled in depth. the bankruptcy of sabena and the announced redundancies are a reminder of the importance and urgency of this. the disappearance of an airline causes job losses not only within that company but also within its subcontracting companies. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between the cci and the cci-airport on 1 january 2005 was signed on behalf of the cci-airport and the cci-airport on 1 january 2005. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of air transport services. it therefore seems imperative for the belgian presidency that we can intervene in the area of social plans or the retraining of employees, while respecting the principle that public money should not be used to subsidize companies. it also seems imperative to deepen the analysis of the social and environmental impact of the liberalisation of air transport in order to promote greater harmonisation in this area. finally, it would be important to develop more targeted assistance from the european social fund. the programming documents drawn up by the commission and the member states must be able to be adapted to the crises in a sector. this will allow for a rapid response to the increase in the number of jobseekers and an equally rapid reorientation through rapid and appropriate skills upgrading. the problem, then, is to develop adaptability. the other imperatives include the need to implement a community-wide information and monitoring system for dismissal decisions, to strengthen consultation with the social partners and, finally, to establish a predictive crisis management system within the european observatory on change, which was inaugurated on 23 october in dublin. in this connection, it is important that the employment and social policy council of 3 december should study the commission communication on company restructuring, which was announced by the commission during the crisis at marks & spencer last summer. the concept of corporate social responsibility in the context of restructuring will be examined. the december employment council will certainly allow agreement to be reached on the directive on information and consultation of workers, which is also a definite step forward in the consultation of representative bodies in the event of a crisis. finally, in the long term, the challenge for us is also to ensure that civil aviation becomes a sustainable activity. safety and security, economic stability and respect for the environment are the essential components of the sustainable development of this sector, which brings me to my last point: the need to improve the environmental dimension of the sector. the measures needed to meet economic and social problems in the short term and the measures concerning safety standards in the medium term must not in any way prejudice the maintenance and expansion of the projects under way in this field. the growth of the sector in an environmentally friendly way is, in the long run, the condition for the survival of this mode of transport. we made considerable progress at the icao general assembly in montreal last september. we must take advantage of what the european union has achieved - which, believe me, was not guaranteed in advance - namely the taking into account of local, national and regional differences in the definition of these public policies, in order to adopt european regulations which effectively guarantee a high quality of environmental protection. we must make these policy advances a reality, in particular by taking adequate noise measures quickly, but also by adopting measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the framework of the commitment we made in kyoto and confirmed in bonn and marrakesh.
the commission. madam president, european civil aviation has had and still has serious structural weaknesses. the events of september 11 had a multiplier effect of worsening the existing situation. passenger numbers for the main airlines have fallen dramatically and have now stabilised at a 20% decrease compared to 2000. the companies have announced 30,000 redundancies in the last few months. two national airlines, sabena and swissair, have gone bankrupt. the sabena bankruptcy led to the loss of 7,500 jobs overnight. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. last week i had a meeting with the european partners representing all the sectors in the aviation sector. an interesting description was given. the airline industry is a global village. a global village that has been hit by an earthquake and all its buildings are at risk, large or small, strong or weak. the commission's proposal is to make the european parliament responsible for the implementation of the directive. i think it is important to send a clear message, and i agree entirely with secretary durant: we will not help the industry if we allow the economic crisis that has come from 9/11 to delay decisions on its restructuring and consolidation. the main message should be that the answer must be to restructure the airline industry. it is important to agree that we cannot help the sector with a massive injection of public money but, at the same time, we must understand that restructuring in a time of crisis cannot be done without additional economic and social tools. the communication adopted by the european commission on 10 october entitled 'the impact of the terrorist attacks in the united states of america on the aviation industry' is the first response to the state of emergency and therefore focuses on restoring confidence by designing additional security measures and financial measures to support the industry. i would of course agree with the minister that in the european union, because of the institutional characteristics and the specific policies we have, we have not had the possibility of reacting directly, as happened in the united states of america, to the support of european enterprises. the commission has already taken a number of important steps in this direction. the european commission is examining, under state aid rules, measures to compensate airlines for losses suffered during the four days of us airspace closure. this compensation must be granted to all airlines authorised by the member state. the european commission, again under state aid rules, will examine various measures to compensate for the additional costs of insurance and continuation of state interventions until the end of this year. in the light of the competition rules and internal market legislation relating to insurance, the commission is currently verifying some medium-term monthly insurance schemes. the commission is also considering a longer-term solution to the problem of insurance within the european commission. finally, the commission and the transport council invited member states to verify that third country carriers can offer the same level of insurance cover as provided for european carriers. the question of ownership and control is more important than ever to enable the necessary restructuring and stabilisation of the air transport industry. the restrictions imposed on airlines by the traditional ownership and control rules in the bilateral air services agreement make both mergers and acquisitions and outsourcing very difficult, even if the companies are in a difficult financial situation. the community therefore needs a common dynamic policy in the field of external relations. in order to initiate this process, the european commission has for many years been asking the council for negotiating directives which would make it possible to negotiate an eu/united states of america air traffic agreement. such an agreement would be to the benefit of our own aviation industry. finally, the european commission, in accordance with the regulations on available landing/take-off time, considers that the situation is extremely critical and agrees to propose to airport managers to allow carriers to maintain the available use time not used during the summer 2001 season as well as during the current winter 2001/2002 season for the next corresponding planning periods. the minister-president of the council made very clear the particular problems and the need for immediate european policy and agreement at european level. i shall not repeat certain things, but i shall dwell a little more on the social crisis. as mentioned above, there are already 30,000 layoffs in a few weeks. it's across industries, and there's a study going on right now to look at the impact on related industries and airlines. the analysis of the causes of redundancies leads to many and varied factors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. others are due to falling demand. one part in a belated readjustment of the possibilities for correcting the relationship between supply and demand, after many years of high growth. it is difficult to analyse the causes of all the redundancies at once, but we must certainly look at the possibilities for direct intervention, and the role of the european union and the european commission. first of all, it must be said that there is a relatively complete legislative framework which enables companies to consult with workers in order to find new models of work organization with the aim of reducing redundancies as much as possible. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the proposals for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. but of course the legislation cannot stop the layoffs at the moment. the community resources available should therefore be used to address the effects of the crisis. there is a financial instrument at european level, the european social fund. it can be used in three ways: the first is through the european employment strategy, training, retraining or, in many cases, helping the unemployed to retain the skills they risk losing in such a specialised labour market. the second is the possibility of supporting wage-earners where jobs are threatened. the problem of small and mediumsized satellite companies around airlines has already been mentioned. thirdly, through the social fund, to mobilise regional and local authorities for programmes to deal with, for example, the closure of small airports or local problems involving redundancies or crises in specific sectors, so that they can be dealt with at regional level. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a principle which is also reflected in the treaty of rome. it is also worth mentioning that sabena will also receive some measures co-financed by the european social fund. these are the tools that we have, legislative and social. of course, one of the most important tools in times of crisis is always social dialogue and discussion with the social partners. the european commission, in the wake of the september 11 crisis, launched the european sectoral dialogue on aviation. discussions have already taken place with the social partners through the sectoral dialogue committee and it was decided that a european workshop will be held on 3 december involving all sectors at the level of the social partners, but also national representatives of the 15 member states, where the issue of the impact on employment and the social problems caused will be discussed specifically with a view to agreeing jointly on measures that we can take into account directly. madam president, as in this period of crisis, when there are no easy answers and no easy remedies, proper and immediate cooperation between the european institutions, as well as between the european institutions and the social partners, is a prerequisite for the next steps. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, the reason for this urgent resolution is self-evident. i should like firstly to thank the representatives from the other groups involved in drawing together this compromise. it is true to say that since the attacks on the usa in september the aviation industry has suffered catastrophic consequences, not least on passenger confidence, but in addition for the tens of thousands of jobs which have already been lost worldwide and in particular across europe. unfortunately this situation is not confined to the airline industry. the knock-on effects are now evident, both in the aerospace manufacturing sector and in tourism. in my own country, the united kingdom, the slow recovery following the foot-and-mouth epidemic has suffered a major setback which is truly hard to bear. whatever the failures of some of the companies in the european union to face the challenges of the business world, the vast majority of businesses have, through no fault of their own, found themselves on the brink of bankruptcy, or even worse. i recall my own government, along with other national leaders, insisting within three or four days of the incident that help would be given as quickly as possible. unfortunately, apart from the short-term assistance concerning insurance cover, which should have been 180 days as at the outset in the united states, no financial help has been forthcoming. i am not aware of any compensation for financial losses due to the closure of us airspace and airports, or for the additional security measures that the aviation industry has been expected to put in place. it is member states which should assume responsibility for security costs. in short, the situation is a disgrace, not least because job losses outlined two months ago by many businesses are already escalating due to the lack of help. we in this parliament want action – and we want it now. we are not interested in waiting for some case-by-case consideration by the commission which may be agreed some time in the future. we demand that interim financial aid packages be made available now to those eligible. in conclusion, i must inform the commission and the council that it is my intention to keep this issue at the top of the agenda and i expect at the very least a report back to this parliament at the november ii part-session on the progress that has been made. i hope that fellow meps will support the comments i have made, because we must remember that thousands of livelihoods are at stake. inaction is not an option, nor is a lecture on environmental issues, because at the rate we are going we will not have an aviation industry to worry about. (applause)
madam president, i came to the chamber this morning with a prepared speech about the situation in the airline industry. i have radically altered that, in view of what i have heard from the president-in-office and the commissioner this morning. frankly, what we have heard is totally unacceptable. we are faced with a classic scenario of the council of ministers fiddling like some modern-day nero while the aviation industry of the european union burns. madam president-in-office, we are in a deep crisis. you, more than anybody else, should know that from your own member state. airlines have gone bankrupt. others are on the brink of bankruptcy – and what response do we get? we get a suggestion that the commission can go and sit down with the americans and talk to them about the aid they are giving to try and level the playing field. by the time that happens there will not be a european civil aviation industry left to put on that level playing field! we need action now. we do not want fiddling at the edges, we want direct action so that our civil aviation industry can survive and have a future of its own. the response from the united states after the events of 11 september was direct and straight to the point. they made usd 5 billion available to their airlines straight away and offered another usd 10 billion in indirect aid to help them over other crises should they arise. and what did we do? we fiddled at the edges and said, "well, we might do this" and, as mrs foster said, "well, we said you could pay compensation for the lost days". that is not enough. we need direct action now. what appalled me today was the tone of the contribution from the commission and the president-in-office. it is as if they are accepting that airlines will have to go bust and that thousands of jobs will have to go, without doing anything to stop it. before today i suspected that member states wanted to use this crisis to consolidate the industry, to get rid of some of the airlines. well, today the president-in-office all but admitted that this is the case. if that is so, then i condemn it. members of the trade unions are with us today in the gallery. i say to them: i give you the support of my group in the quest to keep a european civil aviation industry alive. sadly, from what i have heard today, a similar commitment from the council of ministers seems to be a good way off. i just wonder, madam president-in-office, whether people in history will remember the belgian presidency of the year 2001 as the presidency that oversaw the demise of europe's civil aviation industry. (applause)
mr president, we have to restore public confidence in aviation and we have to let the market decide what happens to the airlines themselves. restoring public confidence means getting security screening right and improving the quality of staff, training, job procedures, pay and conditions. it means, perhaps, ensuring that there is a state-run security operation at airports and paying accordingly. that may well create more jobs. so far as the airlines and their financial viability are concerned, we do not want more intervention, more bureaucracy and more delay. we need targeted assistance in areas like insurance and the cost of security. we must let the market decide what the future of the airline industry shall be. as was said earlier, sabena made a profit in only one year out of the many years that it has been in existence. aer lingus, alitalia, air france and klm are not far behind. why the devil should we support aer lingus when ryanair can make money without any difficulties at all – like easyjet, like go, like buzz? all those airlines can make money at a difficult time. why should we therefore bail out the sabenas and the aer linguses with their overcapacity, with too many routes, too few passengers and too much state pride? i have two specific questions that i wish to ask the president-in-office of the council. firstly, i am led to believe that there are problems with the sabena slots that have been offered, in britain, for example, to british midland and british european airways. they may have them for a short time but there is some suggestion from the coordinator that they may be lost in six months time if dat is reformed and wants those slots back. that is unacceptable. if sabena cannot fill those slots then others should be allowed to use them. secondly, what is being done to ensure that the staff at brussels airport does not restrict the movement of those new-slot airlines as a result of picketing and delays at the airport? we need guarantees of freedom of movement on the ground as well as in the air.
mr president, the tragic events of 11 september have certainly changed the face of the aviation industry and will probably have more effects in the months to come. today i want to deal with the effect they are having on the regional areas of europe, rather than the major cities like london, birmingham and paris, because they will survive and receive support. we in northern ireland watched with interest as sabena pulled out, and then aer lingus, which provided a service from belfast to shannon for transatlantic flights and was used by many people in northern ireland. the republic of ireland's government said it wanted greater cooperation with northern ireland, but the first time there is a bit of trouble, it runs away! that is the kind of cooperation we unionists have to put up with! no one can persuade me that some of these large companies have not used this situation to put some of their own problems right. british airways stayed in northern ireland and stood by its staff through bombs and bullets. what has it done? it has pulled out of northern ireland as well! i condemn it for that. i hope, commissioner, that you will ensure that it is not allowed to keep those slots in order to open up more lucrative routes and that if other companies are prepared to start up from the regions those slots will be given to them. i certainly feel very strongly about this. i am not in favour of giving large amounts of money to bail out inefficient companies. to some extent mr atkins is right: there are other companies out there which are making money and they have to be supported. i say to the commission and the council that they cannot come here and give us a lecture. they will have to come back with firm and positive proposals. it is time for action and time for a dose of realism. if the council and the commission cannot do it now, we will harry them until they do!
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her serious and very committed work on this issue and also the work that our own committee has done, as mr rocard has just pointed out. this action programme is a very serious and important step forward for the european union. it is part of the recognition of the huge problem of social exclusion which is not only the result of poverty, although it is of course linked to it. some of those links are picked up in the excellent report by mrs lynne which we will be debating later, concerning the european year of disabled people, and in mr nobilia's report which recognises the problems faced by elderly or disabled people in exercising, for example, their freedom of movement because disability benefits are not included in the coordination of social security systems. in our discussions on this action programme, parliament has insisted on the need for civil society to be involved in the programme itself and its evaluation. this involvement is critical. it is clear that the top-down policies, and the hope that overall economic growth would somehow overcome the poverty and lift the poorest out of that state, have not worked. it is the constructive involvement of the people themselves that is part of the solution. we therefore expect that the research and programmes funded with this modestly increased amount of money, a limited range as mr rocard has just said, will not just concentrate on policy but also on the process of policy formulation and funding decisions, which in itself could be an innovative dimension. i recently attended a local government conference looking at the national social inclusion plans. speakers representing organisations from groups which often experience social exclusion – poor people, those with disabilities, those from minority ethnic groups etc. – were asked whether they would rather see the implementation of a few policies that have worked elsewhere or have a full programme of real consultation, even if they did not then get what they wanted. the answer, without exception, was that they wanted to be consulted because that implied respect for their experience and their opinions. it is also my hope that the activities funded under this programme will not just concentrate on work as the answer to exclusion. it is not a solution if the work is poorly paid and exploitative. i, like many others, look forward to reading and evaluating the results of this programme and hope that they will make real progress in tackling social exclusion.
madam president, when will my report be debated – the lynne report on the european year of people with disabilities, 2003? will that now be at around 3.30 p.m.? we have a sign language interpreter arriving now for the debate at 5.30 p.m. because everything has been changed around so much that we do not know when this report is being debated. i have deaf members of the public attending and we have the sign language interpreter. so can we please stick to some sort of timetable?
mr president, we understand the reasons why commissioners lamy and fischler cannot be with us this afternoon. could you confirm, however, that there will be an opportunity for those two commissioners to report to us on the important negotiations at doha and whether the eu's views were accepted or not.
madam president, on a point of order. i was in the members' bar before we started voting. i saw a piece of baggage on a chair. for approximately 15 minutes nobody came for it. a man approached and i asked him whether it was his bag. i told him that, in view of the security situation, it was advisable to stay with one's baggage and that, in addition, to be in the members' bar you had to be invited by a member. he was extremely arrogant and annoyed. he took his bag and marched away. he said that he knew mrs muscardini. she then arrived in the bar; i asked her that if she knew the gentlemen, and said that due to the security problems, i had informed him politely of the situation. i should like to say to this house that we as members of this parliament also have a responsibility. we have been asking for security measures to be stepped up and we all, therefore, must take responsibility for the people we bring here or allow here in our name. i would just ask you, madam president, to remind the house of our responsibilities for future security.
madam president, mr katiforis is quite correct, but if the precedent in this house, is anything to go by, now that parliament has made a proposal, in five years' time the commission will come forward with an idea which we will reject again.
, chairman of the committee on budgets. – madam president, it would be an oral amendment, which would be a new recital 12. it would also apply to the draft legislative resolution and would read: "the proposal was not foreseen in the financial perspective. the financial envelope of the proposal should be covered by additional resources."
madam president, i just wanted to follow up the previous point of order and ask when are we going to be able to debate the proposals in mr corbett's report – which i understand are stuck in the committee on constitutional affairs – so that this ludicrous procedure, with six pages of plenary amendments on one report, can be reformed. we will be a laughing stock if we do not reform and get our house in order. (applause)
madam president, there is a short oral amendment which has been agreed by all signatories of this compromise resolution and reads as follows: in paragraph 2, after the word ‘terrorism’, a new sentence saying: ‘demands that national governments assume responsibility for additional security costs.’
madam president, you have presided over 358 separate votes just now. i hope colleagues will agree that this underlines the need to reform our rules of procedure.
). – i am afraid i cannot agree with mr corbett's point about the votes in this plenary. there are many committees in this parliament, which do not have representation from every member state. therefore we will find those people will be disenfranchised and that is becoming a greater problem as the european union enlarges. we must have the opportunity for members from every member state to be able to vote on these reports and on these important amendments.
madam president, a number of colleagues have remarked that it is a very bad thing to have so many votes on these occasions, but i would like to congratulate you on having kept us going. i do not know for what purpose my constituents elected me if it was not to exercise discretion and choice in deciding what things to vote about. i do not think we do a more important thing than cast our votes for and against proposals in this house and objecting to that is a very foolish thing. moreover, if one looks at the votes cast today, there were very few foregone conclusions: there were close votes on all the roll-call votes and that seems to me to show the need to test these matters by voting. the idea that we should have fewer votes seems absurd. that said, i should like to make a remark about the watson report. once we have got to the point of having community law, if that law is defied it seems perfectly obvious that there have to be within our nation states – and nations which are not states – criminal rules which uphold it, otherwise the states pass laws which they are not able to enforce and the community becomes a laughing stock. of course, that requires a proper safeguard and proper defence rights. these days we are thinking about defending our civilisation. our civilisation is to do with giving people proper rights of defence and i am sad at recent developments in the united kingdom that seem to be ending these rights.
mr president, just before i begin on the flemming report i want to speak about the katiforis report, which we rejected. i feel very strongly that by rejecting that report we have done nothing today in this house to promote public health. we should never forget that tobacco is the biggest cause of preventable illness across the eu and that each year half a million eu citizens die needlessly due to tobacco. the commission's proposal would have helped people to stop smoking and it is very sad that we did not support this. however, on to the matter at hand – the flemming report. although the report was rejected, i should like to explain why i and my two colleagues from scotland supported some of the amendments. firstly, we believe that, in line with amendment no 3, no country may be obliged to hand over water against its will and free of charge. the amendment speaks for itself, and that it is why we supported it. amendment no 5 was concerned with the more technical matter of water basins. we agree that water basin areas are not suitable bases for water pricing policies in all regions. much of our water in scotland is in inter-basin management and, therefore, we had to support it. thirdly, the rejection of the flemming report probably was ensuring that no one report could be hijacked by such a national interest. i hope we will continue the discussion on water, as so many of our citizens are very concerned with this issue.
in writing. - the commission's white paper is wrong and the report drawn up by mrs schörling is completely wrong. the report is based on the premise that a large number of chemical compounds pose a threat to public health and the environment and ignores the positive effects on society, health and the environment of many man-made chemicals. paragraph 16 of the report seeks to extend the reach system to chemical compounds produced under one tonne per year, which would potentially multiply by 20 the number of chemical compounds requiring authorization and impose an impossible workload on the staff concerned. the scope should be limited to chemical compounds produced in quantities of more than one tonne, as provided for in the white paper. paragraph 38, which defines substances to be classified as very dangerous, is too broad for a viable authorization system. the definition should be restricted to cmr substances (categories 1 and 2) and pops as defined in the stockholm convention. the report's provisions will lead to an unacceptable increase in the number of tests carried out on animals. a report by the uk's institute of environmental health estimated that 12.8 million animals would be needed to test 30,000 chemical compounds. these figures have been repeated by many european animal welfare groups. the rapporteur is aware of this problem but is too confident in the availability and acceptability of non-animal tests. moreover, the institute reports that it will take approximately 36 years to collect information at a "basic" level for chemical compounds produced at more than one tonne per year. the timetable set out in the report (2008) is therefore completely unrealistic. the european chemical industry was consulted far too late, and its attempts at self-regulation (e.g. responsible product management, the long range initiative and confidence in chemicals) were completely ignored in the rapporteur's work. as the proposals in its report seem likely to increase the administrative burden on the sector (and in particular on smes) and to affect its global competitiveness, this is a serious omission.
mr president, those of us who were in abuja and kano last year for the acp meeting welcomed president obasanjo's move from military dictatorship to democracy. we were also aware of the simmering tension in the country, particularly in the north, with outbreaks of violence. sharia law has been a potent symbol of the cause of that tension, demanded by some muslims, feared by most christians and other faiths; partly the result of northern nigeria not benefiting from independence and oil as the south has done, and a resentment of corruption that they see as chronic in the country. thousands have died as a result of violence, especially in kaduna and many christian homes, churches and businesses have been destroyed. the zanfara state government has given local vigilante groups the power to implement sharia law. in reply seventeen southern states have demanded the right to set up their own police forces. northerners are leaving lagos after riots that have led to deaths. in the north, journalists in kano are threatened with sharia law if they represent it in a negative way. now we see in benue and taraba in east and central nigeria tribal, not religious, wars. the jukun and tiv disputes are about land and ancient rivalries, not about religion. nineteen soldiers who were trying to keep the peace were abducted and murdered. then we saw the awful reprisals in which zakibian, a town of 20 000 people, was destroyed and over 200 people killed. of course we welcome president obasanjo's announcement of an inquiry. ethnic and religious violence must be stopped in nigeria. there must be equality before the law and not fear and violence. corruption from whatever source must be rooted out. the european union must support this. it must also provide humanitarian support for nigeria, where over 200 people have died of cholera in the last few weeks, and help the people who have been displaced as a result of this violence.
mr president, algeria has been a troubled country for many years. its reputation and image abroad has been damaged by the violence, massacres and abuses of human rights there, but that is nothing compared with the pain and suffering of its people at home. one million people died in the fight for independence and another 100 000 have died in the current power struggles between islamic militants and the military and among the minority berber community seeking political and cultural recognition. now in this country, four fifths of which – ironically – is saharan desert, we have the catastrophe of flooding in algiers with the death toll in flash floods rising towards 1 000 as the grim task of sifting through the mud and the rubble goes on. it is not the first such calamity. in 1994, 30 000 people were made homeless in the tindouf area, but the difference is that on that occasion seven lives were lost, while this time 693 people have already died and over 300 people are missing, with some 20 000 people thought to be homeless. the urgency now is for the european union to play its part in providing humanitarian aid. there is a clear need for shelter, for food, for medical supplies and i certainly welcome the eur 750 000 which has been given for this purpose under the echo fund, and indeed the promised eur 225 million from the european investment bank for drinking water supply lines. there is also a need for adequate heavy equipment to deal with situations like this and even picks and shovels seem to be in short supply. certainly no sniffer dogs appear to be available. given algeria's position in an earthquake area it would certainly be prudent to have such things available for the future. i would like to hear from the commission what proposals it has to deal with this. there is also the need to look at the policy of sealing the floodwater drains against terrorist activities, which in this case has clearly exacerbated the situation.
mr president, we are quite properly concerned about the spread of small arms and light weapons, particularly the illegal traffick in, and uncontrolled circulation of, these weapons. i am not sure why parliament has decided to bring forward an urgent resolution at this time, unless it wants to contribute something useful in the context of the current international crisis, the continuing threat posed by weapons held by terrorists or the consequences of the large accumulation of weapons in taliban hands in afghanistan. there is some passing reference to these matters in the motion for a resolution which contains many useful elements. for many years i have worked to overcome the problem of anti-personnel landmines but i have always sought to focus attention on the real culprits who use such weapons indiscriminately and irresponsibly. usually these were armed rebel groups in developing countries with no concern for human life and they had been supplied by non-western countries. it is important, therefore, that when considering the matter of small arms we should take care not to become over-obsessed with our own authorities or industry: these are the easy targets. instead, we should focus on terrorist groups and other criminal elements that are sitting on stockpiles of weapons or continuing to obtain them from various sources. it is scandalous, for example, that there has been toleration for so long of large stockpiles of weapons held by terrorist organisations such as the ira in one eu member state, in order that it may threaten or carry out attacks in another. in relation to afghanistan it is to be hoped that a legitimate government with democratic aspirations will be established there very soon, anxious to engage positively in the real world and begin the development of a sustainable economy and a better life for all its people. there must also be efforts to remove weapons in taliban hands and integrate ex-combatants back into some sort of mainstream society. i am not referring to terrorists there. much has been achieved. our focus for the future in relation to small arms should be on identifying and destroying stocks of weapons held by insurgents, terrorists and criminals and cutting off their sources of supply. this is the area on which we should be concentrating our efforts over the coming months and years.
mr president, nearly ten years ago, in the early 1990s, i travelled through the khyber pass, a trip i can strongly recommend to all colleagues – though perhaps not at this moment. at the top there is a small village where you can buy food, water and "souvenirs". the "souvenirs" are drugs, home-made kalashnikovs and home-made surface-to-air rocket launchers. with the money i had on me i calculated that i could buy ten kalashnikovs or three rocket launchers. the only problem was how to get them home through customs, so i did not buy them! coming forward to 10 october this year, at the united nations in new york there was a speech by the american assistant secretary for arms control. he used wonderful sounding sentences, such as "we must redouble our non-proliferation and arms control efforts", "the entire globe faces a security challenge!" but he had no proposals at all for controlling small arms. why? because the extremely powerful and wealthy organisation called the national rifle association – the nra – helped to elect the present administration, which will therefore not stand up to the association. with the events of 11 september and the high murder rate inside the united states of america, i wonder just what it will take for america to cooperate with the rest of the world on this problem. my group supports the motion because it is a small step in the right direction.
rapporteur. – mr president, i welcome the sign language interpreter. i only wish that we could have sign language interpretation for all our debates to make sure that all people could access all the reports. the timing of this debate is very sad, when so few members are present in the chamber and, even more importantly, to vote later. it is very important to demonstrate our commitment to disabled people. putting the report right at the end of a strasbourg agenda does not demonstrate any commitment. having said that, i thank the commission for their cooperation on my report and all the other members of the european parliament's committee on employment and social affairs. i have managed to incorporate a number of their amendments. i believe that is one of the main reasons why we do not have any new amendments today. the european year of disabled people, 2003 must not just pay lip service to the problems that disabled people face. we need to have concrete outcomes. for a start, we must truly move away from the medical model of disability to the social and rights-based model of disability. we must make sure that we mainstream disabled people; that all legislation takes account of the specific needs of disabled people, whether they are wheelchair users, someone with a visual impairment, someone with a hearing impairment, someone with a learning difficulty, or someone with a mental health problem. all eu citizens should have equal rights. i hope that in 2003 – if not before – we make sure that all of parliament's buildings are accessible to disabled people – they are not at the moment – and that all eu member states are aware of the problems that disabled people face. i shall tell you a story about what happened to jenny, one of my constituents, the coordinator of access charter. i invited her over to the article 13 anti-discrimination hearings. she uses a wheelchair. for a start, she could not get into the parliament's buildings in brussels without going through revolving doors because they refused to open the double doors. i remonstrated with them. they unlocked them, took off the rope that was binding them and then 20 minutes later they were locked and bound again. we booked her a hotel room with disabled people's access. somebody had put a bed across the bathroom door and so she could not get in. she had to change hotels. she then went out to try to get something to eat at night, with her colleagues – remember she was using a wheelchair. no taxi in brussels would stop for her. she managed to get to a restaurant. the manager then came out and said "you can't come in here. your appearance will put off other diners." when she got to the airport she was subjected to a full body search. she remonstrated with the security people. one of them said: "have a nice trip. i hope your plane crashes."! that demonstrates the problems that disabled people face and the real need for a disability directive. i hope we will hear the announcement of that in 2003. we have to have funding for major research into the status of disabled people. we have to have a study into the situation disabled people face in institutions in particular. it is essential that regional and local government are involved in this year but, more importantly, that organisations of disabled people and representing disabled people are involved in this year. i have called specifically for a funding increase from eur 12 million to eur 15 million over the two years. particularly for sign language interpretation, for personal assistance, for accessible meeting rooms, for hotels etc., there are added costs; in addition, funding for impairment-specific ngos is only for 2002, not for the year itself. furthermore, in line with the article 13 action programme on anti-discrimination, i have called for subsidies for the expenses for special events at european level to go up from "not exceeding 80%" to "not exceeding 90%". we must also have a proper evaluation of the year in clear and simple language, and in accessible formats. i made my report available in all accessible formats at my own expense. but i would like the commission, in future, to make available on request any report at whatever stage in accessible format. finally, the year must be the step in the right direction to combat discrimination. but more importantly, it has to be a celebration of disabled people's contribution to society. (applause)
under rule 19(4), may i ask you to personally intervene with the greek authorities on behalf of my constituents paul and lesley coppin of mildenhall, and anna skinner of epping, in relation to her brother anthony adamiak, and on behalf of the other europeans who are currently in jail in greece for plane spotting. we respect the independence of the judiciary in greece and the cooperation we have thus far been given from the greek authorities, but when these people have already been in prison for three weeks without charge and now have a further two weeks before charges are brought, i hope you will agree that there is an urgent humanitarian need for an appeal on their behalf and also a need to remind the greek authorities of their absolute duty under the convention on human rights to bring charges before defendants. twelve people went on holiday and have ended up in jail. i ask for your intervention on behalf of the european parliament. (applause)
- i've been as generous as i can be, mr. de clercq, but we must respect the time allotted to your commission.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. – mr president, i am pleased that mr prodi is here to listen to this. the environment committee is very unhappy with the idea of voluntary agreements, as a way of proceeding. we want to see a legal framework for them because we believe that this is far too much like secret law-making. we are not at all happy about the co-regulatory approach – whatever that may be – because we see that as a way of moving away from binding legal instruments, which can sideline democratic control. mr prodi will know that we are very happy with the idea of publishing expert advice. we are grateful for what crumbs we receive and would like to see sometimes the authorship of the legislation which we then tear apart. on the question of implementation, we are very worried about the application of the law and i quote "in a way that takes account of regional and local conditions". we feel it would be better to draw up the law in a more flexible way in the first place. if you are going to take account of regional and local conditions, it probably means that you are going to upset the conditions of fair and equal competition. we see a great need for the commission to devote more energy to the issue of implementation and we see no real need to establish criteria to focus its work in investigating possible breaches of the law. what they need is more staff. finally, i recommend to mr prodi to read the occasional paper produced by the european policy centre on regulatory impact analysis. it provides the idea of having a regulatory impact analysis on all new legislation to assess the need for it, to examine alternatives and to examine its overall impact. it would include, and this may not recommend itself to mr prodi or his staff, the idea of a specific regulatory assessment office in the office of the commission secretary-general. i think that would be a very good idea.
mr president, in february 1787, a previous convention met in philadelphia. several of the american states were opposed to calling the thing in the first place and several others were determined to restrict its mandate and to dilute its effect. the convention's formal brief was extremely restrictive and it was not itself to decide but only propose. yet from that experiment flowered the american constitution and the post-colonial parliamentary democracy that we still recognise today. such a similar result will only come out of this european convention, if we as a parliament are bold, well-organised and persuasive. beneath the presidency of our european george washington, we must draft a clear set of proposals and, while accepting the questions set for us by laeken, we must retain the capacity to ask ourselves some questions. let us be truly creative for europe.
mr president, the union already has implicitly in the treaties the bones of a constitution. we all look to the convention to make it explicit and clear and to create the proper legal framework for a thoroughly democratic europe. that, of course, will involve, as has been said in parts of this debate, fully recognising the prerogatives and powers of this great all-european parliamentary assembly. but democracy at this level will not be effective unless it is also fully effective at the level of the little battalions: at the level of the local authorities, at the level of the constitutional regions, the self-governing internal nations of the member states. now that means that the convention must look to that question as well, and improving governance in europe must, as the commission has said, look closely at the proper involvement of regional and local authorities. i thought that the commission was somewhat timid in what they said about that, but alas, parliament argues yet further timidity and talks down all the references in the white paper to regional involvement with the commission. recital m and paragraph 26 are to be deeply regretted as currently phrased in mrs kaufmann's otherwise admirable report. we want to see these amended. we want to see a strengthening of the reference to the necessary involvement of the commission and parliament with the regional and local authorities, as well as with national parliaments. we do not want to subvert the constitutional framework of europe. we want to improve it.
the commission and parliament are right about one thing, the eu lacks democratic legitimacy. furthermore, no layman, nor many meps, really understand how the whole thing works. the white paper and this report are all part of a hard sell, the idea being to sell the eu concept to our citizens more aggressively so that the people will learn to love it. beneath all of this is the interinstitutional battle and both mr prodi and parliament are desperate to preserve the community method, fearing there is too much intergovernmentalism about. whoever wins this battle between the institutions will make no difference to ordinary people. it is time to put the true intentions of the eu project to the electorate in each member state. only then will we know whether they want to be a part of it and whether the project can ever work. but perhaps after ireland, denmark and switzerland, that may be taking democracy a stage too far for all of you.
may i offer my congratulations to the co-rapporteurs for an excellent report and also to the belgian presidency for having carried the idea, born in parliament, of preparing the next intergovernmental conference by means of a convention nearly to fruition, although we still have the laeken summit to come. this is a dramatic improvement on the preparations of previous intergovernmental conferences. instead of the usual group of foreign ministry officials meeting together behind closed doors we will have a publicly representative body taking ideas from a wide public debate and coming up with a coherent set of proposals for reform. this is a tremendous opportunity but does not guarantee results and it is for us to make something of it. we will do so if we avoid divisions on the theology or vocabulary of european integration where we are sometimes divided on the word even though we are united on the substance. let me give a couple of examples: in some political parties and countries the word "federalism" is mistakenly equated with centralism and they talk of creating a centralised super-state in the way that mr farage spoke earlier. that is not what anybody wants and if you define federalism as different levels of governance, as decentralised as possible but centralised where necessary with each level democratically structured, then we already have the beginnings of a federal-type system and i am happy, under that definition, to proclaim myself a federalist. in some countries the word "constitution" is an almost sacred text that has emerged after revolution or after national independence. in other countries such as the united kingdom it is a more pragmatic concept. in that pragmatic sense we already have a european constitution, not a very good one, but we have it and we should improve it further. the constitution is the treaties which lay down the field of competence of the eu, the powers of the institutions, the legislative and the budgetary procedures. let us recognise that de facto they form our constitution. let us improve our constitution by firstly codifying it to make it simple and clear in a single text so that citizens can see how this constitution operates, and secondly by clarifying it in several ways: clarifying the responsibilities, what the union is and is not responsible for and clarifying the structures. let me give one example of confusion that we have now. the functions of mr solana and mr patten should be merged into a single individual to represent the union externally, perhaps with a special status as a specially appointed vice-president of the commission. finally, as regards clarity and democratic accountability: it is essential that all legislation passes the two tests of acceptability to the council representing the states and acceptability to parliament representing the citizens, a double guarantee as to the quality and acceptability of european legislation. i said this is an opportunity, but it is not a guarantee. we must fight to make the necessary changes come about through the convention.
counsel. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i had originally intended to reply to all the speakers point by point, but i am afraid that the late hour does not allow me to go into detail. i shall, however, try to answer as concretely as possible. first of all, i would like to thank the european parliament and most of the speakers very sincerely for the quality of the speeches i have heard and for the extraordinary european willingness i have seen here. i must tell you that in the other european institutions where i sit, i do not hear the same voluntarism every day. so here i find a cure for optimism that i did not expect. the level of ambition you set for the construction of europe is of course very much in line with an idea and an ambition that i share and that we share. so, a few days from laeken, it's definitely a welcome commitment, and one that i've heard from just about everyone. i am convinced that someone said that the laeken summit would be a difficult exercise, because, particularly in the debate on the future of europe, it will confront the 15 countries of the union with a number of choices which are so many turning points and so important for the future of europe that some of them will necessarily have to practice an extremely difficult virtue in politics: the virtue of renunciation. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to focus for a moment on the convention, and i would first like to tell you what the convention is not. perhaps this will help me to reassure those who already see in the convention a thousand and one reasons for giving up certain things they have always believed in, and which are hampering europe. the convention is not, and has never been, the igc. the convention cannot be an alibi either, and i believe it was mr méndez de vigo who said so. in my view, it must first be a useful sounding board. i could still translate that another way. it can also be a challenge to the political responsibility of the members of the igc, who will have to accept this challenge, or not, because i suppose it will put every member of the council before his political responsibility. for example, suppose that the convention proposes, on a given subject in relation to a fundamental question for the future of europe, three or four options, one of which is presented unanimously or by consensus, another presented to 80% of the members, and a third presented to 50-50. we know that the igc will not have to choose between these options and that it could very well decide to choose another option, to invent something else, to give these options a different response than the one the convention would have produced. in this case, each member of the igc, when it takes responsibility, when it adopts one or the other option, or when it actually leaves the options presented by the convention, will at the same time take the risk of being in a false position, not only with the convention, but with civil society which must, somewhere, make its intentions, its expectations, its hopes towards this convention stick. so let us not underestimate the fact that the convention is not a decision-making body, let us not underestimate its political weight, its political strength. i do not hide from you that i have some reservations about the composition of the european parliament, although i do not think that the request to increase the number of members should be closed down today. i think that is a fairly legitimate question, although i must remind you that in our proposal we have taken up the proportions which were used for the charter of fundamental rights. the difference with the charter is that the participation of the candidate countries is acquired. that's a difference we have to take into account. i would remind you that at the european council in ghent, demands were made that were contrary to what the european parliament demands. several countries have called for an increase in the number of national parliamentarians, either to ensure that the ruling coalition is better represented, to take account of subnational entities, or because of the bicameral system. in the end, it is not the quantity but the quality that counts, and i think that the european parliamentarians will always have an advantage because of their mastery of this matter and the procedures. i would like to add a small comment on this composition: it would be unfortunate if there were to be sterile rivalries between blocs or between specific components. i think that the debate must be open, we must not count ourselves according to the body to which we belong. i believe that it must be done on the basis of intellectual rigor, intellectual objectivity, intellectual, philosophical, cultural, political freedom of thought. you have to do it with a high view. i have no doubt that we are all capable of that at any given time. so, as far as i am concerned, i am at any rate prepared to see whether a better representation of the european parliament will not present too many disadvantages, such as too many people in the convention, and will not encounter similar demands. this would lead us to a number of representatives or agents in the convention who would be unfavourable to the good work of this convention. i have already had the opportunity, at the beginning of my speech, to express my views on the outcome and the usefulness of the convention. i think our proposal is in line with what parliament is proposing. consensual methods where possible, with the possibility, where necessary, of presenting options, for example by preferential order. however, we must avoid imposing the consensus method from the outset, because i think that would weaken the convention, which would then simply adopt the lowest common denominator. the possibility for the convention to present different options must make it possible to conduct a contradictory debate. i would like to review the various questions i have been asked about enlargement. i would like to respond to those who have spoken in a way that is not sceptical but clearly concerned. everyone is saying that they are in favour of enlargement, everyone is saying that it is an important political and historical act, but at the same time a number of people seem to be using arguments as if they had not heard what was being said, to express a number of reservations about enlargement. i want to be clear. we have always said that, firstly, we would try to keep up the pace of the negotiations with the exceptional pace of the swedish presidency, and secondly, we would do so judging each one on his own merits. the fact that we can now record that the interim results of these negotiations are particularly positive does not mean, of course, as some interventions do, that there is a kind of political laxity which would make us ready to accept ten countries before 2004 without any other form of verification, without any other form of judgment or criteria. of course not, and that is why we continue to say, with regard to enlargement: yes, it is irreversible, but yes, too, everyone must be judged on his own merits. that's for the enlargement. i think mr barón crespo has mentioned the bureau. he wanted the following presidencies to take part. i am not opposed to this at all, but we must avoid an imbalance. a compromise proposal could be that the next presidencies participate as observers. the convention may deal with any matter, including european security and defence policy. there are the four nice themes in relation to the convention, as we know. but since it was said that this convention was not the igc, that it was not going to decide, i do not understand why, in some cases, there seems to be a desire to limit at all costs the scope of the declination of the nice themes. if, in going to the end of the reflection on the nice themes, we go overboard on other issues, it would be quite worrying, for an operation which will involve the wider civil society in the debate, to say: 'we are going to restrict you to very specific themes, you can only debate the issues that we want you to debate'. it's a little short. we are rather in favour of a more optimistic, more broadly interpreted view of the four nice themes. i hope that the european parliament, at least the most optimistic of its members, will help us to convince people of this view and this approach. as regards mr cox's speech, i share the view, also expressed by mr poettering, that the commission must remain at the centre of the community system. the question of time is also important. the constraints are many, and the election deadlines are many. the time between the convention and the igc, in my view, should be six months. i think that we would risk giving time to unravel the acquis of the convention, the acquis of the debate, and the worst thing would be to find that after a long enough time, we arrive at the igc having forgotten, or having given time to some to pretend to forget, or having completely emptied of their substance, the options, and therefore the result of the work done usefully at the convention. that, ladies and gentlemen, is the gist of what i wanted to say. i am sure i have forgotten some things, but it is time to reply to the last speaker who asked me whether i was in favour of transparency in the council's work. i am of course in favour of transparency in the council's work. unfortunately, i am much more reluctant to create the conditions for a public gesture which would weaken the quality of the debate in the council. i am a seasoned parliamentarian, madam, i have been in parliament for over 20 years. i was also the leader of the opposition in my country for a long time, too long for my liking. even in parliament, for certain subjects, for certain matters, if we really want to take into account the general interest of the citizens, it is sometimes good to have closed-door debates, and not just when names or persons are mentioned. i think it would be unwise to throw away vital debates aimed at bringing together 15 heads of state or foreign ministers on extremely sensitive subjects. i am not at all opposed to public debate on a number of subjects, but to say that all councils should be organised and run in a public manner, i am not sure that would produce the results that you want, and that i want too. so, i say, transparency yes, propaganda, i'm much more reserved. as regards the way in which civil society was to be involved in the work of this convention, there were two formulae. the first formula was to create a second forum, a second institution, a second assembly. the first difficulty of this work was: on what basis should the members of this second assembly, which was to have the immense responsibility of embodying all of european civil society, be selected? it is extremely difficult to make a selection of who is the best spokesman for what. so we would have created a competing institution, alongside the convention, made up of people representative of the institutions. it was a choice, it was a first formula. the second formula we thought about is to work with what i'll call a structured network from civil society. we should ensure that this structured network is not limited, that all those who embody, all those who carry the voice of a certain part of the opinion can convey to the convention what they think, what their expectations, their criticisms, their proposals are, and that the convention can, if necessary, call them to hear them, that is to say, a dynamic exchange between the convention and everything that lives in european society, whether it is the academic world, the world of schools, the world of ngos, the world of associations. it's important to allow all these little channels to express themselves. we have opted for a structured network, with the understanding that everything these people produce will be part of the official documentation of the convention, and that everyone who will address the convention will receive an answer that will not simply be an acknowledgement of receipt. i think we're going to bring out at some point the most representative forces in our society. i am making this point so that there will be no misunderstanding.
commission. - madam president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the commission i would like to thank you for the quality and the volume of your speeches during this debate on the two major subjects which were brought together: governance and laeken. i am sorry, if you will, that president prodi had to leave us a few moments ago for an urgent meeting with the economic and social committee. on the governance side, let me emphasize the very first words of mrs kaufmann, whom i would like to thank again, after mr prodi, very sincerely for her availability and the quality of the work she has done on your behalf on this important and difficult subject. indeed, mrs kaufmann, you have said it very well: the debate on governance is part of the great debate on the future of the union. the question is not only why we are here - i will come back to that in a moment - but also how we are here, how we act. the commission, particularly in the white paper on governance, will promote the european parliament's co-legislative function. we propose to parliament, through this white paper, to be in a better position to exercise its prerogatives, and among those prerogatives are those which consist in better checking the quality of the choices of legislative instruments, those which consist in better checking the quality of the use of expertise - is it pluralistic? - the quality of the use of consultation - is it fair? i would like to be quite frank, but there is still a point of debate between us which mr swoboda emphasized in his speech earlier, as you said: we are not convinced of the benefits of a system which would allow the suspension of legislative acts at any time, the so-called call-back system, even though the commission's responsibility in the current comitology framework is not guaranteed. we have proposed that we should study together with you, with parliament and with the council other mechanisms which will enable the european parliament, in the matters now covered by codecision, to exercise its responsibility for control in a proportionate, that is to say balanced, way. but beyond this point of debate, ladies and gentlemen, on which we still have to work together, i would like to say that we regard this debate you have just had on the whole subject of governance as the way, after today's sitting, to go forward. i should like to say a few words about the laeken summit, on which we, like president prodi, have worked a lot. on laeken and after laeken, we will still have a lot of work to do. i have already said this to the committee on constitutional affairs, and i have also praised the quality of the work of your two rapporteurs, jo leinen and méndez de vigo. one of you, with his usual frankness, spoke very harshly about the commission, which is at the heart of the community model and method, and which intends to remain at the heart with this triple role of proposing, monitoring and implementing which has been assigned to it by the treaties and which, at the heart of the community model, with the reunification of the european continent, as disparities will increase and centrifugal forces will be more numerous, will be even more necessary than it has been for 50 years. mr voggenhuber said 'the commission has no vision'. i don't think he's here to hear my answer, but i'm gonna give it anyway. everyone is free to give this word "vision" the meaning he or she wants. i am rather used to the pessimism of reason and the optimism of will, and if i quote this fine phrase by jean monnet, it is simply to echo what minister michel said earlier, since it is stated that he confessed that he had somehow come here to find the means of a cure for optimism which was not given to him in other places. i would like to refer you to this beautiful phrase by jean monnet. in this house, on the subject of voluntarism, and this has been the common thread in many of your speeches, president prodi announced four strategic objectives. we want to stick to it, and he will have the opportunity to prove that he is sticking to it when he speaks in plenary on 11 december to present the state of the union. what would parliament have said if, even before the convention for which we fought together began, the commission had delivered its final vision of our constitutional treaty or our constitution by ignoring or preempting the democratic debate which is about to be born, for the first time, on such broad subjects. i am well aware of this, and i am saying this under the supervision of my colleague and friend vitorino, who worked very closely with you on the previous convention on fundamental rights; we are now dealing with more politically open, and probably more difficult, issues. the debate must take place. we will be taking part in it, but it was not our job to preempt it or to pretend that this debate did not matter. we should not underestimate the approach to governance and the white paper, but the intensity of your debate today proves that these are not trivial issues. before concluding, since i promised to be brief on this question of the laeken convention and especially the post-laeken one, i would like to express on behalf of the commission our gratitude to the belgian presidency, to guy verhofstadt and louis michel in particular, for the political will and courage they have shown, and which they will have to show during the few days that remain to us in laeken to convince us that the line of the draft declaration on which they have worked and which they propose to the member states will be respected, will not be diminished. i too heard louis michel use words i know well. i feel that with this convention and the time it will take for the first time in an institutional debate, we have time: two years, and we have an open method which is not reduced, as far as a reform of the treaty of the institutions themselves is concerned, to the sole dialogue of government ministers among themselves, in the secrecy and comfort of the sole intergovernmental method, the limits of which we have both seen, in amsterdam and nice. let us use this opportunity and make this convention the sounding board it should be for the top, for the institutions, for the governments that will ultimately have to decide, and for the citizens you represent. this convention - let us say it again to make things clear - will not take a decision. and since this point is very clear, then we must accept - i was very happy to hear minister michel say this too - that we should not take a frivolous or too closed view of the four points of nice. it is necessary, on the contrary, to read it with an open mind and constructively, to put these four points together and to deal with them with ambition. it is clear that this leads to a constitutional process. let's not be afraid of words. and to take an ambitious view of these four points, in particular the exercise of powers, the right tools for exercising the powers that are currently vested in us and the clarification of powers, naturally and logically leads us to ask ourselves questions about the european project. what do we want to do together? is that all we want ? some of them want to go back and tear up the community acquis? do we want to go further in integration, in the general interest of the citizens, on the third pillar, on foreign policy, on defence? these are the demands and appeals of the citizens. if we're gonna go further, do we want to go all together or do we want to go a few? how did you do that ? these are all questions which are at the heart of the matter, with these four indents, and the convention, which will not take a decision but must make strong proposals, will have to work. that is what i wanted to say and finally, i too think that those of us who are going to participate in this convention will have to be permeable and listen to what is said outside during that time. i am very attentive to the regional context in which much can be said and transmitted in a useful way. we will have to be open to the debate that will take place during all this time in civil society. the commission will not be a spectator during this whole period. it will have its own special place in this convention, as it will then participate in the intergovernmental conference and as the president of the commission will ultimately participate actively in the european council of the very last intergovernmental conference, at the latest at the beginning of 2004, before the european elections. next week we will vote on a communication, which i am working on with president prodi, on laeken and before laeken, and after the implementation of the laeken decisions. the commission will regularly propose and discuss contributions and communications on each of these subjects. i have heard group chairmen say or ask that. i can assure both president poettering and mr barón crespo or mr cox that the commission, not only mr barón crespo, on the question of simplification or powers, on all the other subjects, but first of all on the question of powers which directly concerns us, the commission will put on the table of the convention of contributors proposals to express a vision, but this vision, i wanted to say in a word, and we will confirm it next week in our communication, will, in any case, be to say that the model of the community method must be preserved, but also, after having preserved it, to renew it and to legitimise it.
on 15 november, i brought to your attention the plight of the plane spotters arrested in greece, amongst them my constituents lesley and paul coppin. that was two weeks ago and they are still in jail. last week i visited mrs coppin and she is very distressed. it may be that some of those arrested have been over enthusiastic in their activities and, technically, may have appeared to have broken greek law but others in the group, including mrs coppin, have done absolutely nothing wrong. there is no evidence against them and no foundation for holding them. these people have therefore been held in custody for almost three weeks on no justifiable basis. neither they nor their lawyer were present when evidence was originally presented to the investigating judge who took his arbitrary decisions in camera. for much of the time mrs coppin and the other detainees had no idea of the nature of the charges against them or how long they were likely to be kept in prison before their case was dealt with. this is disgraceful by any standards and a flagrant abuse of their civil and human rights. provisions under article 5 of the european convention on human rights, along with case-law, make clear that persons arrested within the european union must be brought promptly – and that means within seven days – before a judge who must free them immediately if no foundation for their detention exists. it must have been clear to the judge, by 16 november at the latest, that there was no evidence against many of the individuals and they should therefore have been released immediately. what we are now seeing is a charade of justice. i ask you, madam president, and the president of the council and the commission president, to take immediate action with the greek authorities to secure the urgent release of all the detainees from custody, particularly mrs coppin. this cannot be allowed to go on for another day.
early this afternoon the president felt she needed to cut short and postpone the opportunity for members to raise this matter. she felt she had to prioritise the debate on the future of europe. but the future of europe will be nothing if our people do not support us. this case is a perfect example of the impact on individuals of the quality or otherwise of european integration. parliament had a chance to show its relevance to people and missed it in prime time. our motion now clashes with the presidential debate where most of our colleagues are. i find it difficult to believe that after nearly three weeks it has been impossible to clarify, let alone hear, the charges against the 12 britons. i am also puzzled about the role the greek air force has reportedly had in reviewing the charges as opposed to an independent prosecutor. the defendants have not had an opportunity to challenge the evidence in open court and now the higher tribunal to which the case has been referred is to be held in secret. mr souladakis said earlier that the greek criminal justice authorities had respected all relevant rights. i am surprised that the european convention on human rights is so weak. we might need a europe-wide review with a view to reinforcing those standards and we certainly need that in parallel with the european arrest warrant. i call on the greek authorities to clarify the charges, release the defendants on bail and hold a trial in open court by friday of this week.
i would just like to underline that this is an issue that has the support of all parties in my own country. it concerns not just british citizens but also dutch citizens. it has massive public interest and raises questions at a time when we are proceeding in the field of justice and home affairs at european level on the basis of mutual recognition. that implies that we need to be confident that every country's legal system is up to scratch and meets the minimum standards set down in the european convention on human rights. it is important and i am glad you have announced that the president will take this up.
following on from the points of order made earlier today, i am grateful the president is going to raise the issue yet again with the greek authorities. i am speaking particularly about my constituent wayne groves from tamworth. he did not even possess a camera so i still do not know why he is being held in detention. he is sleeping on a floor with a thin mattress, as i understand are the other prisoners. he has been there for three weeks. why, when the magistrate said yesterday that there was no real evidence against them, are they still being held? i believe along with everybody else that this is in contravention of the european convention on human rights. if applicant countries have to say that will adhere to it before membership, surely current members should adhere to it now.
rapporteur. – madam president, it is a matter of regret and perhaps even of shame that it took the events of 11 september to push european governments into tackling effectively a problem which has plagued our continent for over a generation. in 1997 in amsterdam, and again in 1999 in tampere in finland, the heads of state and government committed themselves to tackling terrorism. our review of progress early this year showed that they had done nothing about it, which was why we as a parliament brought forward a report calling on them to take action. the events of 11 september have fortunately brought such action and i look forward to travelling to washington shortly to talk about common action between the european union and the united states of america. i would like to thank the political groups in this house for their cooperation in drawing up this report, particularly the members from spain. in my report, i broadly welcome the commission proposals for a council framework decision on combating terrorism and for a european arrest warrant. the amendments which i put forward seek to restrict the list of crimes defined as terrorist crimes and covered by the european arrest warrant to the most serious cross-border criminal offences, and if i may quote amendment no 16, it specifies those crimes "which aim to destroy the fundamental freedoms, democracy, respect for human rights, civil liberties and the rule of law on which our societies are based". we seek too to insert safeguards for civil liberties by basing action clearly on international human rights documents, by reinforcing the principle of ne bis in idem, by taking account of time spent in detention awaiting trial and by allowing member states refusal to extradite when there are manifestly sound reasons for doing so, including in those cases where a person found guilty could face a penalty of death. moreover, we seek to provide aids to victims of terrorism and their families. i shall ask the house to accept one amendment, which was submitted after the deadline and which takes account of the most recent developments in council. one member state is threatening to block progress towards a european arrest warrant. there is a method – not one which i recommend – but one which may be needed in extremis, in order to press ahead, and that is to invoke article 40 of the treaty allowing reinforced cooperation between a certain number of member states. terrorism is a supranational challenge and calls for a supranational response. we cannot allow the blockage of one member state to prevent common action in fighting it. when we met in this chamber, on 12 september, we had a debate in which i remember mr poettering and many others said that we were all americans. since then, we have discovered that we must first be europeans. we acknowledge that recognition of judicial judgements and judicial standards requires trust in each other's systems, but not blind trust, and for that reason i have put forward an amendment calling for urgent measures to improve judicial systems in our member states, to encourage benchmarking, to encourage exchange of best practice. the process of creating an area of freedom, security and justice is similar to that of creating the single market, but it is more urgent and, moreover, we are dealing not with the freedom of movement of goods, services or capital, but with the freedom of people. the greens and other political groups are saying, don't go ahead until you are sure that everybody's judicial standards are perfect. majority opinion, however, on the committee recognises that the scope of the challenge we face and the historical imperative are such that we must press ahead with these measures with prudence, and with vigilance, but also with determination. we must ensure effective action against terrorists and yet we must not deny legitimate political expression of grievances. i was surprised to read in el país this morning an interpretation of one amendment, which i support, that it would outlaw herri batasuna. i do not interpret the amendment in this way, nor would such an amendment be necessary to target those involved in supporting terrorist acts. other provisions in what we are proposing do that. i would say to colleagues, and particularly to our spanish colleagues, that in our determination to tackle terrorism, we must acknowledge that terrorists sometimes express political grievances, and that these require a political response. council is discussing the proposals put forward by the commission; parliament, which desperately needs powers of codecision, may be reconsulted on this matter. we are determined to assist governments in their work and yet maintain the delicate balance between the security needs of our citizens and preservation of their democratic freedoms. in this, cooperation in justice and home affairs has received quite a boost. whatever it was that we planned at amsterdam, the paradox is that events are what drives europe forward: just as mr haider's election led us to adopt effective legislation against racism and xenophobia, so it may be that mr bin laden has done much for european union integration. may i say, finally, what a pleasure it is to see you as a fellow liberal democrat in the chair in this session. i wish you a successful debate.
madam president, the argument that the anti-terrorism measures and the european arrest warrant do not skimp on fundamental rights, is only sustainable if the protection system of the european convention on human rights for defendants is adhered to in practice. but that is dependant on the ability of every single judge in the european union to understand and apply echr provisions. we have no coherent eu programme to ensure they do. lest i be thought chauvinist in raising the problem of britons in greece, let me criticise my own government in the uk. they are trying to put through an anti-terrorism bill with a derogation from the echr in order to detain suspects without a proper trial, with no legal representation, no judicial review and without being able to hear the evidence given by the intelligence services. this certainly leaves the uk lacking credibility in a campaign for mutual raising of standards in the eu. another worrying development in the uk is the intention to let police and security cooperation measures slip through the westminster parliament without proper democratic scrutiny. here we debate, but we have no equality with ministers in deciding the legislation. coupled with council secrecy, this means a very unsatisfactory position in terms of democracy, justice and human rights. finally, may i make a direct appeal to commissioner vitorino to ensure that organisations acting in the field of raising justice standards, such as the admirable fair trials abroad, can be assisted under the community budget.
i would like to use the brief speaking time i have to highlight the plight of the too-soon forgotten victims of terrorism. i sat in the home of one of my constituents the other day, a woman who lost her husband because he was a member of the army and had been killed by ira terrorists. when she came to get compensation for her three sons – just young boys – they offered her a paltry few hundred pounds for each son. i could go on and list a sad litany of how terrorist victims have been treated. this parliament should realise that these people need special treatment. the governments responsible should ensure that treatment is provided to bring some alleviation of the awful hurt and sorrow they bear.
rapporteur. – mr president, the tragic events of 11 september in the united states have given new impetus to the reinforcement of arrangements for aviation security. the european council meeting the day after the terrorist attacks on the usa instructed the transport council to evaluate the measures to be taken to improve aviation security and complete its consideration of those already proposed. the draft regulation itself was fairly straightforward and has been amended. however, the attached technical annex, document 30, based on the european civil aviation conference – or ecac – was found to be out of date. whilst parliament has responded speedily to the challenge, we believe that this should not lead to a lower level of parliamentary scrutiny and we reserve the right to amend in second reading the revised annex to this regulation adopted by the council in its common position. i have met with representatives from the council and commission and have consulted widely with the industry. due to the difficulty with the annex, as mentioned earlier, i chose to proceed with the report along the following lines: to work with the draft regulation and annex without amending the original annex as given to parliament but to reserve the right to a second reading after the council's common position has been adopted. this option accords with established procedures and ensures proper scrutiny. the draft regulation concerns, principally, access control and passenger luggage and freight screening on the ground at airports and is outlined fully in my explanatory statement. the scope does not extend to on-board security which may need to be addressed at some future date. the technical standards themselves are those adopted by ecac in 1992 in document 30, part 2, relating to security issues revised in january 2001 and, as mentioned, currently being updated. ecac membership extends to 38 european states including all eu member states. it is worth pointing out to parliament that this agreement reached by the 38 countries will set a precedent in so far as for the first time the agreement will have binding force upon its contracting parties. document 30 had previously been used for general guidance only. following on from the joint resolution which parliament adopted at the last plenary session on the subject of aviation, the key areas for amendment to this text are as follows: first, member states assume responsibility for additional security costs in the light of the terrorist attacks; second, inspections of airports should be unannounced if airports are to be inspected under real operating conditions; third, member states take responsibility in assisting employers in the screening of employees engaged in all security tasks, not least because employers are not always entitled to access personal data due to strict privacy laws; fourth, where there is a requirement for structural modifications at airports a six month time-limit will be implemented; and fifth, that a procedure be formulated, as is currently the case in ecac, that would allow industry access to the comitology committee without running into problems of existing legal structures. in addition, on a general point, we are calling for more effective international cooperation in the area of exchange of information for security purposes. to conclude, we are all aware of the catastrophic effects on the aviation industry and tourist sector as a result of 11 september. around 200 000 directly-related jobs have already been lost worldwide, 30 000 in the eu alone, and this is just the tip of the iceberg. it is not only big businesses which have been affected but also thousands of small businesses, such as small aviation clubs who produce the pilots of tomorrow. airlines, airports, manufacturers, hotels, the transport sector are all reliant on finding a solution to this problem. this report is not the sole solution but it is a step in the right direction provided that the member states recognise their moral duty to protect their citizens and accept their responsibility to assist in the financing of these additional security measures. it is quite clear that urgent action must be taken to restore public confidence which, in turn, would assist the aviation industry, the tourism sector and the european union as a whole.
i should like, first of all, to thank the two members for all their work in writing these reports. they have been tireless workers on fighting fraud in the european union since they were appointed. however, there is a problem. according to the commission report, there has been a doubling of fraud, in particular, of the revenue collected over the year 2000. that is of great concern but we must put it into context and remember that much of this is due to member states not taking fraud seriously. they are not collecting the money that is due to the european union, for example, from cigarette smuggling and the money that we could get through taxes. member states are also not taking fraud seriously because we still have four member states who have not ratified the convention on the protection of financial interests which means that nobody can move on in terms of fighting fraud. as regards the structural funds, 40% of the money is spent in the member states and the data we have, in terms of following up where that money is spent, is unreliable. this situation is quite pathetic. what do we do when we find fraud? we pass a file onto olaf who do the investigation and then it sits on a shelf because nobody prosecutes. this is a real problem. who is going to take responsibility for prosecution? only two people have ever been prosecuted by olaf and this is a green light to fraudsters in the eu. we must ask if people are against the european public prosecutor, then what alternative do they want to see? we are asking a little bit too much in this report by asking for a regulation. but we also know that about half the member states are against this and there is a possibility of losing an opportunity to have a european fraud prosecutor for the eu financial interests. we may be asking for too much too fast and i am concerned about that, but i respect the members for really trying to push the boat out on this fraud issue.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. – the industry committee accepts the desirability of moving to zero sulphur in petrol and diesel. the hotter burn of modern vehicle engines delivers higher efficiency and thereby cuts co2 emissions. however, the resulting increase in nitrogen oxide has to be dealt with by catalysts and the virtual elimination of sulphur renders the catalysts effective in dealing with these. a further benefit is a reduction in the emission of particulates, so the industry committee is in favour of the commission proposal. a majority vote in the committee demanded a rather faster implementation than the commission proposed even if some of us were concerned at the commission's assertion that this will, in fact, produce a net increase in co2 emissions. so please tell us, commissioner, if you stand by your warning or whether you can accept the quicker implementation requested by both the environment and the industry committees. we would also point out that the eu standard of 10 parts per million of sulphur contrasts with an american standard of 15 ppm of sulphur. this will make it difficult for us to import fuels from the usa in an emergency. we would also suggest that the commission instigate research into the implications of ultra-fine particle emissions from gasoline diesel injection engines. the question of fuel quality for non-road and off-road machinery is still outstanding. we understand that proposals on this matter will be forthcoming in 2002. this is surely urgently needed but we urge the commission to give full consideration to the interests of those in industry and agriculture who operate such machinery. we give this proposal a fair wind. indeed, the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy would suggest that the commission hoists a spinnaker and speeds up its implementation. is the commissioner prepared to accede to this demand?
mr president, often in this house, we adopt many resolutions and we say many fine words. now is a unique opportunity to influence the rights of those in egypt whose human rights are diminished. we need to influence and improve the way egypt operates in this field. we need to defer to give egypt, a friend of the eu, time for reflection. resolutions and words, albeit well-intentioned, seem to achieve little. here is an opportunity for action. september 11 should have taught us that we must apply the same principles to our friends, as to our enemies. egypt is a friend. we must give egypt the time to reflect, because if we diminish the rights of individuals living in those countries, ultimately, we diminish our own human rights. i urge the house to support the motion.
mr president, first of all, should we hurry to forge closer bonds with egypt, assuming that unanswered questions and miscarriages of justice will fade away and resolve themselves, before we have stopped and thoroughly examined what exactly is at the heart of the state i.e. the way it treats its citizens: the cases of fundamental human rights abuse, the 52 men put on trial for their homosexuality, for egypt wanting "to protect order and its national values", the conviction of 23 of these men, the repression of christians by islamic extremists which is allowed to go unpunished, the case of dr saad el-din ibrahim and other intellectuals imprisoned for having used funds that we, the european union, gave them. moreover, correspondence with the president of the people's assembly of egypt and the ambassador in brussels only seemed to underline egypt's complacency on this matter and eagerness to fudge and gloss over the issues. does parliament condone violations of the right to a fair trial, freedom of expression, and freedom of association whether it be social, political, religious or sexual? for that is what we are saying if we gloss over the human rights issue. we must send out an unequivocal message that such blatant abuses of fundamental human rights cannot, must not, and will not be tolerated by the european community.
i would like to inform commissioner patten that it was not the intention of the house this evening to reject the association agreement but to defer it. as to lectures in human rights, we all – regardless of our record – need to be lectured on human rights.
at the g8 summit held in july 2000 in okinawa, the rich industrialised g8 countries pledged substantial funds to fight communicable diseases and help the sick in poor countries. in september last year the commission held a conference on the subject in brussels but no action followed. four million of the poorest people died in one year. in july 2001 another meeting took place in genoa and mr prodi announced to the world's media a donation of eur 120 million. my report, unanimously approved on 4 october this year has been sitting on the shelf collecting dust. the council adopted a proposal for a legal basis for the fund to be implemented but so far not one euro has been given, and a further 2 million people have died. when terrorist bombs cause death the victims attract money very fast but the 3-4 million people who die from diseases are not in our minds. why does it take the commission so long to present a plan for implementation when they know that every day 10 000 people are dying? we promise with pride but we fail to deliver. do these people not matter to us? the commissioners have gone. there is no interest. look at the audience in this chamber, hardly anyone is here. that shows what priority the european union gives to such an important project. this is not fyrom or macedonia. this is aids affecting the poorest people in the world and it is about time that the eu contribution is not just eur 20 per person dying, not just 1% of what is required, but that it is eur 6 billion per annum.
we have often debated these problems in the past, but quite rightly do so again tonight: 36.1 million people are living with hiv/aids in this world, tuberculosis is making a tragic comeback, 300 million people suffer the debilitating and painful effects of malaria. if anything needed a visionary, innovative and international response, it is the prevalence of these communicable diseases. we want to support, in principle, this global fund to fight communicable diseases. we want to see it concentrate on prevention as well as treatment of all three diseases. we want an innovative and workable governance framework. we want a true international partnership so it is not just seen as donor business as usual. we want funding mechanisms that fast-track funds so that we can maintain the political commitment and mobilise further resources. these are difficult issues and i sympathise with the commission for the delays that have been forced on it in bringing forward this request for a legal base. but it should reflect also on why the second reading proposals on our own support through the poverty diseases line were cut back from parliament's demands, and why president prodi announced eur 60 million of support from the global health fund from the acp countries, which it was not his right to do and, as we heard in this chamber from their president-in-office they oppose. we must be concerned that this money actually adds to the global efforts and does not simply go into the pockets of the pharmaceutical companies. the amendments that we have constructively negotiated with the commission and council improve this proposal: the recognition that we need additional money, the fact that this is simply a first payment and the request to the commission both to bring forward a legal base for future contributions and to provide a report so that some of these information issues can be dealt with. i ask commissioner nielson if he can give us a time-scale as to when that might be brought forward during the course of next year so we can deal with it properly in the budget process.
i want to draw attention to the deteriorating situation in zimbabwe. we have seen president mugabe's wanton non-compliance with the undertakings given at the abuja summit on september and only last weekend the snub he delivered to the visiting eu troika. it seems time now to introduce smart sanctions against mugabe and his henchmen. this is what we called for in parliament's resolution and i would ask you to use your best offices now to bring that about.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to support mr fiori's report, which i think has struck the right balance. my views have changed in the course of the past year as a result of the evidence we have heard on the temporary committee. i have two basic concerns: firstly, much of the evidence suggests that developments on embryonic stem cell research may not deliver the results we all want in terms of progress on some of the most serious illnesses that afflict many members of our society and many of our own families; secondly, in the course of this research, we will allow people, and in particular, women suffering from infertility to be exploited. i am not against embryo research – as an infertility sufferer myself, i have benefited from it and i have donated surplus embryos for research purposes – but we need to be sure that to achieve the aims that we all want, we do not focus in one direction only, while neglecting other areas of research which hold equal if not more promise of success.
mr president, if europe is to be the most competitive and dynamic economy in the world, as proudly stated at the lisbon council, then we must provide the conditions and the environment which will encourage our scientists to test the frontiers of knowledge. we cannot hobble that search and yet we must also uphold the dignity of the human person. what is human dignity? what is the dignity of someone with parkinson's disease, alzheimer's disease, cystic fibrosis or quadriplegia resulting from spinal injury? yes, the embryo also is due dignity, but we have large numbers of supernumerary embryos resulting from in vitro fertilisation and these are usually frozen and ultimately destroyed. is it not better that these be made available for research purposes, with parental permission, rather than they be uselessly destroyed? it is vital that any such research in these sensitive areas be done under strict regulation and only in those countries where it is permitted and where there is adequate regulation. to my friends i would say, the good samaritan crossed the road and helped his neighbour: your neighbour may have parkinson's disease, or alzheimer's disease or spinal injury, or diabetes. with due respect, would you pass by on the other side? this report also touches on the issue of the patenting of biotechnological inventions, directive 98/44. this directive has passed through all the legislative processes necessary in the european union to make it law, commission, council and parliament. transposition, however, is years behind. it is surely up to the commission to insist with all the legal powers at its disposal on transposition in all the remaining countries. too often, in all these areas of advance, the commission and the member states use fine words and then dither and dally weakly while europe falls yet further behind. commissioner, please be robust. please stand up for the future of europe.
firstly, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur for the work that he and his staff did in producing what was a good report until we had that regrettable vote in committee which has unfortunately now produced a report which i personally cannot support. this debate on that report comes at a very opportune moment after american research companies announced that they had successfully cloned human embryos. it is quite clear that if we accept this report we will fall behind the rest of the world in the development of very important treatments for cancer, diabetes, parkinson's and alzheimer's disease. this debate does not impose any legal requirements upon member states but if the messages we send out today are heard strongly across europe, they will have serious implications for vital areas of medical research in the future. these proposals are restrictive and extreme. they do not reflect a sensible and balanced approach. if you look around member states, for example the united kingdom, we can see that a genuine lead has been taken to recognise the undoubted potential benefits of these technologies but also that there is the need for controls and proper licensing arrangements which reflect the very real ethical concerns. we should not, in my view, adopt these proposals as they stand because they are unrealistic, potentially damaging and will seriously harm medical research across the whole of the european union. the announcement in the united states this week has quite clearly demonstrated the speed at which research is now moving and the need to move technology and regulation on at the same pace. if these proposals become eu policy we will see the clock being turned back rather than being speeded up to keep pace with important technological developments.
rapporteur. – i should like to place an oral amendment in the last sentence of amendment no 6 and it should read : "... member states shall accept an equitable proportion of the costs of aviation security on the basis that security threats against aviation are a manifestation of threats against the state".
rapporteur. – there is an oral amendment which reads : "reserves the right to amend in second reading any annex to this regulation adopted by council in its common position if that annex, as submitted to council, has not been included in the commission proposal to the european parliament."
madam president, now that we have made all these changes, i am sure your services will tell you that the text has become rather incoherent in terms of the text and its intention. given the preparation of the commission green paper on the european public prosecutor, the run-up to the igc in 2004 and the fact that several committees of this house were not consulted, i would ask that this report be referred back to committee.
madam president, i would query your ruling that the two amendments are compatible. they are clearly addressing exactly the same issue using deliberately different language and i would have thought now that we have adopted amendment no 10, which i welcome, amendment no 23 is no longer necessary.
i join mrs flesch in complaining about the quality of translation. the english version of this amendment is completely different to the french original and largely incomprehensible. i do not want english-speaking people who look at this amendment to think for one second that i voted for that. i am prepared to vote for the french version and could i ask that you investigate the quality of translation on this report.
in writing. - the british conservative members of the european parliament understand the initiative of the bouwman report, but voted against amendments nos 13 and 14, as well as against other amendments. these amendments go far beyond the objectives which the commission had in mind when it first put forward this proposal, and there is no reason to suggest that the levels of protection in the original directive are inadequate. the removal of the ability of member states to set a higher level for unpaid wage claims to be guaranteed would go far beyond the objective of providing a minimum standard of protection to safeguard vulnerable workers. the extension to six months of the minimum period for unpaid wage claims to be guaranteed would also significantly increase public expenditure and goes far beyond the social objectives of the directive. we note that the british government also supports the conservative position, and we hope that on this occasion the labour members of parliament will also accept the instructions of their national government. i've asked for roll call votes to make sure.
i disagree with mr fatuzzo on the theato report because, as the european democratic wing of the epp, as the british conservatives are, we were completely against the theato report from start to finish. we felt that the initial proposal was amended out of sight by the rapporteur and she put in her proposal that the european public prosecutor would lead to corpus juris. it was mentioned many times that initially the european public prosecutor would be the first stage only to protect the community's financial interest which would then lead on to much greater things. madam president, even though you asked me to group together my roll-call votes – i was surprised you asked me in this particular report and not someone else in the fiori report. you will have noticed that the british conservatives actually managed to persuade a number of different delegations in this house to get a majority against some of the proposals. however, the whole report as it stood is still unacceptable.
i should like to give an explanation of vote on behalf of the british conservative group, the european democrat wing of the epp, and say why we oppose the regulation being extended to agricultural tractors. the primary reason for this directive is not to control atmospheric pollution itself as we inhale it but to actually reduce the effect that sulphur dioxide has on advanced catalytic systems. tractors are not fitted with these systems so it would be pointless to extend this regulation to tractors. it would result in more carbon dioxide being produced in the refineries and also a 10% increase in the price of fuel for farmers. so although we welcome this report as tabled we could not support the amendments on tractors and, therefore, as those amendments went through we voted against the report as a whole. i hope that the rapporteur, commission and council will take note of the fact that they were at least 70 votes short of a qualified majority for second reading.
in writing. - i voted against the report because of the persistent violations of human rights against homosexuals, intellectuals and religious minorities.
in writing. - the british conservatives voted in favour of the watson report to underline their continued support for the war on terrorism and to confirm our determination to ensure that the european union presents a united front against those who seek to attack our values and way of life. however, we have some reservations about certain details of this measure. we are particularly concerned that by including 22 offences in the scope of the arrest warrant, this measure goes beyond what is necessary in its desire to tackle the immediate terrorist threat.
i should like to agree with mr crowley's last couple of comments. the british conservatives, who form the european democratic wing of the ppe-de group, voted against the bösch report in total because, yet again, there is mention of the european public prosecutor and explicit comments to confer more extensive powers on it when set up, thus leading to corpus juris. it is quite amazing that this house, which is keen to see the european project go forward, is very casual about the way it looks at the legal system it is trying to create for the people of the european union. the european public prosecutor has many problems, not least those previously mentioned by mr crowley in another speech, because britain and ireland have completely different legal systems to the european continent. yet again the british conservatives voted with great pleasure against another report.
in writing. - the fiori report, even in its amended form, is a confusing and very unhelpful contribution to the public debate on stem cell research and other issues raised by developments in medical research. such decisions are primarily a matter for the member states, and the european parliament must respect subsidiarity. the united kingdom, for example, has conducted its debate on stem cell research quite correctly and has come to the conclusion that a strictly regulated research programme can ultimately be beneficial for people with severe disabilities and painful illnesses. the united kingdom has successfully transposed the patent directive, as all member states should have done, and the distinction between inventions and discoveries is very well understood. no revision or attempt to amend the directive is appropriate. for all these reasons, the members of the labour group in the european parliament voted against the fiori report.
madam president, this concerns the fiori report which we voted on in brussels last time. i have to say that this was parliament at its worst. we had a temporary committee which met for ten months to discuss an issue that could have been discussed within the existing committees. firstly, it was an abuse of the temporary committee status – parliament is very fortunate to have this privilege, and i do not think that we should abuse it, especially in the way it was abused with that vote and the final outcome. as chairman of the committee on budgets, i would dearly love to know the cost of that temporary committee for an outcome that had nothing at the end of it. i would hope that, if we have temporary committees in future, they will deal with subjects outside the normal committee structure. if we have enquiries in the future, let us try to carry them out within the budget and not give rise to excess expenditure. (applause)
madam president, on wednesday's draft agenda there is a joint debate on the middle east at 3 p.m. it might be helpful for colleagues if in advance of that debate, in which there will be a great deal of interest, parliament's services would consider reprinting copies of the joint address to this house by the speaker of the knesset and the speaker of the palestinian legislative council. the message delivered on that occasion might shed some light in our current darkness.
i wish to make a point of order to draw the attention of this house to the grave discourtesy and disrespect shown to it by a member of the belgian presidency. i refer to mrs magda aelvoet, minister for consumer protection, public health and the environment in the federal parliament of belgium. i wrote to mrs aelvoet on 13 june 2001 – and that letter was signed by 20 members of this house – requesting a meeting with her to raise the question of the fraudulent importation of cat and dog fur products into the eu from asia and china. we received no reply to that letter. i wrote again on 12 july 2001 and received no reply. mrs alvoet came here to strasbourg on 12 september 2001 to address an intergroup meeting on animal welfare. i raised this issue with her: she said that she had written to me and had extended an invitation to the meps who had signed the letter with me to come and meet her in brussels. when i returned to brussels, there was no sign of this letter. i wrote for a third time to mrs aelvoet requesting the letter and have received no reply. three times i have followed up with telephone calls and again received no reply. i find this a grave discourtesy to the members of this house who signed that letter and i also find it astonishing that a minister in the eu presidency should come before a packed meeting of an intergroup and say that she has written to me when she knew full well that this was a lie and no letter had been sent. i hope, therefore, madam president that you will confirm, on behalf of this house, that this sort of behaviour by a minister in the presidency is gravely discourteous and not going to be tolerated in future. (applause)
madam president, like mr stevenson i want to raise a point of order with regard to a matter of discourtesy to this house. some months ago i wrote to the president of the commission asking a formal written question, as i am entitled to do as a member. i received a reply which said: 'the research needed in order to provide a detailed response would be out of all proportion to the result desired and exceed the requirements of a response to a written question.' that is a gross discourtesy to any member asking a question of a body, which is supposed to be, there to serve and to be transparent in response to requests for information. if that were the sort of response a minister in the british government gave to a member of the british house of commons, he would deservedly be pilloried in that house. i expect better from the president of the commission. i wish to say, on behalf of this house, that when a member asks a perfectly legitimate question i expect that question to be answered to the fullest extent. we should not just be given an excuse and some sort of non-answer. i would like to remind the president of the commission of his pledges to provide transparency and openness in terms of information to this house.
i certainly share the concern that enrique barón crespo has raised at the failure of the justice and home affairs ministers to reach agreement on the proposal for a european arrest warrant. i note, however that, in addition to mr verhofstadt's planned visit to rome, there will be an extraordinary meeting of the justice and home affairs ministers on thursday of this week. it must be hoped that agreement can be reached on that occasion. the house anticipated that an agreement might not be reached and recommended at least consideration of the use of article 40 of the treaty which would allow a number of countries to proceed on the basis of reinforced cooperation. nobody wants that solution; it must be hoped that we can reach agreement between 15, but, one country must not be allowed to hold up progress in the fight against terrorism called for by the heads of state and government in ghent. (applause from the left and the centre)
madam president, at the last part-session in brussels you very kindly said that you would write to the greek authorities about the 12 british and two dutch plane spotters who were arrested. i was wondering whether you have had any reply to that letter. my constituent wayne groves is still in prison after nearly five weeks with no charge and no trial. i believe it is against the european convention on human rights. i should like to know whether there is anything further you can do on their behalf and whether you have had that reply.
madam president, i would like to endorse the point made by mrs lynne. today is human rights day and yet there are 12 european citizens in prison in greece without trial. members opposite have been raising the issue of the european arrest warrant – this incident shows precisely why members on this side of the house have concerns about a european arrest warrant. british citizens engaged in the harmless pursuit of plane-spotting find themselves in prison in greece without trial. i really look forward to seeing the reply you have received, which you described as unsatisfactory, and hope you will respond in very robust terms to the greek government. they must not be allowed to keep european citizens in prison without trial.
i should like to thank you, madam president, for writing a letter to the greek authorities about the plane spotters, and for what you said today. it is particularly important that you do this on behalf of the whole european parliament and as you represent a member state that is not involved on either side. you said you would reflect on further action you would take. could i ask when you will report back to the plenary on that? i should also like to thank mr souladakis for what he said. i believe that there is a common understanding here of the necessity to observe human rights and of the need for cooperation between our two states in the european union, as well as for respect for the independence of the judiciary. through you, madam president, perhaps i can appeal to all the greek members of this house to see whether we can produce some form of joint statement in support of those principles which might advance understanding and lead to a quicker resolution of this issue for the 12 individuals involved.
madam president, this point may be of some interest to the house. honourable members may recall voting in the mini-part-session on the foster report on common rules in the field of civil aviation security. this report had to be brought forward very quickly in the light of the events of 11 september. we were then awaiting the response from the transport council meeting last friday and everyone hoped that a common position would be reached. i should like to inform the house that the transport council and member states did not reach a common position, despite urgent appeals from all sides on the desperate need for these measures and despite the fact that this parliament had bent over backwards to do its very best in a very short period of time. the behaviour of the member states and the council in all of this has been quite appalling. this is probably one of the most important measures that has come through since 11 september and it would have affected 38 european countries. i will keep this house informed as to progress but i would like you, madam president, to pass on our comments to the presidency.
madam president, ten years ago this week, our sakharov prize winner, aung san suu kyi, was awarded the nobel peace prize. this saturday, all living laureates will go to oslo to commemorate 100 years of the nobel peace prize – she will not be there. she has been kept under house arrest since september 2000 and has not been allowed to move about freely for 13 years. will you please, madam president, send her a message of support from this parliament and also urge the norwegian nobel institute to express their deep concern about the fact that she is not able to join them on saturday in oslo. would you also ask the nobel institute to urge the military junta in rangoon, burma, to give aung san suu kyi her freedom forthwith. (applause)
rapporteur. – madam president, today's debate is the culmination of a long process which began in the days of the bse epidemic. it is in a sense a proposal that comes as much from this house as from the other institutions of the european union because our two temporary committees of inquiry culminated in the recommendation that there should be a body of this kind. one commission fell, another came into office accepting that something of this sort should happen and it is that proposal from president prodi, driven forward by the commissioner, which we are dealing with today. it is, therefore, the work of many hands and if this debate today is considered, calm and, i hope, rational it is because of the extent to which the three sides in the triangle of forces have attempted to come to an agreed conclusion by the time of this second reading debate, in order to expedite the introduction of the new authority itself. there should not be any undue delay. if we can avoid the conciliation stage, we will do so. there are still perhaps a few reservations which i shall refer to in a moment, but we have come to a point where we believe we have a consensus in this house. we certainly have a majority in this house and i should like to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs of the other political groups, particularly mr bowis, mrs paulsen and mr staes for the work they have done right through since the original white paper. i would also like to thank my own researcher, michelle smythe, and everyone from the commission and the council, under both the swedish and belgian presidencies, who have brought this forward. since mrs aelvoet has taken a bit of a pounding today i shall pay tribute to her part in it also. we have now agreed on a timetable to get the new authority up and running. to do that there is a series of specific compromises: 16 new amendments which broadly find favour with the commission – i hope mr byrne will be able to indicate that – and the council. firstly, we had to adopt an unusual procedure for one point that remains in some doubt, that is, the site of the new authority. we wanted to set out criteria for the site of the new authority as we believe we should. the council, however, were not prepared to accept them in the body of the text. but you do not throw away the whole report for that: we have put it into the legislative resolution and we hope that you, madam president, will be able to set out exactly what our reasoning is. the decision will have to be made on merit and not through the kind of political horsetrading that is currently being whispered about. it would be the worst possible start if this body were sited in an inappropriate place for the worst of reasons. we tabled the compromise amendments in order to bring forward the major priorities that this parliament has always emphasised: firstly, a parliamentary hearing for the proposed executive director of the new authority and a three-month period for parliament to express its opinion on the candidates for a small and tightly-focused management board. that is the board that will meet in public and will make its opinions equally public so the citizens of europe can see what it recommends. it will have a role to play in risk analysis, risk communication and risk management, where its advice is appropriate. these are substantial powers. in addition, this legislation gives protection to those who want to report on unsafe practices in the food and feed business. citizens have a duty to tell the truth and i believe we have guaranteed that. if the 16 compromise amendments, and the others already agreed with the presidency, are passed, we can proceed to set up the new efsa. the problem of bse, for example, is still with us: cases of it have been notified in two previously clear member states this week. everybody knows that food and animal feed have to be safer. the procedures whereby such products come in and out of the european union have to be open, transparent and, above all, safe. some of the practices of industrialised farming have threatened us all. producers and consumers alike have everything to gain from a monitoring authority which protects the interests of all and is beholden to none. on that basis i commend this proposal to the house.
we have come quite a journey since the commission produced its first white paper. at that time i had the privilege of writing the report for parliament with my friend across the floor – mr whitehead – acting as shadow. now i am reciprocating as shadow for his report. my party is not a great party for harmonisation but we are a party for harmony and that is what we have seen in this report and the way it has been dealt with. i too wish to play tribute to the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, also the commissioner, mr david byrne, and – dare i say it in the light of earlier comments –to magda aelvoet, the minister. i hope ms mckenna will not take offence if i give her praise in her absence as she too has played her part in looking for and helping us to find compromises which make sense, which do not betray anybody and which take forward the concept of food safety for the peoples of europe. this is an issue which is of considerable importance to people. there is nothing more important than the safety of the food and the drink that they and their families partake of. there is a european dimension to this because, increasingly, not only does food cross boundaries but people cross boundaries. so we need to be certain that the food we eat has been grown in soil we can trust and the fertilisers added to it are known to be safe. the feed that is given to livestock also plays its part in ensuring that the food that ends up in our supermarkets and on our tables merits our confidence. then we want to make sure that the processing of food is safe and, finally, we want to make sure that when it is stored and retailed, it is still safe for us to take home. then of course it is up to us. there are many critical issues in this report – the title of the food safety authority has been crucial to us. we do not want to see an all-singing, all-dancing bureaucracy – we want an authority which is focused on safety, on the assessment of risk, on giving guidance where appropriate to the managers of risk. an authority that understands that risk can never be eliminated but it can be adequately spotted and dealt with. science is crucial, so is independence – that is why the siting of this authority is important. the pre-conciliation process – if i can call it that – that we have been going through is an example of how to take measures through parliament and the institutions. at this last stage parliament has spoken overwhelmingly with one voice. i know the commission and the council have listened and i believe they will have benefited because we are working together on this measure.
let me start by saying that i am all for food and animal feed safety, but i cannot understand why the european union believes that it is necessary to establish the european food safety authority. i believe i am right in saying that almost all major diseases, except possibly bse, come from countries outside the european union. therefore the world health organisation, which is already in existence and is doing just such work, should be adequate for this purpose and can protect all of our interests. this organisation serves 27 of the countries of europe including the countries of the european union. it strikes me that the european union is creating a further quango which, like most authorities the eu sets up, will be expensive to run and turn out to be a white elephant. if such a need did exist, surely it should be the work of each national government to look at the appropriate problems. these would be pertinent to the conditions of that country and they can act accordingly.
rapporteur. – mr president, in the concluding part of this package of directives, the universal service and users' rights directive, for which i have been privileged to be rapporteur, are very much at the cutting edge of the whole package. these are things that will really mean something to all consumers and users of electronic communication services. the common position that we received from the council was a major advance over the first reading text and i would like to thank the council and commission for accepting so many of parliament's ideas and suggestions. the new text has been substantially restructured and clarified which is important for effective transposal in member states. as part of that restructuring, the aspects of market intervention contained in this directive – and this is very strong market intervention at a retail price level – are clearly set out. it is worth reminding all of us in this house that these are very much seen as transitional measures towards a fully open market in which competition rules will reign supreme. that is the direction we want to move in. i would like to pick up on some further enhancements that we have made as a result of the second reading. i would like to thank the council for working so closely with us and also to thank my colleagues on the legal affairs committee who worked very closely with me in making suggestions. i hope that they will be pleased with the results that we have achieved. it is worth reminding ourselves that the whole essence of this universal service directive is to ensure that a core service is available to both able-bodied and disabled consumers across the single market, and also that the users' rights provisions must ensure that consumers have a right to clear contract terms, to comprehensive transparent pricing information and also a guarantee of other important services. the changes that we have particularly focused on at second reading concern some further important enhancements to the provision for disabled users. i am pleased to say that at the common position stage, we have a clear indication in a separate article about the importance of member states providing for disabled users on a wide range of services, in particular ensuring that disabled users have the sort of choice and range of services that all other consumers expect. those are broad-ranging provisions that will develop as services expand. the new area – that i am pleased we have introduced, and i would like to thank the council for accepting this – is to encourage the development of clear quality standards related to disabled user provision. that is something that we have added in at this stage because it seemed to us that it was all very well having some common provisions but unless we have a way of monitoring those and making sure that those evolve with the rest of the range of services involved, then things might just stand still. we will not see disabled users being able to take advantage of new technology and new services in the way we would like them to. this is a very important provision which i am sure will have the support of all colleagues. the second area that we focused on in second reading was to ensure that small- and medium-sized enterprises also benefit from the sort of users' rights that are required for individual consumers. in a rapidly developing world, we already know that small- and medium-sized enterprises are a key target for enhanced electronic communications. we want smes to really buy into e-commerce, into the new possibilities afforded to them by enhanced electronic communications. they do not necessarily have the negotiating power of larger companies and therefore provision is made for them. in conclusion, i wish to talk about a third aspect which has involved us in a lot of tough negotiation with the council, namely over "must carry" obligations which are included within this directive. these allow member states to impose obligations to carry public service channels and channels of specific interest on electronic communication systems. many colleagues felt that there should be a specific extension of this to satellite and conditional access systems. the council and commission have told us that this is already covered fully in the access and interconnection directive, but colleagues have not agreed with that. when it comes to the compromise package that we will vote on i am prepared to recommend to colleagues that we do not support this area but on condition that the commission assures us that it will continue to keep this under very close scrutiny when it comes to looking at the television without frontiers directive and also to encourage the fair access provisions. if we do that, i am sure that we can move forward to approve the whole package in what will be a major advance for the european economy and for europe's competitiveness.
mr president, the importance of the package as a whole is clear, both for a major european industry and for its customers and users. but are we moving fast enough to keep up with a changing market? i would like to congratulate colleagues, especially the ppe-ed team, for getting to this point where much of parliament's position has been taken on board in the council text. i particularly welcome progress on article 4 of the framework directive so that the principle of appeals against nra decisions on the substance of an issue, not just on whether procedure has been followed correctly, has been accepted. this gives some comfort to operators and provides a more balanced situation. i also welcome moves improving article 6 of that directive so as to achieve a more even regulatory framework across member states through the requirement for cooperation and coordination between nras and the commission. personally, i prefer the voluntary approach to adopting common standards in digital television technology rather than seeking to impose one solution. i say, let the market provide the answer. the package, as now formulated, seems a big improvement on the original proposal but we are still looking for consumers' concern about levels of competition and service to be addressed through faster transition to a true internal market governed by general competition rules.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr harbour, for the cooperative and pragmatic way in which he has worked on the universal services directive. in particular, his efforts to achieve a consensus have led to the socialist group's amendments – both to strengthen the 'must carry' provisions and to give stronger rights of access to disabled users – being carried in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. the fast pace of technological change in the telecoms sector means that legislation must keep up with the pace of developments. but it must reflect growing expectations of users and consumers for a minimum set of services at an affordable price, guaranteeing access for all. the telecoms revolution has created a rise in consumer expectations. it is our job to respond and ensure that our legislative framework in the eu can deliver competition and consumer benefits. consumers, for example, have not benefited from the existence of multiple competitors in the mobile phone market. tariffs have not fallen in line with lower costs of running networks, now prompting in the uk an oftel inquiry and a european commission investigation. this directive must ensure genuine universal access and extend to all users, especially those with special social needs, those on low incomes and those with disabilities. the disabled will be excluded from the opportunities if there are not sufficient guarantees of access across europe to public payphones, directory services and electronic programme options. in my country alone, two million blind and partially-sighted people could benefit from this directive if the council and the commission accept our amendments. finally, on 'must carry' provisions, we need to find a means to allow services and channels in the public interest to be carried on cable and satellite platforms. if we do not, then i fear the future of satellite television might be dominated by the tv culture of quiz shows featuring stripping housewives, squeezing out educational and public interest programmes. let us be clear: amendment no 26 does not promote a free ride for public broadcasters on conditional access services nor indeed on imposing or mandating this. the fact is that market conditions do not always provide 'must carry'. it is appropriate to allow member states to intervene if and when it is appropriate to do so. i trust the commission and the council will see the merits of supporting this. we favour a quick deal but it is conditional on the council and the commission accepting our amendments, which are a genuine and committed attempt to ensure that the brave new world of electronic communications is genuinely universal.
mr president, it seems to me that the outcome is a vindication of the community method. much of the process was kick-started and propelled by the declarations at the lisbon summit, but nothing would have happened if those declaratory statements had not been turned into excellent and workable proposals by the commission. they were then propelled forward by some superb cross-party work by rapporteurs in this parliament and fixed as a result of innovative negotiating skills on the part of the belgian presidency and from mr daems – who contrived to include a gastronomic tour of brussels in his valiant efforts to secure consensus. this combination was successful in dragging member states and national regulatory authorities – some of them kicking and screaming – towards a workable pan-european approach. that seems to me to offer some lessons for the barcelona summit next year: if we want to push forward the economic reform agenda in this sector and in others, we need to continue to rely on the tried and tested community method and not resort to the intergovernmentalism that frankly was implicit in much of what the council seemed to suggest in the negotiation positions it took on this package.
mr president, i very much hope that even at this very late stage, right up to the wire, we can achieve a compromise on this package between the three institutions. others have mentioned the conclusions of the lisbon summit but there are other needs for a conclusion: the needs of industry for early clarity about the new rules, the need of european citizens for cheap, efficient competitive telecommunication services, the needs of european union businesses for education, for research, for societal applications. i particularly want to ask about the rights of disabled users and to put a specific question to the commission on the compromise presidency text. it is important, not just for social reasons, but for access to employment for disabled users. i would like to ask commissioner liikanen whether in his view the presidency compromise encompasses those points of principle contained in both the framework directive and the universal service directive. there have been serious criticisms by disabled users about non-implementation of the rtte directive and this is a crucial point for many of us. parliament has rightly supported carefully delineated powers for the commission and understands also that some qualification is essential. there is a need for clear rules consistently applied within national regulatory authorities and between regulatory authorities. the powers for the commission need to be circumscribed and time-limited, as indeed they were in parliament's amendments and in the presidency compromise. i very much hope that when we vote on wednesday we will have reached an agreement between the political groups and between the three institutions.
these reports will play a critical role, not just in shaping the future of telecoms but also in ensuring a greater choice in competition in the european market. even more importantly, i hope they will go some way, in our drive for the knowledge-based society, towards lessening the divide there is between those who have access to information technology and those who do not. i am speaking on the access and interconnection directive which is extended to provide a pro-competitive and harmonised framework to stimulate competing network infrastructures and interoperability of services. i hope it will ensure that bottlenecks in the market do not constrain the emergence and growth of innovative services, especially for people with disabilities and services that will benefit users and consumers. to achieve these ambitious objectives, we first need to influence the way in which member states regulate access and interconnection and secondly we need operators with smp to grant other network operators interconnection facilities in a transparent way. an area where we have had problems and where the harmonised approach between members has been difficult to obtain under the current framework is international roaming and call termination in mobile networks. i know that this directive may not be the place for such detailed information, however, in the absence of any movement from the operators, i believe it is important for us to highlight this issue. the fact is the cost of terminating calls in mobile networks is ten times as much as terminating in fixed networks. i can appreciate some of the problems in the international roaming, but the differences are too wide to be credible in terms of actual costs incurred and there is a huge spread of prices across europe for the same service. the most expensive country is almost twice as expensive as the cheapest. i want to try to ensure, when we are looking at a level playing field and a single market, that the retail prices are cost-based and transparent and are of benefit to the consumer especially the smes who are trying to gain access across europe and take advantage of the single market. i hope the commission will have greater success than they had in implementing the local-loop directive across the fifteen member states, because this directive needs to be implemented forthwith because lower prices, wider choice and better services are an absolute priority for the eu if we are to achieve a more socially-inclusive europe and a one-speed europe.
rapporteur. – this is parliament's second report on the growth and employment initiative which is a multiannual programme. but it is also, perhaps unusually, the second one this calendar year and the reason for this is that the 1999 report was delayed until january of this year in essence because the commission had been somewhat sluggish – a point i recollect i observed in my speech in january. this year, i am delighted to say that the commission has produced a very thorough and generally much better report and i would like to thank them for the cooperation they have shown. ironically, the timing has been more of a problem this time around with parliament and that is partly because the industry committee decided that it wanted to produce an opinion and wrote to the employment and social affairs committee and asked if the vote in committee could be deferred. the vote was deferred and then the committee on industry decided it did not want to produce an opinion after all. but these things happen. anyway, i would like to thank colleagues in the employment and social affairs committee for their amendments which have generally improved the report substantially. i would like to thank the economic committee for their opinion which the committee fully supported and which is utterly embraced within the body of the report, and i would also like to thank the employment and social affairs committee for adopting this report unanimously a few weeks ago. parliament clearly hopes that its views as expressed in this report when voted on tomorrow will be of genuine help to the commission and the eif in determining any programme changes for the coming year, in which case the report each year needs to be presented annually in good time well ahead of the year to come so that it can influence what happens in the year to come. the challenge for everybody in the year 2002 is therefore to present the report in the november plenary rather than in the december plenary. the commission can help, as i hope they will, by speeding up the inter-service consultation which still seems to be a rather dozy process. i have it on good authority that the commission's own report rested in certain dgs in-trays for several weeks before being lifted out so progress can be made there. it can also help by sharing with parliament the quarterly information from the eif and i thank the commission for agreeing publicly in the employment committee to do this. this will be very helpful, but parliament can certainly help in sharpening up its own act in terms of getting the timetable much sprucer next time around. meanwhile, i would just like to highlight three points from the report: paragraph 13 where we would like to see in next year the commission report much more concrete evidence of the employment gains that this multiannual programme has produced, not because we doubt what those employment gains might be, but we would like to see some hard data next time around. on paragraph 14, there are a number of references to other stages in the development of smes in their business cycle. we would like attention to be paid to this too. finally, to go back to the earlier part of the report, in recital f, where a deliberate comparison is made with the united states, because there, less regulation allows for a much more entrepreneurial spirit. in the eu we believe that we have to get a much more similar mindset to america in the way in which we approach smes. i note with great interest the minutes of the industry council meeting on 4 and 5 december, which proudly proclaimed real progress under the belgian presidency towards "better practices geared towards elimination of red tape". if this is true it is most welcome. i want to believe it. i would love to see the evidence. certainly we all have to do our best to make it true. smes currently account for two-thirds of all workers – the majority of all workers employed in the european union. but european employment laws are substantially shaped by the social partners who represent the big employers and the big trade unions but the minority of the workers. we all need to recognise that smes are the biggest employers overall, that smes are the biggest engine of growth for the european economies. it is not enough just to say that we have looked after smes, that we have the employment and growth initiative. it is a great help but we have to do much more.
mr president, on behalf of the verts/ale group i welcome the report and i congratulate the rapporteur. i agree with the criticisms made of the commission's report and many of the points made in relation to support that smes need, both by the rapporteur and by other speakers here tonight. but the report does not deal adequately with the crucial issue of whether jobs were actually created by these financial instruments. the amendment by my group makes explicit reference to this. the stated intention of the sme guarantee facility is to stimulate job creation by supporting the investment activities of smes within the eu through increased availability of loan finance. the estimate for job creation is an average 1.3 new jobs per sme over 2 years which is described as substantial. but we do not have a cost/benefit analysis and enough concrete information. i would ask colleagues to support this report but also to support the amendment which makes this point clear.
madam president, last night the committee on budgets and, i understand, the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy discussed this matter. there is no problem with urgency being granted and we can do it without report and without debate.
colleagues will recall that we dealt with this matter in urgent procedure in october. i am pleased to be able to report that the council has now accepted the legal base that was being proposed. however, we would contest the fact that neither of the two appendices is attached to the proposal, although we understand the reasons why. nonetheless, we discussed this in committee last night and we recognise the urgency. we would propose an urgent procedure without report. it would then be up to the political groups to put forward amendments, which might be similar to those we adopted in october.
mr president, although i agree with many of the comments that have been made today about the year 2001 having been reasonably successful, there are real grounds for concern about the way in which this debate is taking place today. firstly, as a matter of principle, we have the institutional agreement of 1993, which says that the programme should be presented by october, and then our agreement of 2000, under which we are to have a broad debate about the programme before it is implemented. neither of these have been fulfilled in this particular case. why is this totally insufficient? firstly, the programme which is presented to us lacks focus. it is somewhat difficult to see priorities when you have seven of them and, within the priorities, lots of themes which are generating new ideas. if you have more than three priorities, as bob zoellick, the ustr, said, you lose yourself in detail and you can never focus on what is really important. secondly, we have a lack of detail. i understand that we now have a legislative programme sent by e-mail, but parliament has not been associated with this and it seems, as other speakers have said, that we had a legislative programme which was not implemented this year. mr barón crespo is right that we did not want it. we wanted a political programme and legislative programme and parliament to be associated with that. thirdly, there is a lack of coordination: not just coordination among ourselves but with the national parliaments. as mrs kaufmann said: how is it possible to establish a programme for the european union if not all the actors who are concerned at political level are associated with it? this leads me to say that we were better off with president santer. we were better off with the last commission as regards the way in which the programme is presented. at least we had a programme in its outline and there was a real effort to try to get institutional priorities, and we had a legislative programme with details, which we could see in front of us. my conclusion today is that the commission is there to propose. it has the right of initiative but it is not the european government. it cannot come to us and say this is what the european union's programme is going to be and expect us simply to accept everything that is in its documents. do you not agree, mr president, that it would be better for the success of the european union if we were to go back to presentation of the proposals of the legislative programme in october? we would then be able to discuss, debate, consult on and conclude a programme which the union could put forward for the year ahead. if you have all of us with you, you will be better off than if we have interinstitutional wars, which you seem to have started this morning.
president prodi stated that he was attached to interinstitutional cooperation and full transparency. i, of course, welcome such a statement: it is essential for this process to work. but you have to start by respecting the procedures that are agreed already, that are known and that are laid down in writing. i have here the framework agreement between parliament and the commission agreed just two years ago. i also have rule 57 of our rules of procedure which lays down how we deal with the annual legislative programme and reflects the agreements that have been entered into in the past with the commission. that rule states that the commission shall present its annual legislative programme in october. of course, we know that there can be delays, that has happened before. but it specifies that this annual legislative programme must refer to all proposals of a legislative nature and every act included in the programme must indicate the legal basis and the timetable envisaged for its adoption. on these points, what we have had before us this week fails to respect our rules of procedure and existing agreements reached between the two institutions. the one positive innovation is that rule 57(6) has for the first time been implemented with the statement made by the president-in-office which i like others welcome. in fact we have a work programme, a work programme – not a legislative programme – outlining priorities. to outline priorities is fine and the priorities chosen are good ones – perhaps obvious ones, but nevertheless the right ones. but we need the detail, we need the detail that is required in our rules of procedure and in the framework agreement. we need it for our committees to be able to get to work and plan their work and appoint rapporteurs who can work with the commission in the pre-legislative phase. it is in the commission's interest as well as in our own interest. i understand that we are now receiving the detail by e-mail, but even that, as far as i can see, fails to mention the legal basis and the timetable of each proposal. general debates are all very well on broad priorities, but we have that several times a year when the commission presents its programme, when each presidency presents its programme, and we tend to have that sort of debate surrounding each european council meeting as well. what we are supposed to get there is the nitty-gritty detail as well. president prodi is right to say that the procedure needs improving, but we have a procedure to negotiate such improvements, the malmström report in our committee for example. mrs malmström is already in dialogue with the commission on that and, frankly, we should have waited for the outcome of that before changing procedure. the president of the commission cannot unilaterally take existing agreements and tear them up. new procedures must be agreed by both institutions.
president of the commission. - mr president, madam president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, i think this debate is useful and enlightening. the commission has taken note of some very specific messages, because we have the same objectives and there is a harmonious alliance between parliament and the commission. there may have been times when we didn't hone the tools to achieve this, this harmonious alliance, but we worked extremely well. i would like to say a few things about that. i can assure you that the commission has explicitly committed itself to working with parliament. i think that the president has never been so present in plenary sessions and, when called, in all committee meetings, of committee chairmen. each commissioner appears on average seven times a year before the relevant parliamentary committee to discuss political issues relating to his or her function, portfolio or portfolio. 80% of the dossiers are dealt with in plenary by the commissioner responsible; a record number of confidential documents were sent to parliament; we have so far answered more than 3 000 parliamentary questions and 200 petitions involving the ombudsman each year. we are therefore really trying very hard to honour this commitment to a serious relationship with parliament. there are certainly shortcomings, there are problems, and it is precisely to remedy the shortcomings of the past that we have changed the way we work. today i hear - and i appreciate the significance of this - that the political programme is not enough: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have some difficulties in doing this, and when we realised that this was the message, even though there was a technical delay, we took immediate action because we had the legislative programme. but we know that the strong point of the relationship with parliament is the political programme: that's what we need to work on together. it says: we don't start in february and end in november without having a continuous relationship between us. well, i agree with that as well. what i am asking, however, is that we can have working schedules with the committee chairmen well in advance: i can assure you that the few times that a meeting could not be arranged, it was because there were absolutely essential commitments. but if we work together to make this calendar, i think we can come to these conclusions. having said that, i should like to turn briefly to the question of the role of the commission, of the future convention, starting with what would seem to be a side issue but which i consider to be very important: we must therefore join the council in the secretariat of the convention. this will be a moment of great significance. the convention, of course, does not decide anything on its own, but it is so innovative in its method of working and so powerful in the fact that it operates in front of our entire continent, in front of all our people, that it will end up being of enormous importance. i would also like to make another comment. it has been said here from time to time that the commission must be stronger. i agree with that, but i would like to analyse the results achieved, albeit in a whispered and sometimes, as they say, difficult to understand language. i think it's the results that count. the convention was not born, it was not given to us: the convention was a relationship between parliament and the commission immediately after nice, in the days of the greatest despair of both institutions. it was this very work together that allowed us to climb back to the goal that seemed completely unexpected. we must admit that we have had a great deal of help from the belgian presidency, which has made this subject a very special topic, but it was the work of parliament and the commission that has brought us to - i repeat - the possibility, never before in european history, of proceeding with a renewal of the institutions with a broad scope, an open debate, with time ahead, so that all european citizens can hear us and understand what we are discussing. when this debate becomes, for the citizens of europe, a discourse on the efficiency of the institutions, a discourse on the unanimity of votes or the various vetoes, a discourse on the need to proceed quickly in order to be able to work in the service of europe itself, well, this discourse will be understood, and in an extraordinary way. our problem was that decisions were made in places and at times that were incomprehensible to us. so that is the strength of the commission, that is the strength of parliament: patience, but also never forgetting what the goals were to achieve. i would remind mr swoboda, who made a very constructive speech, that our proposal for the basic text dates back to january 2001: that's where we focused because this text, adagio adagio, could really be the reference point for all our work. this 2001 was a year in which we redefined the boundaries of our work, we outlined the strategy. we are certainly taking a great risk, because everything will be in the convention, our whole future, but we have finally brought this debate into the proper field where the citizens can hear us. finally, i would like to end with a bit of a joke on the reform of the institutions, reminding mr barón crespo and the other four presidents that i answered their letters on 5 december, and the answer is registered under the number 850511. so i think we're going to have to reform the postal services, i don't know if it's the sender or the receiver. in any case, as i always do, i have diligently replied to the letter.
- this debate is over.
- the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the world trade organisation meeting in qatar.
the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in doha. the meeting was a success for the world community and certainly for the european union. it has not been an easy task, because the european union had set out to doha with an ambitious, broad agenda. some of you have been able to follow the progress of the negotiations on the spot. as president of the council, i have had several exchanges of views with the members of the european parliament, who, incidentally, had their meeting room right next to that of the presidency, and that was very practical. i think that everyone who was there was also able to fully appreciate the great scepticism, the great initial scepticism, of many wto members about this broad eu agenda.
commission - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission considers that the doha ministerial meeting was a success: a success in relation to the objectives set for the union, a success also in relation to the interests pursued by the developing countries, and finally a success in relation to the needs of the world economy and the multilateral trading system. we came back from doha with a stronger and more balanced wto, which was the central objective of the mandate that the council and your assembly gave to the negotiators. the results thus largely reflect many of the concerns you have expressed in this house, in particular in your two resolutions of 25 october. i will try to show you in a few words how they are matching up with the three main objectives of the union: the integration of developing countries, better governance of globalisation and better market access for all. let us start with the first objective, which is the integration of developing countries into the world economy. it is fully and constantly present in every element of the negotiating programme we adopted in doha. we have made progress on the four development-critical aspects of trade policy from the development policy point of view: better access for developing countries to our markets; better internal policies, notably with the 'investment, competition, public procurement' part of our work programme; the commission has also proposed that the european union should provide a framework for the development of the developing countries, in particular by providing for a more assertive role for developing countries in the multilateral negotiation process and, finally, by strengthening their capacity to benefit from trade liberalisation. one point i would like to stress is the negotiation process. on this point, i believe, as the president-in-office of the council has just said - and i agree with her 100% - that the working methods in doha have been more transparent and have actually allowed developing countries, who, as you will recall, left seattle sometimes frustrated, sometimes angry, to participate fully in the decision-making mechanisms. this is a major development. in the field of technical assistance to developing countries, we will have to discuss again, both within the commission, with the council and, in due course, with parliament, how the union is working, as a union and through the member states, on trade-related technical assistance programmes for developing countries. finally, on a subject which was very dear to you, namely the special situation of the least developed countries, what was agreed at the third united nations conference on the least developed countries in brussels has now been incorporated into the wto work programme, which is also good news. mrs neyts-uyttebroeck has already mentioned the declaration on intellectual property rights and health, which i think is quite typical of what we have achieved, since the union made the choice, which was a little difficult but ultimately positive, to try to bridge the gap between the concerns of the united states on the one hand and the concerns of third parties on the other. this is a specific case where our role as intermediaries, with our openness to each other's views, has finally proved to be the right one.
the commission. - mr president, madam president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in order to give a realistic idea of what the doha agreement means for agriculture, i should like to briefly touch on the individual points of the doha declaration. the first part of the declaration deals with the general objective of agricultural negotiations within the wto, namely the establishment of a fair and market-oriented trading system. at the same time, it also recognises the work done since the beginning of 2000 in the context of the so-called article 20 negotiations. the next section deals with the three classical pillars of trade: access to markets, exports, competition and internal support measures. the term 'comprehensive negotiations with a view to substantial improvements in market access' was used for market access. this reflects the conclusions of the agriculture council of 27 september 1999, which recognised the importance of further liberalisation of agricultural trade as a contribution to sustainable economic growth. the term 'comprehensive negotiations' means that all agricultural products can be included in the negotiations, but also that all issues should be discussed. we have also made it quite clear that geographical indications are also included. as regards export subsidies, the text refers to the reduction of all forms of export subsidies, which is precisely what you, as a parliament, referred to in your resolution of october. it is also stated that the negotiations should be conducted with a view to the complete abolition of export subsidies. the text also makes it clear that none of the statements on the three pillars may prejudge the outcome of the negotiations. there is therefore no obligation at present to negotiate the total abolition of export subsidies in this round. we also know that there is a broad coalition against the continuation of export subsidies. the cairns group, the united states and the group of 77 developing countries have all spoken out against the continuation of export subsidies. as regards internal support, the text refers to substantial reductions in the area of distortive aid. this is also in line with their resolution calling for the abandonment of measures distorting competition and with our mandate to negotiate internal support while maintaining the blue box and green box approaches. we have chosen the word concept deliberately to indicate that we are quite willing to negotiate the details of the blue box and the green box. the degree of distortion of competition will be a core element of all discussions in the context of internal support measures. another important point is the special and differentiated treatment of developing countries. i know that integrating the developing countries into international trade is one of your priorities. the wording of the doha declaration is consistent with this objective and also with the 1999 council mandate. the text also deals with non-trade-related issues. the proposals already made by wto members in geneva in this area are expressly recognised. as you know, the european union has also put forward a number of proposals on the main non-trade-related issues, the environment, rural development, food safety, consumer concerns, labelling and animal welfare. the doha declaration, by explicitly recognising non-trade concerns, gives us the opportunity to pursue these objectives in the forthcoming negotiations. the final section contains the timetable for agreeing the modalities, 31 march 2003, and the deadlines for submitting the comprehensive drafts. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the new member states, and to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the new member states. apart from the purely agricultural part of the text, i would point out that the section on the trips agreement also deals with the question of geographical indications. we are therefore able to pursue our objectives in the negotiations on geographical indications both in the agricultural negotiations and in the trips negotiations. finally, in parallel with the declaration on the start of the doha development round, an agreement was reached on the acp waiver, which will enable us to conclude the solution negotiated with the united states and ecuador to settle the banana dispute. this means that the proposal already put forward by the commission can be adopted as soon as you have made your views known here in the european parliament, as i hope will be later this week. let me conclude by saying that the satisfactory outcome of the doha conference does not necessarily mean that the forthcoming agricultural negotiations will therefore now be easy. the objectives of the other major wto members sometimes differ very much from ours, but we will do everything to safeguard the european agricultural model while negotiating a fairer and more market-oriented trading system for agricultural products. it will be very important that we continue to achieve a common position among the member states, and your support will help us to do so. it will also help us to continue the good cooperation we have had with the council and also within the commission on this issue.
- we're gonna have to stop this debate. i propose that we try to complete the list of group spokesmen before we interrupt the debate.
on behalf of the liberal group, i would also like to extend our thanks and congratulations to the council and commission, especially to commissioner lamy. in our view, without the effective work of the commissioner and the council, in cooperation with parliament, the new round would never have been proposed, let alone launched, and for that we are grateful. it seems to us that the summit at doha represented the coming together of two themes or two trends within the wto. the first theme is the first concerted attempt to accommodate the needs and legitimate complaints of developing countries. we have referred already to the trips agreement, the text on implementation, us movement on anti-dumping, a chink of light in the european position on agriculture – these to us are very significant developments. the second theme or trend is that the talks extended well beyond traditional market access preoccupations and moved towards the development of new rules, competition, investment and, above all, the environment. that again seems to us to be a very welcome development and we are very pleased to see that a balance seems to have been struck – a sensible and workable balance between the needs of developing countries and the need to develop new rules within the world trade organisation. some have suggested – i think my green friends and other critics of the wto – that somehow these two things are incompatible with each other and that developing new rules on the wto is anathema to the interests of the developing countries. we found it particularly bizarre that green members of this house and green campaigners rejected talks on the environment within the wto, in the name of the developing countries. to us, there is no trade-off between sustainable multilateral environmental disciplines and multilateral attempts at poverty alleviation. now is the time for delivery. some of the news over the last few days is a little mixed, particularly from the united states, over the concessions which were extracted from the administration in the fast-track debate and the debate on trade and steel in washington. we must keep the pressure up to make sure that the momentum that was established in doha is maintained in the years ahead and we will certainly strive to do so. (applause)
mr president, it is no secret that the green/efa group does not share the majority view of parliament over the outcome of the doha meeting. for us, with a few exceptions, it was not a success. it was an unedifying example of the richer countries bullying the poorer ones and has prompted many to assert that the so-called victory in doha was a failure for democracy. while it is certainly true the developing countries asserted themselves in a much stronger way than ever before – and that is to be commended – it is also true that the outcome from doha falls far short of the development round which was promised us. that is not only the view of the green/efa group, but also of the vast majority of ngos from both north and south, and of many of the southern representatives there as well. let me remind you of some of the interventions in the doha plenary debate. the indian minister of commerce, mr murasoli muran, said that the only conclusion that could be drawn is that developing countries have little say in the agenda-setting of the wto; it appears that the whole process was a mere formality and we are being coerced against our will. let me remind you of what jamaica said. ambassador mr randsford smith said that we regret that the draft texts presented to this ministerial conference, as at the outcome of the geneva preparatory process, do not sufficiently reflect or capture the position and proposals of developing countries. i could give you many more similar quotations. let us have a look in a bit more detail at what they really mean. there was only a very brief acknowledgement of the need to review implementation issues: that was a key agenda issue for the developing countries going into doha. the language on the phasing out of agricultural exports subsidies has been substantially watered down, due to eu objections. as a result, farmers in the south will continue to have their livelihoods devastated. as tanzania's trade minister, mr iddi simba, said, the wrong policy on agriculture might lose elections in france, but it loses lives in africa. there is no commitment to an early phase-out of textiles and garment quotas because of strong resistance from the united states. demands for development linked to the promotion of food security, which is being promoted by many developing countries, were completely ignored. commissioner lamy, i do not expect you to agree with this analysis, but at the very least you should acknowledge the very real anger and frustration of the developing countries throughout the conference and pledge that in the negotiations that are now beginning their interests will genuinely be at the forefront of our priorities.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is a bit unusual to give an opinion on a report that has already been voted on. i would like to clarify, however, - so that there are no open questions - what is to be said in connection with the report that has been voted on. apart from the good work done here in the preparation, we all agree that a decision by the council on the amounts of aid and the stabilizer must be reached by the end of the year in order to provide the necessary security. i support the content of the proposed amendments to the compromise. firstly, i accept the possibility of introducing, at the level of the national guaranteed quantities, compensation between member states within the framework of the community guarantee ceiling. secondly, i am in favour of an implementing regulation which allows a sufficient degree of flexibility for niche products from small producers. thirdly, in the light of the results of a thorough study of the functioning of this market organization and of the supply of the community market with the various varieties of seed, the commission will submit to the council and parliament appropriate proposals on the basis of article 37, including the fixing of the maximum guaranteed quantity. we'll do it in time for the interlocking system to build on it. as regards the application of the stabilizer, the parliament's proposal to reduce the amount of aid in the year following the year when the maximum guaranteed quantity is exceeded offers several advantages, which we shall therefore examine carefully.
mr president, one word of explanation. this report now has a series of agreed amendments which we believe will be carried. there is one unusual procedure – the house has voted already on the criteria for the site of the european food safety authority. the council was not prepared to admit that as a part of the report. we, however, believe that it was necessary to state what the criteria should be and to insist upon that. the best way we can do that without going to conciliation is to vote it as a legislative resolution, binding therefore only on parliament. we hope that the president of parliament will convey that information and our view on the matter to the laeken summit in two days' time.
in writing. - i very much support the report by my socialist colleague calling for the establishment of general principles and requirements for food law and the establishment of a european food authority. the majority of the citizens of the european union are concerned about food safety and this is why it is essential that this authority be effective, democratic and transparent from the outset. the role proposed to parliament is to ensure that this body is subject to close scrutiny and that it is as legitimate as possible. it is also highly desirable that the seat of this future authority be physically independent of the other european institutions. this should guarantee its independence and thus make it more credible in the eyes of the citizens. finally, it is justified to call for close cooperation with the related bodies: when a food risk is suspected, it is logical that the authority can rely on the information available to other relevant associations.
in writing. - i very strongly support this report which is in line with the commission's report on financial assistance to smes through the growth and jobs initiative. as most smes are currently experiencing some difficulty in entering the technology market, this financial assistance could often be a symbol of success or good fortune for a potentially very successful sme. too often, the eu has been criticised for failing to promote a culture of innovation and enterprise: the european investment fund (eif) is the key instrument through which this imbalance can and must be redressed. it is very right to demand a thorough evaluation of projects. the project will thus have a vital element of responsibility. it is essential to call for the involvement of the european parliament.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am a somewhat unexpected rapporteur for this report. the report is in my name because the person who has done all the work on this, the standing rapporteur for the financial perspective, mr colom i naval, decided after a lot of consideration that he could not present it to parliament. i know his reasons why. i have spoken to him about them. i can respect those reasons but i am somewhat saddened that he is not giving this report instead of me. for the last three years the flexibility instrument has been the main aspect of the budget and it has overshadowed everything else. on this occasion we are using it for two programmes, as has been said by speakers before me. i do not have to outline what that is, but i have to outline one small problem which we have not yet resolved, that is, how the remaining money – the eur 27 million for the reconversion of the spanish fisheries fleet – will be found for the budget after next year. that remains an issue on which i am sure the commission will be creative and inventive when it comes to next year's budget – to make sure that money can be found, because it is certainly expected. when the interinstitutional agreement was agreed, the flexibility instrument was one of the items which was reluctantly agreed by both sides – reluctantly from our side because there was a lot of resistance to the iia anyway. do not forget that it was passed in this parliament by a simple majority, not by a qualified majority. that was an issue in itself. the council did not really like this idea anyway. if i remember correctly it was the commission that proposed it as a way out of the impasse. it is a good job that it was proposed because it has 'saved our bacon' for the last three years. in the first instance it was the great debate on how to fund kosovo. the council did not want to use it and we went to the wire, if you can remember that famous occasion in this chamber when we each had two voting lists. then last year it was on how to fund serbia. that in itself was a problem and now on this occasion we have how to fund the reconversion of the fisheries fleet and also the cross-border initiatives. these last three years have shown the creaking structure of the financial perspective. i am sure that this is a point that mr colom i naval would have made. we have a situation where the financial perspective has great problems with heading 3, heading 4 and certainly heading 5. unless parliament and council begin to get some sort of agreement on how to fund these categories in the future, the consequences will be there for all to see. it is the consequences of pre-enlargement. it is not necessarily enlargement itself. the preparations for pre-enlargement will be as big a headache as the enlargement issue itself. we also have the needs of afghanistan, or perhaps i should say the unknown needs of afghanistan. what are we going to do about that? what are we going to do if we get a hoped-for peace agreement in the middle east? where is that money going to come from? there is no room at present in heading 4. i have heard rumours that the commission may be proposing an extra flexibility instrument for heading 4. if it does, it will be a welcome addition, but whether it would be agreed by the council is a different matter. this head-in-the-sand attitude cannot prevail if we are trying to be serious about how we manage the union's budget and the taxpayers' expenses in the future. the negotiations with the belgian presidency at the second conciliation were 100% better than the first conciliation, which was a waste of time, as i made known last time. at least this time it was good to do business with the belgians, as it was last time when i was general rapporteur for the 1994 budget. there are areas where we have our differences, such as in heading 3 where we have always had difficulties. in heading 5, one of the main areas where we differ is in our support for the commission on the reform programme, especially on the establishment plan and the posts that are needed. however, whilst we have agreed on the establishment plan, the committee on budgets voted for one third of those posts in reserve, albeit by a one-vote majority. the coordinators and the rapporteur are working very hard to try to ensure that we can get a position which will deliver a qualified majority on thursday because if we do not, we may end up with the council's position which would not aid the commission's reform process as we would want it to do. i have seen the letter that commissioners schreyer, kinnock and de palacio have written, where they state that the conditions for release of the reserve have been met. if i was not the chairman of the committee on budgets i would say that i agree with those sentiments, but since i am the chairman of the committee on budgets i could not possibly say any such thing. i would like you to know that hopefully, between the vote on thursday and the not-too-distant future, we can all be in a position where we can see the commission's proposals coming to fruition and we can get on with the job of making europe the place that the citizens expect it to be and not associated with the great mystique that it represents for too many of them right now.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. – mr president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur, who is nearly at the end of the second reading. i need to remind him, from a control point of view that we anticipate and look forward to him taking a keen interest in how the budget is implemented by the commission next year and how he drives it forward from there. the committee on budgetary control tabled a number of amendments to the budget to gain extra information and evaluations from the commission. we are actually getting somewhere this year. it is a tactic we have decided to use in future years as well. we would also like to thank the committee on budgets for allowing us to have a say on transfers, in which we are particularly interested. finally, i thank the rapporteur again for taking a keen interest in the amendment concerning the european court of auditors. we on the committee will be looking at this carefully because we understand that the court of auditors will be coming to us for more money, staff and resources in the future. we are very interested to see how this year's situation develops over the course of 2002.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. – i too would like to congratulate both the rapporteurs on their budget reports and thank them for the collaborative approach that they have adopted. we have had a tough budgetary procedure especially in relation to the priorities of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. this will present my committee with problems in meeting obligations on a number of programmes. these programmes are not just crucial to achieving a dynamic knowledge – based europe but, in the light of the tough current economic climate that the european businesses and organisations are facing, our key to achieving our aims of creating new jobs and supporting businesses. however, i appreciate the constraints that we are working under and, as someone who in the past has emphasised the need for prudence, efficiency and economy, i know that my committee will do its utmost to deliver growth and prosperity for the eu. the issues that i really want to raise concern the implementation of the budget. first, there is the commission habit of ignoring some of the priorities of this budget authority and i want to give you an example from my committee in relation to the synergy programme. it is a small programme, but nevertheless an important one. however, it did not actually suit the particular director-general to implement this programme last year and so it was just ignored because they believed it did not have a big enough impact. secondly, there is the use of transfers, which i believe are open to misuse because often these happen very late in the budgetary process and the commission will transfer money from areas which are priorities for parliament to those that are priorities for them. we must have mechanisms in place to stop this recurring year on year. thirdly, there is the lack of synchronisation between the budgetary process and the launch of legislative programmes. it makes a mockery of the budgetary process and the authorities when you have the launch of the budgetary process in february and the launch of the legislative programme in november. very quickly, i wish to move on to the other institutions budgets. this concentrates largely on preparations for enlargement. i understand that parliament has made plans for new buildings to incorporate the new member states. however, if we are increasing buildings in brussels, it is important that we learn from the lessons from strasbourg and that we do not make the same mistakes as we did with this building which generated a lot of negative publicity and reflected very badly on parliament. therefore, for the future, it is important that we have a clear explanation of what these buildings are going to be used for and that these buildings are environmentally friendly, user-friendly and cater for people with disabilities. i must express surprise that we are already negotiating on new buildings in the absence of major decisions in a variety of areas including the language regime.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. – mr president, i again would like to congratulate the rapporteur, the commission and even, to some extent, the council for the work they have done this year. this has been a budget procedure which has so far run with remarkable smoothness. we recognise the pressures on the budget – whether it is the balkans, palestine, enlargement, afghanistan or the demand for action in new fields of activity. balancing these pressures has been quite a performance, particularly on behalf of the commission, and for that we say thank you. in those sectors that are the concern of the environment committee i particularly welcome the establishment of frameworks and long-term funding regimes which have certainly stabilised our work in the area of consumers. i welcome the developing framework in the area of health where it is certainly going to encourage the development of steady progress in that field. it is equally important to say that those kind of stable funding regimes assist our work enormously. i am pleased that they have been, in the most part, respected. i also welcome the decision that was going to be taken, but has not, not to withdraw money from the life programme for the environmental projects that are so important. we can only develop our work in guaranteeing the future rights of the consumer, the health of the public and the safe, clean environment if we put our money where our mouth is and spend the cash that is needed.
mr president, i want to speak briefly about an amendment i have tabled to the turchi report on trans-european networks. i have no problem about telematics being included in such a programme and i generally support the galileo project. but the fact is that nearly eur 1 billion is committed over the next five years, all from the public sector – from either the european space agency or from the commission itself. by contrast, only eur 200 million is allocated to the project by the private sector. my amendment therefore says that it is doubtful whether the private sector will come up with the goods early enough. i ask for a reserve of half the money allocated by the commission for the first year of the funding to be set aside and released only if the private sector signs up to its commitments to take part in this project. i do not want to smash the project. i know there are heated discussions in the council, and many nations have withdrawn their support for now, or are a bit uncertain. that is not my agenda. i just want to make sure the private sector comes to the party early enough to make sure there is more confidence in the scheme as a whole.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. i would like to make a few brief comments. mr colom i naval had suggested that the amounts agreed in the multiannual programmes should be indexed in the legislative process. the commission cannot agree with this view, but it is a decision on an absolute amount. if we then have a different rate of inflation, that opens up a new margin of manoeuvre in category iii, which is obviously needed and rightly used by parliament. many remarks were made on the implementation of the budget. i would just like to remind you that this year there was a new monitoring instrument also from parliament, namely that the commission makes the implementation figures available on a weekly basis. it is the only parliament that receives such good, up-to-date information on implementation. that is not the case in the parliaments of the member states. this is a new step, and we should stick to it. of course, this is very important information for you, so that you can also observe how the implementation is going. i believe that what we have stated in the resolution is another important step towards good cooperation in the context of good implementation of the budget. the third point, which was raised in many of the contributions, concerns the flexibility of the budget as a whole. how rigid is this system that we have with the financial perspective? it is already remarkable that this year the council for the first time agreed almost immediately to the use of flexibility instruments, the flexibility reserve for the budget. this is a very important point to make. but we must also ask ourselves whether this is enough. we are in the third year of the financial perspective. some things - i must say - are almost household chores that we have to do together. it is the third year that we have started the budget together. i think we can be satisfied with the result again, it can indeed be seen. i would like to thank all those involved on behalf of the commission once again.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 10 a.m.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0431/2001) by mrs haug, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 2223/96 as regards the use of the esa 95 for the determination of the financial contributions of the member states to the vat-based own resource (8793/1/2001 - c5-0385/2001 - 2000/0241 (cod)).
the commission is aware of the fact that the council has not yet adopted the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the regulation, as mr garriga has pointed out, will allow member states to use the best and most recent data from national accounts for the calculation of own resources based on vat. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the debate at first reading has given us a better understanding and reaffirmed the need to improve the information to parliament on the revenue side of the budget. as a result of this debate, on behalf of the commission i would like to confirm that at the beginning of each year we will present to parliament the working document on the state of collection of own resources, the forecasts of own resources for the next budgetary year and any other specific problems relating to the own resources system. i therefore confirm what the rapporteur, mrs haug, has said in this connection and what mr garriga has also said. i believe that we are going to establish a fruitful partnership between the commission and parliament, and i would like to congratulate mrs haug on this initiative and on the work she has done in the adoption of this highly technical but, not for that reason, less important regulation.
- thank you, chief. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the commission's communication on the green paper on the criminal protection of the community's financial interests and the creation of a european public prosecutor is on the agenda.
the commission. i would like to make a number of points. firstly, you are the protagonist of this idea and have been pursuing it for a long time. i believe that we are also at a stage where it is very important to be concrete, as was shown at the nice summit. it was a question of what exactly this should mean, which is then gladly taken as an opportunity to say, the whole idea has to wait. the timetable is more or less as follows: the consultation will run until june 2002; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
firstly i would like to say that the previous speaker, my illustrious committee chairman, was being slightly disingenuous because there is no real demand for a european public prosecutor. only two weeks ago in parliament we saw huge tranches of her own report being deleted because they contained references to such a body. there will be some dissension among the various political parties in this house but many people are concerned about what this is actually leading to. i do not think you were being completely fair with us, commissioner, when you said it will only go so far and no further. will it lead to corpus juris? if you say no to this question, how can you reconcile that with the answer that mrs delmas-marty gave our committee a month ago? mrs delmas-marty is the former head of the supervisory body of olaf and she has written many books on this particular subject. she said yes – a european public prosecutor will almost certainly lead to corpus juris, a common body of law throughout the community. what would be the core competences of the european public prosecutor? what powers would he or she have? what are the community's financial interests? surely you are not ignoring political signals sent by both the council – many countries are against this – and parliament, which, as i said at the beginning, two weeks ago rejected many things to do with the european public prosecutor?
the commission. - mr president, madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission does not have the power to appoint a prosecutor who can then prosecute and bring charges in the member states. the european union is based on a treaty whereby the member states delegate powers to the european level. member states have not yet conferred competence to create a european public prosecutor. this competence for prosecution must first be established at european level. that means that the treaty must be amended and, of course, an effective instrument must be created to effectively prosecute crossborder crime in all member states and to be able not only to investigate but also to prosecute, so that prosecution leads to prosecution and eventually to punishment. that is the procedure we must follow. you may say that you want a different european union, but i must also say that the commission is the guardian of the treaties and that is why we must propose something which respects the competences. this is a proposal which i believe is really promising, and i hope that we can convince the sceptics as well.
mr president, i just wanted to ask a few questions. i am sorry i was not here at the beginning. first of all, do you not think that mr heaton-harris is giving a green light to fraudsters? in the past five years only two people have been prosecuted for fraud against the eu. if he does not come up with any alternatives, it is effectively giving the green light. i wonder if you could comment on that. secondly, how do you convince those member states which are resistant to the concept of european public prosecutor, for example my own country which, in my opinion, is misguided on this point? thirdly, how will the european public prosecutor be appointed? and, fourthly, do you not agree that it is important not to proceed too quickly and do you accept also that this proposal is not enough? in other words, eurojust will simply not work.
thank you commissioner for a very full answer. everybody is aware that this is very difficult. my point is one that was raised with me by a minister in ljubljana. all the crossings, whether they are legal or illegal, will be used by terrorists, smugglers, immigrants, criminals and so on. therefore it is a very serious problem. the minister also said to me: we cannot pay; we do not have the money to man all these crossings! so slovenia has got a real problem. there are nine other applicant countries – if i leave aside cyprus and malta where it is presumably easier to control the borders – so we have ten applicant countries, all with problems like this, without enough money to meet the cost. is there any possibility that the commission might propose that the union takes on a responsibility for guarding our eastern borders?
commission. – the commission confirms that it is aware of the phenomenon of child trafficking. as regards the situation in the european union, a study has been finalised with support from the stop programme. the title of the report is 'trafficking in unaccompanied minors for sexual exploitation in the european union'. it was carried out by the international organisation for migration and is available on the iom's website. the report includes figures from belgium, germany, italy and the netherlands. the commission is also shortly expecting a report from defence for children international in the netherlands. they have carried out a study on the extent to which children are trafficked for sexual purposes into the european union, how they get here, what happens to them next and what can be done to help them. furthermore, for 2002 the stop ii programme will support a follow-up and extension of the iom report through a seminar on trafficking in unaccompanied minors in eu member states. additional research on the situation in france, greece and spain will form part of the preparations of this seminar. as regards action against trafficking in human beings, the commission has been developing a comprehensive policy to fight and prevent such trafficking in human beings over the past few years. the most recent example is the agreement reached on 28 september 2001 on the commission's proposal for a framework decision on combating trafficking in human beings. the framework decision essentially concerns approximation of criminal laws and penalties to improve and facilitate law enforcement and judicial cooperation. the commission confirms that the political dialogue under the cotonou agreement and eu support for good governance in acp countries have given real opportunities to address the human and social aspects of this practice, as well as the corruption elements that may be linked to it. moreover, as poverty and lack of local opportunities are amongst the main reasons for children being trafficked, the poverty-reduction approach of our development cooperation is a meaningful basis for attacking the problem. it gives a priority to equitable growth and better access to education. the commission is also implementing actions and coordination with unicef and a large number of ngos in several african countries where this problem is most acute. in june 2000, in cotonou, in benin i had the strange experience of visiting two projects we were funding from the commission. one project was helping abandoned children, the other helping abducted children. in the same city we had two groups of beneficiaries: one project was for street children or orphans or simply abandoned children, and the other was for children who had been freed by the project from being enslaved. it was very strange to experience. we went from one project to another and were told about two different ways in which children find themselves in very serious situations. we are pleased with our cooperation with ngos in many countries in trying to do something meaningful here. finally, it is not envisaged that the community as such will ratify the oecd convention on bribery and corruption which is mentioned in the question, as its member states are ratifying this convention. at present all member states, except ireland, have ratified the convention and it is expected that ireland will ratify it very shortly.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner very much indeed for that extremely comprehensive answer and also for mentioning his own personal experience of the problem. i am pleased at the range of measures that he has outlined. if i could perhaps ask a couple of supplementary points: in his list of countries involved in the various studies on the stop programme, he did not actually mention the united kingdom. perhaps he could confirm whether my own member state is involved or whether it will be brought in in the future. if not, maybe this is something that i, along with others, can do something about. secondly, in terms of the work outlined and personal experience, particularly in relation to the issue of providing information to the parents of children – to some extent setting aside the issues i raised in my question, as it is clear from the bbc report that parents of children are being completely misled by people wishing to exploit their offspring – are there perhaps grounds for involving the eu in some sort of campaign to overcome this problem of misinforming parents, to try and tackle the issue at source.
commission - as regards the capacity, mr martin, it was inevitably out of step with the number of hotel rooms available in qatar, which, if i remember correctly, is some 4 500 rooms; i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the matter, and i hope that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the matter. however, in the context of the european union, and i suppose that is the one that interests you most - in any case, it is the one that interests me most - we have the great fortune of participating in conferences of this kind with the fifteen member states, which in turn bring a number of ngos with their own delegations. so from a european point of view, the presence of ngos was very much assured and i did not hear any complaints about this in the many contacts i had with these organisations, either during or before. as for the rest, i'll be attending a review meeting next week to get my thoughts on it. again, if you'd like to get firsthand information, those who were there can tell you. as far as their ability to act on the ground is concerned, it was real. i myself spent some time, or my colleagues did, explaining to them every day (as i did to the parliament's delegation and, of course, to the council of ministers) where we were coming from, where we were and where we were going, so that they could follow the work and influence it: you know, when you meet a delegation of this kind who can put forward one or two major points, that counts in such circumstances. so i feel that, from this point of view, things were much better in doha than in seattle. i would remind you of what i said earlier: with doha as the only candidate, competition and the law of the market in terms of the attractiveness of the conference venues have not really played a role. we cannot but acknowledge that, since there was only doha as a candidate, i do not see what other choice we had. i would remind you that we ourselves made it a condition that all delegations should have equal access.
commissioner, would i be mistaken in suggesting that perhaps the admirable arrangements at doha had something to do with the relative success of that meeting compared with previous wto meetings? perhaps we are finding a way of having a more civilised relationship with the ngos than was evident in seattle and genoa? are you happy that we now have a more rational and civilised arrangement to deal with the representations of ngos for the future?
commission. – mr president, as rightly pointed out by parliament's report, one of the key issues concerning animal transport relates to travelling time limits, and i thank parliament for its contribution. travelling times, as with other parameters such as temperatures or densities, are essential elements to achieve a good level of protection for the animals during transport. as a matter of policy, the commission considers it to be of the utmost importance to draft legislative proposals on the basis of sound scientific advice. the commission has therefore requested an opinion from the scientific committee on animal health and animal welfare on different welfare aspects of animal transport and, in particular, travelling time limits. this opinion is expected early in 2002. the commission will present further proposals on animal transport in the light of this opinion. as regards the granting of export refunds for slaughtered cattle, the commission shares the views of the council, as expressed in its resolution of 19 june 2001 on welfare. the first objective is to correct the deficiencies observed with the implementation of existing legislation. there should be more controls and severe sanctions if the existing legislation on welfare during transport is not correctly implemented, be it on transport inside the community or on exports to countries outside the eu. commissioner fischler is also committed to strengthening the existing rules in this respect. community legislation in the field of export refunds unambiguously links the payment of aid to the respect of all the conditions related to animal welfare. the community must achieve a well-balanced solution to the different aspects of this question. for example, it is wrong to assume that if we abolish the refund for live cattle, third countries will import carcases rather than live animals. i conclude by assuring you that animal welfare is very high on the agenda of the commission. animal transport in particular deserves much attention and action in the near future.
in 1993, the commission admitted that the laws on animal transport were being systematically flouted. in 1999, we had further evidence of particular problems in spain, italy and greece. there is no reason to believe that implementation enforcement has improved at all since 1993 or 1999. animals frequently still find themselves crammed into overcrowded trucks, given neither food nor water, often for journeys flouting the current limits and travelling for up to 30 or 40 hours. the combination of high temperatures, poor ventilation, overcrowding and lack of water can be lethal. many animals suffer extreme discomfort during transport and arrive dead or dying at their destination. the european parliament has repeatedly voted in favour of an eight-hour limit on transport. it had the overwhelming support of a majority in plenary. it had the support of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and the committee on agriculture and rural development. i am pleased to hear that a proposal will follow the opinion of the scientific committee, but what is the commission going to do to ensure the proposal is enforced properly and to ensure the current laws are enforced properly? what specific actions is commissioner byrne going to take to improve enforcement both of current laws and the laws that we hope to see implementing an eight-hour limit and an end to export subsidies?
mr president, commissioner, i want to speak on an issue which parliament identified before qatar as vital, indeed we called it 'make or break' as did the commissioner – that is the link between environment and trade. in qatar, we saw a breakthrough. for the first time, and against fierce and widespread opposition, we will have negotiations on some key environmental issues. of course, much more remains to be done, but a process has been started and a taboo broken. the key to further progress must be to demonstrate, above all, to developing countries that their fears of green protectionism on our side are groundless. qatar, frankly, did not produce the progress that we in the pse group wanted, and asked for beforehand on labour rights, on democracy and transparency in wto decision-making. but it did leave the way open to progress on both. we know there was intense pressure from many countries, including developing countries, for a declaration that labour rights were a matter for the ilo alone. that pressure was resisted quite rightly and the principle of wto cooperation with the ilo restated. the eu must now push hard to translate this principle into practice, seizing the opportunity given by the ilo's launch of a commission on the social aspects of globalisation in which the wto and other international organisations will be participating. the ministerial meeting also agreed to negotiations on reform of the dispute settlement procedure with an open agenda covering whatever proposals wto members choose to table. the eu must take this opportunity for openness and transparency. commissioner, we would really like to know what your ideas are for reform and we shall not be slow in letting you know what our ideas are either. we would like to put on record today our recognition of the key role played by you, commissioner lamy, in the success of the meeting. you had a very difficult role and you displayed skill and tenacity. i emphasise, in particular, your insistence that you need the political support of this house in order to pursue the round in the way it was launched. we shall be marking our support in a resolution to be voted tomorrow. many people went to qatar hoping for a fiasco, hoping for a re-run of seattle, hoping for something to denounce, in a mood of populism. they are disappointed in that hope and they need to be honest with themselves and to respect the views of developing countries not to indulge in paternalism as some of our colleagues have unfortunately done. the qatar declaration contains almost everything that developing countries wanted on the agenda. the agenda is not the outcome and we will need to be vigilant for a good result, but when developing.... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, before doha, many of us were clearly aware that the issue of access to medicine was going to be the benchmark that developing countries would use to test our seriousness about whether we wanted to launch a development round. what we have seen is a declaration on access to medicines and public health. even the title is important because it is not just about access to medicines, it is about support for public health. it is groundbreaking and, as someone said this morning, it has within it a commitment to the whole question of flexibility of the agreement on trips. as the commissioner is well aware, the united states and switzerland, in particular, argued that the reference to public health was too broad. they wanted it to be limited to certain infectious diseases. but i have to say, commissioner – and you will agree – that what happened represented a real victory for developing countries because they were skilled in negotiation, and that position by the us and switzerland, in particular, was finally rejected. it is important that we pay tribute to developing countries and to the negotiating skills that they displayed. the belief traditionally fostered by the pharmaceutical companies has been that patents are sacrosanct. after doha that has changed. if drug companies price medicines beyond the reach of people who need them, governments can override patents without the fear of retribution. despite the progress at doha, as far as patent rules are concerned, the story is far from over. i have two specific questions, commissioner. does the commission agree that the immediate challenge is to ensure that the wto lifts the restrictions on the export of cheap equivalents of patented drugs to countries which have decided to override a patent but do not have the necessary manufacturing capacity? that issue was not resolved at doha and has been referred to the trips council. secondly, how does the commission intend to ensure that countries without production capacity or insufficient production capacity can make full use of the compulsory licensing provisions? this must, in my view, be accompanied by a reduction in the length of drug patents in poor countries. trips currently dictates a patent term of 20 years world-wide. at the review of the rules scheduled for 2002, the wto should at least agree to extend the deadline for trips compliance for all developing countries and base it on development progress rather than on arbitrary dates. i wonder if the commissioner agrees with me on this? finally, on the question of developing countries, i would like to pay tribute, in particular, to acp countries, in which we have a particular interest and partnership in the european union. the 77 acp countries succeeded in obtaining a waiver. they put out a brilliant declaration before doha. i have had several meetings with them since then. they are well pleased with the results.
madam president, the adoption of community action in the field of public health is greatly welcome. the new public health strategy will determine the eu's focus on health for the next five years. that is why having clear priorities is so important: firstly, improving information and knowledge concerning health issues; secondly, strengthening rapid reaction to health threats; and, finally, tackling health determinants. however, as many of my colleagues have mentioned, the budget remains an issue. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy would like eur 300 million. this is an eur 80 million increase which would correspond to the amount already in the existing programmes. as many have mentioned, this is eur 100 million more than the council asked for in the common position. this is necessary in order for the programme to work effectively, and it is more than fair. i would like to take this opportunity, in light of 11 september, to ask the commissioner if any new action to combat bioterrorism will be funded by a new budgetary proposal and not from the framework programme? finally, i would like to emphasise the importance of working with ngos. i am alarmed that the conservatives in this house have called for a split vote on the issue of ngo networks. i fear that this will undermine the partnership which has been built up under the previous programme where the community relied on ngo networks to deliver messages such as the "europe against cancer week". the new health programme is about protecting the health of all eu citizens, not just the privileged few. this will not be achieved without working with the eu citizens who are most interested and knowledgeable about public health. health is what matters to the majority of eu citizens. we should make sure that this programme matters.
commission. – madam president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, mrs paulsen, and the committee on environment, public health and consumer policy for their recommendation for second reading on the council common position for adopting a european parliament and council directive on desirable substances in animal feed. the measures in the council common position are a key element of the comprehensive strategy to improve the safety of feed. prohibition of dilution will reduce the overall contamination load of animal feed. operators across the production chain will also be obliged to put in place passive systems and good manufacturing practices to ensure that the feed materials and the feedstuffs they produce are safe. the setting of action levels will act as an early warning system, triggering a proactive approach to identify sources and pathways of contamination and to take measures to eliminate them. the commission cannot accept amendments nos 1, 2 and 3 as adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. regarding amendment no 1, the commission considers that the possibility of returning non-compliant products intended for animal feed to the country of origin has to be maintained. the commission shares, however, parliament's concerns in this regard and agrees, therefore, that this return can only happen under strict conditions. regarding amendments nos 2 and 3 on the date of application, the commission cannot accept the time period of six months. instead, sufficient time is needed to transpose these far-reaching measures into national legislation. serious efforts have to be made by the operators to apply the measures in practice. the commission is therefore pleased that compromise amendments nos 4, 5 and 6 have been tabled for this plenary session to replace amendments nos 1, 2 and 3.i should confirm that the compromise amendments are – should you decide to keep them on the table – acceptable to the commission. these compromise amendments address the commission's reasons for non-acceptance of the first three amendments. therefore the commission can accept amendments nos 4, 5 and 6. the commission will also try to persuade the council to do likewise. i wish also to inform you that a revision of the maximum levels of the undesirable substances in annex i is foreseen. the commission has already requested the scientific committee for animal nutrition to provide updated scientific risk assessments. these assessments are the key scientific input to the revision of the annex. the commission hopes to finalise this review as soon as possible. it should be available before this directive becomes applicable. to conclude, i once again thank mrs paulsen for the excellent work she has done on this file.
the commission. - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the european parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mr lange, for the rapid preparation of the report for the second reading of this report. in general, i can say that the deep commitment of mr langen to the issues in this field has been highly respected by the commission. i am pleased that the rapporteur agrees with the emission limit values and their dates of application, which will be introduced from 2003. however, the rapporteur proposes to re-introduce the amendment at first reading concerning the mandatory second-stage limits to be applied from 2006 onwards. this phase would be based on the limit values and test cycle currently applied to passenger cars. as you know, the commission has from the outset supported the tightening of the emission ceilings in 2006, in accordance with the following principles: a globally harmonised motorcycle test cycle, corresponding to the actual road behaviour of motorcycles, and corresponding emission limits shall be used. a reliable emission measurement series shall be used in the new motorcycle test cycle to define new limit values in a scientifically sound manner and in accordance with advanced emission control techniques. the technical development of the test cycle for motorcycles has been completed in the relevant un-ece working group. in recent months, a large-scale emission measurement programme has been carried out. i can tell you that the test results of 50 motorcycles are already available. next week, we'll have a working group to evaluate the results. we do not need to wait for a global consensus on a harmonised test procedure, but the technical work done in this programme will enable us to define a solution for motorcycles that may be applicable first in eu legislation. the approach proposed by the rapporteur is an alternative, but it should be further improved to be effective in terms of environmental protection. the commission cannot support any of the amendments which would introduce a mandatory second stage. however, the commission is ready to contribute with the other institutions to the formulation of an agreement which is technically ambitious and which benefits the environment. the common position already contains a package of measures to improve the control of in-use emissions, but the report still contains a number of amendments which specify more precisely the deadlines and details of the provisions. the commission supports amendment no 6, which concerns the prevention of the circumvention of the test cycle, and the first parts of amendments nos 5 and 14, which concern the conformity of motorcycles in use. the commission also approves amendments nos 3 and 12 to allow retrofitting on old vehicles. the commission does not accept the sustainability requirements in amendments nos 5, 13 and 20. these provisions could lead to a constantly changing provision in the period 2003-2006. the commission supports the inclusion of co2 emissions and fuel consumption measurement in the type-approval system as a necessary condition for the future reduction of co2 emissions and improvement of fuel economy. however, any related measures can only be taken after a thorough assessment. the commission therefore accepts amendment no 7 but rejects amendments nos 15 and 19. amendments nos 8 and 9 relate to the introduction of the second stage limit values for mopeds. the commission cannot accept amendment no 8 because it delays the application of the second stage to new type-approvals from the date already agreed in the existing directive 97/24/ec. the commission is, however, in favour of amendment no 9 in order to clarify the expiry date for first-stage authorisations, which is left open in the directive. the commission therefore accepts amendments nos 3, 6, 7, 9, 12, 17 and 22. the commission also accepts in principle amendments nos 1 and 18 and, in part, amendments nos 5, 14 and 23. the commission does not agree with amendments nos 2, 4, 8, 10, 11, 13, 15, 16, 19 to 21 and 24 to 27.
president of the republic of korea. the speech was given in korean; this is the version interpreted into english– madam president, commissioner prodi, distinguished guests. it is with deep emotion that i stand here on this podium today. i have always admired the european parliament, this great hall of democracy and the very symbol of european unity. this is the place where the unprecedented and monumental task of bringing the countries of europe together was achieved. here, the members of the european parliament are working for the realisation of democracy, economic prosperity and social justice in europe and throughout the world. it is therefore my great pleasure and honour to speak from this most distinguished place. i am deeply grateful, moreover, to you, madam president, for your kind and gracious words of welcome. when i was elected president four years ago, korea was in a desperate situation, faced with a serious financial crisis. eu members responded to my appeals and supported our efforts to overcome the difficulties by sending, among other things, an investment mission to korea. thanks to such support, we were able to recover from the crisis. neither the korean people nor i will ever forget your friendly help. i thank you all. the 21st century is witnessing what will probably be known as the greatest revolution in human history. this great revolution is – to put it simply – about knowledge and information and about globalisation. in the 20th century, tangible elements, such as land, capital and labour, were the sources of economic development. in the 21st century, however, intangible elements such as knowledge and information, creativity and a spirit of adventure are becoming key to increasing competitiveness. two hundred years after the industrial revolution, a new paradigm is needed, different from that of the age of industrialisation. now, the age of knowledge-based economies is opening up. it is now possible for under-developed nations and poor individuals to create wealth just by learning to use a computer. however, humanity is also faced with a very serious problem. it is the problem of what we can call the digital divide. more than 75% of the benefits derived from enhanced information capabilities are concentrated only in advanced nations. developing nations are being overlooked. the gap in information capabilities between the advanced and developing nations means a widening gap between the rich and poor. and the faster information capabilities are enhanced, the faster the gap widens between the rich and the poor. on the other hand, the information revolution is inevitably linked with accelerating openness and globalisation. territorial boundaries are becoming practically meaningless as enormous amounts of information are spreading throughout the world almost instantaneously. meanwhile, cultural conflicts are arising. the worsening of poverty and advent of cultural conflicts leads to various kinds of fanaticism. thus, enhanced information capabilities and globalisation could also threaten global peace in the 21st century. i would like to stress that this is a very serious problem. the digital divide is further raising the level of antagonism between the rich and poor within a single nation. we must stop this. i would like to tell you briefly about our own experience. to overcome such problems, korea has been pushing a policy of productive welfare. productive welfare, while guaranteeing a basic standard of living, aims to concentrate on human resource development, especially for low-income families, so that they can stand on their own two feet. furthermore, productive welfare strives to improve the overall quality of life for its citizens. in particular, we place high priority on a thorough and systematic curriculum for educating the young as well as the disadvantaged, to enable them to acquire information capabilities. this effort involves a broad spectrum of people, including elementary and middle school students, millions of housewives, 600 000 members of the armed forces, the elderly, as well as the disabled and prison inmates. with this policy, we are trying to prevent the digital divide from becoming wider, which would create a gap in earnings. and we are determined to cut off the vicious circle of poverty being handed down from generation to generation, parent to child. korea built the first nationwide high-speed information network in the world. as a result, more than half of the 46 million citizens are now active users of the internet. to identify and effectively resolve the problem of the digital divide, international awareness and cooperation are vital. i believe that advanced nations, including the members of the eu, must use their leadership to help developing countries, by providing various kinds of support, including the construction of a viable information infrastructure. korea will actively participate. we have, in fact, already begun cooperating with individual countries. now i would like to touch on the future of korea and the eu. i proposed the construction of a high-speed information network at the asia-europe summit meeting in seoul last year. i am pleased to remind you that the leaders of all the member nations gave it their active support. under this project, we are envisaging the creation of a "cyber silk road" linking asia and europe. it is a project for the new millennium aimed at furthering the exchanges between asia and europe by setting in place an "e-eurasia". in this respect, it is very fortunate that the trans-eurasian information network project is proceeding smoothly at present with the cooperation of all asem member nations, as well as the eu member nations. there is another project that would greatly promote exchanges between europe and asia. this is none other than the construction of an "iron silk road", directly linking korea with europe by land. for this project, one thing must be done – the linking of the railway between south and north korea. this railway has been severed at the demilitarised zone for the past 50 years. on the occasion of the historic inter-korean summit last year, the two koreas agreed to relink this railway, as well as an adjacent highway. if we manage to link the remaining 14 kilometres of this railway, south korea and europe will finally be connected. when the trans-korean railway (tkr) is linked with the trans-china or the trans-siberia railways, a train leaving london could reach seoul and busan via paris, eastern europe, central asia and siberia or china. then, goods could be shipped to all parts of the pacific region, and beyond, from busan, which also happens to be the third largest container port in the world. transportation costs would be cut by 30% and time shortened by one third. on the day we achieve our plans for an e-eurasia and complete our "iron silk road", asia and europe will, for all practical purposes, become one landmass. geographically, asia and europe have always formed one landmass. historically, they have been interacting for a long time. from the 5th and 6th centuries onwards, a large number of people and goods have travelled by land over the silk road and by sea through the indian ocean and persian gulf. history shows us that the cultures of the two regions have contributed to and influenced each other considerably, as they both developed. in modern times, the west's democratic system of governance, the industrial revolution and cultural achievements have exerted great influence on the politics, economy and culture of asia. meanwhile, asia, as the birthplace and cradle of three of the major civilisations, namely the tigris-euphrates, indus and yellow river civilisations, and the spiritual centre of confucianism and buddhism, greatly influenced the entire world, including europe. we all know that gunpowder and paper originated in asia and then travelled to europe. the political system featuring a centralised government, which has been prevalent in asia, had a tremendous impact on the way europeans governed themselves. today, asia and europe are pursuing the common goals of promoting democracy and market economies. three-quarters of the world's population now live in these two regions. economically, they produce half the world's products. it is very important for asia and europe to deepen mutual understanding and cooperate further, not only for the development and prosperity of the two regions but also for the peace and prosperity of the world. this is the goal and ideal of asem. i am convinced that close cooperation between korea and the eu will help put into effect this ideal of asem and greatly contribute to efforts to bind asia and europe closer together. the eu is a very important and substantive economic partner for korea. it is the number one foreign investor in korea and the third largest trade partner for korea. nonetheless, the room for expansion of trade and investment between korea and the eu is boundless. korea is located in the middle of a huge market that includes the united states, japan, china and russia. its business and investment climate has been improved greatly through continuous economic reform. it also possesses ample human resources and is equipped with the economic infrastructure suited to the knowledge-based economies of the 21st century. i hope that the eu and korea will continue to expand their cooperative partnership in the huge east asia market with korea as a bridgehead for the eu, as it advances into countries like japan and china. when this happens, we will no doubt score a "win-win success". as you know, the korea-eu framework agreement took effect last april. a systematic mechanism for further strengthening practical cooperation in such areas as investment and trade is now in place. on the parliamentary level, the korean-eu parliamentarians' council was formed and annually discusses ways to develop korea-eu relations. in the process of negotiating the doha development agenda, korea and the eu cooperated closely. let me assure you that korea will continue to step up its cooperation with the eu. as you know, the world is currently experiencing a global economic downturn. we must now reduce our dependence on the united states for our exports and open other avenues, while stimulating domestic demand. the flexible management of our financial policy is necessary to stimulate domestic demand. we must also push economic and social policies to raise the purchasing power of low-income families. in addition, we must push for more active and large-scale trade and investment between big markets like the eu and east asia. korea is opening its doors to eu members. and we also want actively to advance into the eu markets. thus, i hope that both korea and the eu will be able to overcome today's economic downturn through mutual cooperation and jointly pave the way towards a new and common prosperity. i would now like to take this opportunity to tell you about the issues surrounding the korean peninsula, in which you have taken great interest and given support. peace on the korean peninsula is an issue that concerns not only the 70 million korean people – it is also directly linked to peace and stability in the east asian region and the world. i have consistently pushed the sunshine policy to prevent war and settle peace on the korean peninsula. and, at last, the historic inter-korean summit was held in june last year. the crux of our sunshine policy calls for peaceful coexistence and peaceful exchange and cooperation between the two koreas. after a period of time, perhaps ten or 20 years, when the peoples of the south and north have come to trust each other and feel comfortable with each other, we hope to accomplish our ultimate goal of peaceful unification. unification will come. the korean people lived in a unified country for over 1 300 years from the seventh century. it is unimaginable that we should abandon our desire for unification just because we have been separated for the past half-century. as long as the korean people ardently wish for unification, and as long as support from you and the world continues, i am firmly convinced that we will be able to unify our country in the not-too- distant future. the eu has been taking part in the korean peninsula energy development organisation (kedo) and has offered a range of humanitarian and economic assistance to north korea. it is also pursuing an array of diverse activities, including technological assistance and training programmes, for the north koreans. many eu members are actively supporting our efforts for peace on the peninsula by establishing diplomatic relations with north korea. in may this year, when the inter-korean relationship experienced a temporary setback, an eu delegation, led by swedish prime minister goran persson and including eu commissioner for external relations, chris patten, visited north korea and helped us resume our dialogue. the eu is an important supporter of peace on the korean peninsula and exchanges and cooperation between the south and north. you, the members of the european parliament are genuine friends of the korean people. i earnestly hope that your unsparing support will continue until the day when peace is settled and the first ray of unification shines over the korean peninsula. right now, the world is gripped with anxiety, and we are filled with tension over the recent terrorist attack. this attack on the united states in september brought enormous shock and sorrow to all. terrorism does not declare itself before striking, terrorism is faceless and terrorism indiscriminately kills innocent civilians. it is the most cowardly and cruel act one can imagine. under no circumstances should such acts be justified or condoned. if we are unable to root out terrorism, the international order will collapse, and individuals will lose their lives. terrorism must be eradicated. in this connection, i would like to praise the quick actions of the european union in response to the attacks and for cooperating with the international community's efforts. korea is also participating in the international coalition to eradicate terrorism, and we will continue to do so. however, no religion or culture should be regarded with hostility under any circumstances. we must keep this in mind as we carry on our war against terrorism. on the contrary, we must work to strengthen dialogue and cooperation among different religions and cultures. we must eliminate the fundamental causes of terrorism, first of all, by eliminating the gap between the rich and poor and addressing the social inequalities that are getting wider every day. achieving peace in the middle east is one of the most important and urgent tasks in front of us. people around the world are craving peace and a renewed sense of security. peace and security is the task of our time. in this respect, i attach great significance to the world cup games that are going to be held in korea and japan next year. we would like to make next year's world cup a great turning point for establishing global peace and guaranteeing security for all peoples once again. the korean people and i will do our utmost to make the 2002 world cup games the safest games ever. we will make them a festival in which all people around the world will take part for peace and unity. we will give humanity hope for the future. there are only six more months to the opening of the world cup. of the 32 competing nations, 10 are eu members. i hope many of you will visit korea then to watch your teams. we will soon complete our preparations and wait for you. for those of you who will watch the games on tv, we are putting state-of-the-art facilities and measures in place so that we can vividly transmit the lively action to you in images and in real time. we will stage the 2002 world cup successfully as befits one of the greatest festivals for humankind. i hope all of you will take great interest in and help us make this a success. rudyard kipling who received the nobel prize for literature in 1907 once said: "east is east, and west is west, and never the twain shall meet." but if he were alive today, he would have said instead: "east is west, and west is east, and never the twain shall part."
- the minutes of yesterday's session have been distributed. are there any observations ?
- i'll inform the president. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved) - i would inform the house that the belgian minister for justice, mr verwilghen, president-in-office of the council, will not be able to attend the beginning of this debate because of the fog in brussels. he should arrive later, though. i suggest to the house that we continue our debate and our agenda. we are delighted to have the minister here.
- i suggest that you discuss this with your own group leader; this is therefore a matter for the conference of presidents to deal with.
- i must inform you that the president did not say that she would make the correspondence available because that correspondence is not available to us as a parliament. that's the problem. so i'm afraid that's not possible. written declarations (rule 51): see minutes
- the next item is the joint debate on the following two oral questions: - b5-0534/2001 by mrs boumediene-thiery, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs, on the annual debate in the council on the area of freedom, security and justice (articles 2 and 39 teu) in 2001; - b5-0535/2001 by mrs boumediene-thiery, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, to the commission, on the 2001 annual debate on the area of freedom, security and justice (articles 2 and 39 teu).
- we can't be late from the start. otherwise, by the end of the day, our agenda will be completely upended.
rapporteur. – mr president, this is a rather strange debate today. different reports have been put together into an omnibus debate. my report deals with the question of security at summits of the european union and similar international gatherings and it looks also at the question of citizens' rights. it is important that when parliament looks at problems that affect the union, it must do so without victimising individual countries. just as my recent report on terrorism sought to be a generic report and not one that referred exclusively to the situation in the basque country in spain, so this report sets out also to be a generic report and not one that seeks to be particularly critical of any one country. we have seen violent protests at summits in eu countries – in nice, gothenburg and genoa. such protests have been serious, in the last instance resulting in a death. my report has been drawn up in my capacity as chairman of the committee on citizens' rights and freedoms, justice and home affairs and i am pleased to say that it has enjoyed a wide consensus in that committee. i thank my colleagues for the work they have put into it and recommend that they adopt the report as it stands, and vote against the 30 amendments which have been submitted, which seem to me to relate to issues that have already been dealt with in committee. in looking at the problems of violence that we have seen, the european union must understand the causes of such violent protest and seek to prevent it. there seem to me to be two requirements in this. the first is that we must improve political dialogue on the right to peaceful assembly and to peaceful protest. the second is that we must find a firm, but proportionate, response to criminal behaviour by demonstrators. i note that in sweden and in italy judicial proceedings have followed from the violent protests that we saw. the european union, too, needs to look at whether citizens' rights have been violated, particularly in reference to article 6 (1) and to article 7 of our treaties. it must be recalled that article 7 was strengthened by the european council in nice, which instructed the european institutions to monitor the application of fundamental rights even where there is simply a risk of a violation of them. in carrying out such surveillance, institutions must be guided by the european charter on fundamental rights. hence my report seeks to begin such a study of what has happened and look at whether we have in all cases abided by our commitments. when hundreds of thousands of people representing ngos and church groups gather on the streets to express their concern and choose to do so at a series of international meetings, it is not just a coincidence. it demands an appropriate response and, indeed, a political response. we must avoid a situation where no answer is given because a society where citizens are afraid of their institutions – and perhaps more importantly institutions are afraid of their citizens – makes for a very weak democracy. in this context i welcome the démarche taken by mr guy verhofstadt in seeking to engage in dialogue with civil society, in advance of the meetings that have been held under the belgian presidency. this approach needs to be complemented by a white paper dealing with globalisation, looking at the european union's position as a major actor in an area for which the union is directly responsible and perhaps bringing together a number of commissioners from different disciplines to look at a global strategy for the european union. we must look at article 33 of the treaty, which gives member states the task of ensuring the maintenance of law and order, and see whether the responses have been appropriate. the weakness in cooperation between the member states' law and order authorities is a fundamental weakness of the union. i hope that we will be able to examine this in the context of the creation of a european area of freedom, security and justice. our citizens must know that they will receive the same treatment from authorities and enjoy the same rights under the law, whichever country they are in and wherever they are exercising their democratic rights.
- since mrs. hazan can't be with us, her report has been taken over by mr. poignant.
mr president, i wish to talk specifically about the council statement which we are expecting on cooperation between the eu and the usa and cooperation in combating terrorism. the events of 11 september were an excruciating flash of light and we had to react immediately. however, we must not be blinded into forgetting that terrorism has been a problem on our continent for many years. after 11 september, i remember hans gert poettering saying here in a memorable debate 'we are all americans', but we have learned since then that we must first be europeans. i welcome the justice and home affairs council's agreement at the weekend on a framework decision on combating terrorism. i welcome the council's recognition of a european union legal base for the freezing of assets of groups linked to terrorism and, in particular, yesterday's agreement between council president guy verhofstadt and prime minister berlusconi on a european arrest warrant. europe has put its house in order. europe has shown its capacity to act. in tackling terrorism there is a fine balance to be struck between the security needs of our citizens and the rights and freedoms which make democracy what it is. the european union has shown that it can be tough on terrorism and still be true to its treaties and to the values which underpin them. it has recognised that networks of terrorism stretch beyond its borders and that we need cooperation between democracies, particularly across the atlantic. the next step must be an agreement on better cooperation with the united states. articles 24 and 28 of the teu allow us to build a cooperation agreement on police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters with our friends in north america. we note that there is a famous exchange of letters between mr bush and mr verhofstadt – some 40 us proposals on what we could be doing to improve our capacity to fight against terrorism. most of these can be and i believe are being complied with. some of them cause a few doubts since the us appears to be asking for things which it does not require in its own laws, such as retention of traffic data. yet others highlight a difference of legal culture between our democracies. on a visit to washington dc last week, in talks with senators, congressmen and members of the administration, i was concerned to learn that the us patriot act, adopted by the united states to fight terrorism, appears to discriminate against non-us citizens. we will need to explore with our american friends quite how it affects those from the european union. i was struck too at the senate judiciary committee hearing of attorney general john ashcroft by the way in which the proposal for military tribunals – the executive order from the president – would provide for hearings in secret, for a prosecution being able to withhold evidence from the defence, for defendants not necessarily having the right to an independent lawyer or to a private conversation with their lawyer, and by how a sentence – including a death sentence – can be passed by a majority of two-thirds of the jurors. even if we were able to get an agreement on an extradition package in which the us would not apply the death penalty, the provisions of the european convention on human rights, to which all of our member states are signatories and on which the union is founded, would prevent extradition of suspects to appear before such military tribunals. here, in europe, we have developed a rights-based approach to international law. we would like a permanent international criminal court to try those guilty of crimes against humanity and we have called on the americans to join us in that. we recognise that democracies need to work together in the fight against terrorism and other forms of serious cross-border crime. my fear is that, if the us goes down the path of military tribunals, we are on divergent paths. we must make that clear to mr ashcroft on his visit to europe later this week.
in the fight for security from terrorism, we have rightly proclaimed that we are defending fundamental values but, if we compromise individual rights in the pursuit of security, we will have sacrificed some of what we hold so dear. in the last two years since tampere, the programme of cooperation on justice matters has been heavily weighted to the security side of the scales – especially since 11 september with the anti-terrorism package. all this is necessary, but it is time to rebalance the work programme. at the laeken summit, heads of government should commit themselves to a thorough review of the degree of respect in practice for the standards we have signed up to in the european convention of human rights and the charter of fundamental rights. there needs to be a programme to ensure observance of minimum standards of due process, fair trials in criminal proceedings and approximation of rights of defendants. we should project these standards in our international agreements because there are some worrying developments. in the uk, there are proposals for executive decisions for detention without trial and an attempt to avoid any significant degree of judicial review. in the united states, president bush has signed an order providing for trial in military courts in the absence of fundamental safeguards for fair trial provided for in international law. the eu must not agree to any extradition agreement with the us whereby people could be convicted in these military tribunals. finally, the case of the 14 british and dutch plane-spotters detained for nearly five weeks in greece without trial is extremely disturbing. they have been denied bail, the evidence has been presented in secret and there has been no transparent schedule of court hearings. they may be guilty at most of a misdemeanour. it will be a disgrace if the european arrest warrant is agreed this weekend and this situation has still not been resolved. i call, in particular, on prime minister blair to withhold agreement if they have not been either charged or released by friday.
mr president, i understand the need to maintain the integrity of the telecoms package, but i understand there have been some final changes to the declaration the commission has issued on 'must carry' rules. i would like to know whether this text genuinely reflects parliament's views, particularly the amendments of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, and whether the commission would be kind enough to read out that text so that we can see what we are agreeing to vote on.
mr president, if you had given me the floor first, as rapporteur, i would have been able to cover the point raised by mrs mccarthy. could i just formally ask you for a separate vote on amendments nos 2, 11, 23 and 24? i have been asked to do this as a formality, even though it is included in colleagues' voting lists. could i also say to colleagues that this is part of the compromise package we discussed. i want to make it clear in your voting list, colleagues, that the first part of amendment no 15 is part of the compromise text and i am recommending you vote against the second part. my amendment no 36 is also part of the compromise text, and for clarity for colleagues on the legal affairs committee, this is the amendment you voted on in committee with just the addition of the word 'television' after 'digital interactive'. that was a compromise. i agreed with the council to clarify the wording – there have been no other changes. can i also make it absolutely clear that amendment no 11 is also a compromise text and that is shown at the bottom of your voting list. i turn now to the points quite rightly raised by my shadow rapporteur, mrs mccarthy, on the question of 'must carry' obligations. this is an issue that many colleagues are concerned about and reflects article 31 of the proposal. i am recommending that you vote against the committee amendment as part of the compromise but i would ask you, mr president, to give the floor to mr liikanen. he has prepared a statement clarifying the access provisions for public service broadcasters in the whole electronic communication package. that access provision is the key concern of colleagues. so, can i ask you to give mr liikanen the floor?
commission. – in the light of parliament's concern over the extension of 'must carry' obligations to conditional access and other associated facilities, the commission wishes to make the following statement. first, the provision of article 6 of the access and interconnection directive guarantees all broadcasters access to conditional access systems on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. under article 5(1)(b) of the access and interconnection directive, member states may impose obligations to provide such access on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms, on other associated facilities, in particular application programme interfaces (apis) and electronic programming guides (epgs). second, the commission will monitor the application of these provisions at member state level, including 'must carry' obligations, taking into account any problems that public service or any other specified broadcasters may have in gaining access to satellite and other broadcast networks. the possibility of guidelines for member states could be considered. third, the free movement of television broadcasting services in the union is covered by the 'television without frontiers' directive. in its forthcoming review of this directive, the commission will assess inter alia the impact of technological and market developments on the production and distribution of european audiovisual networks. in conclusion, i have noted the importance the european parliament attaches to the promotion of multicultural and multilingual europe, also in this context.
mr president, if i heard the commissioner correctly he said the possibility of guidelines 'could' be considered. did i mishear that? the house needs to know whether they 'will' be considered.
can i say that we fully understand the wish of the commission and council to ensure the success of the telecom package in advance of the laeken summit. it is vital to achieve the lisbon targets, but as the shadow pse rapporteur, i wish to complain about the procedure. i also object to the deals which have been struck at the last minute behind closed doors resulting in a compromise package which seriously weakens the provisions for must-carry services and for people with special needs and disabilities. these were approved unanimously in the legal affairs committee. it was of course disappointing that the british conservative rapporteur informed me of his decision to abandon these important provisions for consumers and users in order to achieve political expediency. my delegation or the labour meps voted in favour to maintain the committee's positions on these important provisions. can we remind perhaps the commission and council that we are co-legislators, not co-drafters of declarations which have no legal force and rely on the commission's goodwill to deliver on must-carry. we will, of course, monitor the commission's progress to deliver on these provisions. i have to say that today was a victory for laeken, for the commission and council on the telecoms package, but it was not a victory for democracy in this house.
could i express surprise that the compromise package negotiated by the three largest groups has been rejected by the council? we would have preferred to have voted on the compromise amendments. the compromise on the two contentious issues, namely time allowed for setting limits and the right to return contaminated feed to the country of origin with the consent of that country's government, was realistic and workable. i wish to put on the record the position of the ed wing of the epp that the council was crazy to reject the package that was on the table. if it thinks it can get a better deal in conciliation, then it has another think coming! incidentally, the compromise was the best deal for the italian pensioners as well.
counsel. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council presidency undertook before you - and through me - to take the necessary measures to meet the deadline of 3 december 2001 for the implementation of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council of 30 may 2001 regarding public access to european parliament, council and commission documents. i am pleased to report that the council has fulfilled its commitments. on 29 november it adopted a decision amending its own rules of procedure. this decision was published in the official journal on 30 november and entered into force on 3 december, the same day that the regulation i mentioned became applicable. this decision recasts in a single act the provisions of the council's internal acts on access to documents and the new provisions on the implementation of the regulation. under article 2 of the same decision, a number of other acts were repealed: a council decision of 20 december 1993 on public access to council documents, last amended by a decision of 14 august 2000, a council decision of 6 december 1999 on improving information on the work of the council and the public register of council documents, and a council decision of 9 april 1999 on the communication to the public of certain categories of council documents.
commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a month ago i came here as a witness to the adoption by your assembly of mrs maij-weggen's report adapting the rules of procedure of parliament to the rules of procedure on public access to documents of the three institutions. that was the end of the very hard work done by your rapporteur, mrs maij-weggen, and also, i might add, by mr cashman. a week ago, a few days after the council, the commission adopted a decision amending its own rules of procedure. we had previously had an exchange of views on 28 november to ensure that the regulation was applied as clearly as possible. we needed a few more days, that's true. that is why the commission's final decision was taken only on 5 december. this has raised questions, and your president has questioned us. i want to reassure you very clearly that in practice this postponement of a few days has had no consequences for the citizens. the commission has been applying the regulation of 30 may since 3 december. to this end we have a central access point at the commission's secretariat-general, with a postal address, an e-mail address and a fax number available to citizens, who can also consult the commission's website. as from next week, the new access guide we have produced - madam minister, you have just mentioned it - will also be available on this site. so, ladies and gentlemen, we have all the practical arrangements in place for the application of the regulation and, in fact, the commission services have already started processing access requests on the basis of the new data in the regulation. article 18 of the regulation provides not only for the adaptation of the internal regulations but also for the adaptation of other existing provisions. the commission services concerned have checked whether the 1983 regulation on the opening to the public of historical archives is in conformity with the regulation on access to documents. some adjustments are needed and the commission will shortly propose to the council and parliament an amendment to the regulation on historical archives. thirdly, again pursuant to article 18 of the regulation of 30 may, the commission has drawn up an inventory of the rules which are now scattered throughout community law and which concern access to documents or information in existing community legislation. this exercise has identified almost 50 provisions which the commission is examining in the light of the new regulation. any provision that does not comply with the new rules on access to documents will be amended or repealed. the fourth point i wanted to make in this debate is that the regulation applies to agencies. i know that this is a concern, mrs maij-weggen, mr cashman, which you have rightly expressed and which is reflected in the joint statement adopted together with the rules of procedure. work is also under way on this point. as soon as the new regulation was adopted, the commission informed the agencies and invited them to review their own access rules in the light of the new regulation. the instruments of constitution of the existing agencies will be amended. for the new agencies, this clause will be included in the proposal for a constituent act. finally, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has drawn up a guide to inform the citizen of the rights conferred on him by the regulation. in a first phase, this guide will be available in the very next few days on the commission's website, but afterwards, and i hope quite soon, it is planned to develop a guide for the public, which will be shared by our three institutions. that, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, is the commission's overall work to implement the regulation on access to documents. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the harmonization of the conditions for the award of public supply contracts is a very important one. i was pleased to hear you, madam minister, refer to the compromise proposal made by my colleague, mrs loyola de palacio, on 28 november during the trilogue. she made this compromise proposal because a solution had to be found. it has done so, and i thank you, madam minister, for having noted this, respecting the concern expressed by parliament that political authority is playing its role well in this interinstitutional committee. in order to apply the regulation, each institution has made changes to its own internal procedures where it considered them appropriate. the commission intends to continue to respect this autonomy. it wishes to respect the spirit and the letter of this new regulation, which in our view constitutes a real step forward for transparency and democracy in the european union.
mr president, first of all let me remind both the council and commission that the purpose of the regulation is: "to give the fullest possible effect to the right of public access to documents and to lay down the general principles and limits on such access". when looking at the council and commission decisions, i see an attempt to rewrite the regulation, in particular references to it in article 9 of the commission decision – documents which do not reflect opinions or individual opinions will not be made available. the same applies to article 11 of the council decision. i should like to remind both the council and commission that a restriction on access to documents can only refer to the exemptions listed in article 4 and article 9, which in turn relate back to article 4. equally, in the commission's proposals, third country nationals are denied the right of complaint to the european ombudsman – again, a violation of the spirit of the regulation. under delegated powers the commission believes it will not make legislative papers available until adoption of the final text. i would remind the house and the commission that 90% of some 5 000 legislative acts adopted every year in the union are under delegated powers. the council has widened access to some of its internal documents, but maintains confidentiality on member state demands on national delegations and national positions. why is it that six months after the regulation entered into force, no information campaign has been launched by the institutions? why? when are we going to have the commission's proposals on amending secondary legislation? has the commission adopted security rules? if so, can it publish them according to the regulations? when will parliament adopt its own security rules? i am extremely worried that if someone were now to approach and gain access via either the commission's decision or the council's decision we would see a violation of the regulation. furthermore, i should like to echo mrs maij-weggen's very important point. it is not acceptable that we should have secretaries-general representing politicians in this interinstitutional committee. politicians must be accountable and responsible for their decisions.
mr president, most people say they believe in open and transparent government. i am quite sure the commission and the council are genuine in what they say. i congratulate them on the progress made so far but none of us should deceive ourselves into thinking that we do not need a lot more work before europe is truly open and transparent. i want to use my time to cite just one example – a petition to the european parliament from various names at lloyds of london. the petition claims that the united kingdom government has not properly applied the eu insurance directives. as a result of the petition the commission very properly submitted, over a year ago, questions to the united kingdom government. that is when secrecy and cover-up begin. the commission has allowed members of the committee on petitions – but only members – to see the actual questionnaire, and then only under extremely stringent conditions. why not reveal the questions to the public, why not to the petitioners? the commission would show it is doing its job. as for the answers, they are top secret. nobody is allowed to know them – neither the members of parliament nor the petitioners – nobody. the uk government says it is an informal communication and that it does not reveal informal communications. the commission says that under the framework agreement it is not allowed to reveal the answers because there may be legal proceedings. the british government does not have a leg to stand on. if this is not a formal communication, i would like to know what is. the commission may have some argument, but i would remind the commissioner of the zwartveld judgement. in 1990 the commission refused access to documents because it claimed there might be legal proceedings. the ecj insisted that the documents were presented. so i would say to the commissioner this afternoon – you have made some progress but i can give you this example to show that a great deal of progress is still needed in this respect.
mr president, this debate has been quite unsatisfactory and, under the pertinent rule in our rules of procedure, i wish to propose to my committee and to the house that we have a resolution to close this debate, to vote on it at our january part-session, and to look at what further action we need to take, given the quite unsatisfactory nature of the responses from the council and commission.
mr president, on a point of order, i made quite a serious allegation that there was an attempt to rewrite the regulation. that has not been addressed. i maintain that allegation in that both the council and commission have introduced a new mandatory and blanket exception on the basis of opinions or individual opinions. this is not contained in the regulation. i direct honourable members to article 4(3) – public interest disclosure. it has to be proven that such disclosure would undermine the institution's ability to function.
i wonder whether i might say with real sincerity what a pleasure it is to take part in question time when mrs neyts is with us because she really does make an effort to answer the question fully and faithfully. that is genuinely appreciated. i hope you will pass this message to your prime minister and try to ensure, when the council meets next week, that it really does address itself to the issue of democracy in europe. we face a crisis of democracy in the union and it will become in some ways yet more acute as the union enlarges. if people in the regions and localities of europe feel that their democracy means nothing, because all decisions are taken in remote places; if they are always merely told 'look to the constitution of your member state if you are not happy with things', that will damage democracy in europe, not help it. i therefore ask you most sincerely to try to ensure that the type of issue which my colleagues and i have been putting to you this evening is really thought about at laeken.
mr president, i have a supplementary question along the same lines and i would ask the minister if she would be prepared to reply to it. it follows on from some of the comments and questions that have been asked already. i come from wales, a nation with four times the population of luxembourg, which is of course a eu member state. now in its november resolution on governance, parliament stated categorically that it will welcome proposals from the convention to redraft article 5 of the ec treaty to include a specific reference to the function of constitutional regions within member states. this repeated a resolution of the previous october which stated that the treaties should be amended specifically to recognise and respect the political and legislative powers of the internal nations and regions. is the council aware of these resolutions and if not, will it seek to ensure that attention is drawn to them during its deliberations at laeken?
counsel. - the european union considers the death penalty, which is of course irreversible, to be a particularly inhumane punishment. it therefore opposes it in all cases and has agreed to work towards its universal abolition. it is concerned that some 90 states retain the death penalty, although only a minority - some 30 countries, including the united states - continue to carry out executions each year. in the context of its objective of universal abolition, the union defined in 1998 a set of guidelines to determine the circumstances in which it should undertake specific and targeted actions. it endeavours, where it still exists, to reduce the application of the death penalty gradually and insists that it be carried out in accordance with certain minimum standards. i know that this is a sort of graduation into the horrors that are hard to sustain, but even in such a horrible case, this is how it should be done... the european union is closely monitoring the situation in the united states, where executions are widespread. in 2001, steps were taken in georgia, oklahoma and texas to release a number of death row inmates in accordance with eu guidelines. in addition, in the autumn of 2000, the union decided to plead amicus curiae for the first time in proceedings before the federal supreme court concerning a death sentence, in order to raise the question before that court of the legality, under international law, of the death sentence of a person who was a minor at the time of the offences: the presidency of the union has lodged an amicus curiae request in favour of alexander williams, who was sentenced to death for a crime committed when he was under 18 years of age and whose case is still pending before the supreme court of the state of georgia. in another case - atkins v. virginia - the union intends to submit another amicus curiae brief to the supreme court to reaffirm its position on the application of the death penalty to persons with mental disabilities. the council is aware of the details of the housel case and, in particular, that a ruling by the us supreme court could be reached before the end of this year. we would like to emphasize that, as regards death row prisoners who are nationals of a member state, the european union acts at the request of that state, which is best placed to assess the appropriateness of a community approach. at this stage the council has not yet received a request from the united kingdom for mr housel. the council is informed that the united kingdom is following this case very actively, in collaboration with the lawyers of the convicted man.
i should like to thank the president-in-office for that very detailed reply. i have no supplementary, but i would urge the council to continue that attitude to the plight of eu citizens because many members of this house may have constituents who have received what is clearly an unfair trial. this is something that is on the increase. i believe that, as well as the member state intervening on behalf of these eu citizens, the council also has a clear role. i fully expect the uk government to make representations to the council in what i believe in this case is an example of an unfair trial leading to an irreversible death penalty.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to begin, perhaps unusually for me, by thanking the various people who have made this evening possible, in particular the commissioner and all her staff within the maritime unit of her dg, and the maritime safety unit in particular. also the council, who are not represented this evening, but it should go on record how helpful the belgian presidency has been. i should also like to say how helpful the french presidency was in making sure that we made rapid progress. i should also like to thank my colleagues in the european parliament who stood together through this process, with the difficult challenges we faced, but which we overcame together. because of that we are able tonight to celebrate a historic victory for the european institutions in the field of maritime safety. together we have achieved a great deal. i will not dwell on the other reports. my fellow rapporteurs will do that. i should like to focus on my report on port state control, which is an essential part of our regime to make sure that events such as that involving the erika never happen again. two years ago today the erika was a symptom of a failed system of maritime safety. it was not the first of its kind, nor, sadly, was it the last maritime disaster of its kind. it symbolised to me and my colleagues in the european parliament the fact that the flag state controls had failed. the classification society controls had failed. the port state controls had failed and the imo itself had failed. it is only because of the collective action of the european union and its institutions that we have stimulated in the last two years unparalleled levels of activity in the field of maritime safety. without the european union, we would not be as advanced today as we are. we should all be very pleased that we have the european union to spearhead action in this area. what do we have to be so pleased and proud about? i want to list some of the achievements that we have secured in respect of port state control. firstly, there is going to be mandatory inspection for certain ships. that is an innovation and i welcome it. it means that the most dangerous ships will be inspected in future. secondly, enhanced inspection for other categories of ships and, thirdly, the guidelines on inspections themselves will become mandatory. in other words port state control authorities will have to inspect certain types of ships in certain ways. fourthly, we want the member states that have been a weak link in the system to train and recruit adequate numbers of port state control inspectors. they will have until 2003 to do that, but it is a challenge for them and it is a challenge, i hope, that they can rise to. fifthly – and this is absolutely critical to the success of this new regime – we want public access to the information. again that is in the amended directive and will be made available via the equasis database. sixthly, we want the member states and the port state control authorities in particular, to convey the information to the commission so that the commission can do its job in making sure the amended directive is uniformly implemented across the european union. the seventh point, which i mention with a certain pleasure, concerns the ability to ban and detain certain ships – banning the most dangerous ships, particularly those that fly the flags of blacklisted flag states. i welcome the strong controls we have to ban certain ships from european union waters if they have a poor detention record. that effectively will be a warning shot across the bows of these blacklisted flag states: over a period of time their ships will be banned one by one if they do not improve. a very important message will be going out from this parliament. but also there will be the power to detain, in particular the power to detain ships which, by 2008, do not have a fully functioning voice data recorder, a black box. again the message can go out tonight that by 2008 all categories of ships, if they want to come to a european port, must have a black box voice data recorder. if they do not have one, we will detain the ship until one is secured. once more, i welcome the fact that we have all worked together to secure that particular achievement. the black box will change the culture of shipping. it will not just be a tool whereby we can learn lessons from disasters and apply them in the future. a ship with a black box is a safe ship. our common aim tonight is to make sure the erika and disasters like it never occur again. i do not believe that we will achieve that simply by adopting these reports tomorrow but we will have gone a long way to securing our goal to protect lives at sea and to protect the marine environment. but we must remain vigilant. our duty now must be to make sure that the laws we pass tomorrow are implemented by everyone – the commission, member states and port state control authorities. that is our duty and responsibility. i hope we can live up to that.
chairman of the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs. – madam president, last night two requests were referred to my committee under rule 112. these relate to re-consultation on two framework decisions from the council, one on combating terrorism, the other on a proposal for a european arrest warrant. we were asked to treat these as a matter of urgency. my committee met this morning and agreed to propose to the plenary that we agree to urgency for these texts as submitted without report.
mr president, i am advised that the figures that we have just voted on do not make sense unless we vote on the wynn report which is about the financial perspective. we need to vote on that to make sure that we have the figures before we accept that the vote we have just had is complete.
i am sorry to interrupt this august house but i rise on a very important point. a few minutes ago the ecj ruled in luxembourg that the french ban on british beef was illegal. (cheers) could i have assurances from you, madam president, that you will do everything you can to make sure that the french fully compensate the poor hard-pressed british farmers as a result of this ruling? (applause)
we have become aware since drafting this report that the last phrase in our paragraph 4 is contrary to the provisions that we cite in recital a, referring to protocol 6 of the echr. therefore, i would like to propose that we replace the last phrase of paragraph 4 with the phrase 'extradition cannot take place where the defendant could be sentenced to capital punishment'. if we use those words, we are in conformity with protocol 6 which we cite at the beginning.
in writing. -the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of ships is not compromised by the fact that the ships are not equipped with a safety-critical system. this report could have a positive impact on a number of issues: it could make life easier for people working on board ships and, moreover, it is in line with the eu's attempts to take a pioneering role in environmental protection. calls for the establishment of 'black boxes' to house travel data recorders are an essential and practical way of ensuring that all ships calling at eu ports comply with common standards.
i welcome moves to improve relations with iran. but we must always take account of the fact that human rights in iran are, if anything, getting worse and not better. iran is continuing to fund terrorist groups such as hizbollah who are active in the middle east. in particular, iran funds terrorist groups that are still holding hostage a number of israeli soldiers who are officially posted as missing in action. if iran is serious about developing better relationships with the west, it ought to put pressure on those groups to release those soldiers. in particular, i would draw parliament's attention to the case of ron arad, an israeli air force officer who, in 1986, was captured by a shi'ite militia group in lebanon. he was then in 1987 sold to another group which was funded and run by iran. he has not been seen since 1987; his daughter was an infant when he was taken hostage. would it not be an appropriate message for this season of goodwill if she could at long last see her father who disappeared 15 years ago? please would iran help these soldiers be released if it is serious about developing peace with the rest of the world.
commission. – one of the proposals the commission is making for modernising reform will extend access to certain family and social benefits to european union officials who are currently denied such access because they cannot or do not want to enter into conventional legal marriage under the laws of the member states. i am very grateful to mr lund and 32 other members for initiating this plenary debate which enables me to report to parliament on the issue of the commission's intentions and proposals. under the current staff regulations, social and family rights are provided only for couples who are married. whilst that most obviously refers to matrimony between two heterosexual people, it also relates to homosexuals if homosexual marriage is legally recognised in a member state. the house will know that the kingdom of the netherlands is at present the only european union member state where marriage between two people of the same gender is legally provided for. in the commission's view, it is sensible to use the opportunity of current comprehensive reforms to revise the staff regulations in order to reflect the wide-ranging social change that has occurred in the time since the regulations were established in their present form in 1968. the commission therefore proposes to ensure that staff who do not have access to marriage under the current national legislation are not discriminated against and to provide improved treatment for people who, for personal reasons, choose not to be legally married. to achieve this, the commission seeks to provide full statutory recognition and commensurate benefits for all eu staff who are in partnerships that are shown to be stable in nature. i would ask the house to note that whilst we recognise that not all member states' legal schemes for such recognition accord equivalent rights and status, the commission accords equal recognition to all existing national regimes which make provision for stable partnerships. so far as we are concerned, the stable partnerships to be recognised will include homosexual partnerships which will be regarded in the same way as heterosexual partnerships and subject to the following conditions: firstly, the couple must provide a legal document of an eu member state which acknowledges their status as non-marital partners. secondly, neither partner may be married or in another non-marital partnership. thirdly, there must no blood relationship in the first or second line between partners. fourthly, that the couple must not have access to legal marriage in a member state. people in recognised stable relationships that meet these requirements will be entitled to the family-related benefits that, under present staff regulations, are available only to heterosexual married couples and to officials who are homosexuals and of dutch nationality. those entitlements will include household allowance, health insurance coverage, survivor's pension and annual travel allowance. it will be clear to the house that unlike homosexual couples in all member states other than the netherlands, cohabiting heterosexual partners who are not married to other people could, if they so wish, get married. the commission does not, however, ignore the reality that many people in modern societies wish to sustain stable partnerships but do not wish to enter into matrimony. we consequently recognise that many partners who have not married have family obligations. we therefore consider that those who are registered should be covered by provisions that, for instance, will enable a partner to participate in the european union civil servant's health insurance scheme and will enable an official to use special leave provisions when, for example, a partner is suffering from a serious illness. the system envisaged for the staff of the european union institutions largely replicates the system currently employed in the oecd. to obtain access to certain basic social rights under the staff regulations, non-married heterosexual partners must, as indicated, have documentary proof that their partnership is recognised in a member state, they must not be married or in a non-marital partnership with another person and they must have no blood relationship with their partner. in addition to these two categories of partnerships, where the partners have chosen to be officially registered, there are also a limited number of cohabiting partnerships that are not recognised by any member state since the people involved have chosen not to seek the legal recognition open to them. in such cases, the commission proposes that the existing purely administrative recognition of certain partnerships should be maintained. this would, however, be of minor importance and the resulting rights would be limited. for example, partners would continue to have access to established language courses where places are available. in its reform package of 30 october, the commission approved the principles outlined above. we also decided to intensify discussions with other eu institutions and with other international public sector organisations in order to develop these proposals further. finally, we reserved the right to make supplementary proposals after the outcome of the interinstitutional discussions which will commence formally in the early months of next year. the issue of recognised partnerships will be discussed at the next meeting of the heads of administration of all eu institutions. a working group will then further develop the commission proposal, taking into account the additional information on the situation in other international organisations which is currently being collected. we naturally wish to pursue best practice wherever that is feasible and gains the endorsement of the legislatures, including this house. at the end of this process, we will transmit our proposals for amendments to the staff regulations to the council and to this house. we hope to be able to do that in the spring of 2002. the date of implementation of these new arrangements, and indeed much else, will therefore depend to a very significant extent on the speed at which they are handled in this house and in the council. as for the council, there is nothing to suggest that member states will raise problems with this approach, particularly since it gives full recognition to the competence of member states to regulate of marital law. it does not introduce a separate regime for the institutions – indeed, it cannot. this does not preclude the possibility, of course, that critical questions may be raised by member states in the council. we shall simply have to wait to see what views are actually expressed. finally, a word on costs. for obvious reasons we do not yet know the exact number of recognised partnerships amongst the staff of the institutions or the numbers involved. we can, however, make a reasonable estimate, and on that basis, we can forecast that the budgetary impact of the above measures will be modest. two hundred and fifty fully recognised partnerships and 250 partnerships with a limited range of statutory benefits would, for instance, generate total annual costs of under eur 3 million. when implemented, the measures we propose will recognise and respect certain basic civil liberties. they will foster enlightened attitudes and they will improve the morale and living conditions of many of the valued staff who work for the european union in the different institutions. i hope that this house will continue to support these reasonable social innovations and i look forward to further constructive discussions. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank commissioner kinnock for his characteristically full discourse and discussion on this subject, and also for the very comprehensive material he makes available to us on the staff reform issues. we will have a chance to return to this subject, as he says, when we get the detailed proposal for the staff regulations. the issues that he raised were covered very briefly in the report that i prepared for parliament back in 2000, where we indicated that we were looking for a best-practice approach. the summary he has given us certainly indicates the amount of work that has been done on that. given that it is a highly sensitive issue and member states will certainly be looking at it closely, the sort of balance he has achieved is going to be very much the right one. it is very important that we see this in the broad framework of recognising stable partnerships as he described it in the november 2000 discussion paper. that is really what we are discussing here. we are not talking about any particular type of partnership – that in itself would be discrimination – but recognising stable partnerships. one of the points i particularly want to raise with him is the question of children from partnerships. there have been well-publicised cases recently in the united kingdom about the british forces. a soldier who very sadly was killed while on active service, had a stable partnership and a child from that partnership, but was not actually covered in the uk situation. that is an important point. the other point i want to raise is in connection with pension provisions and about the rights and abilities of staff to be able to decide to whom their pension should be paid and what flexibility they have in making that decision or in opting for whom their payment and benefit provision should be made in the event of their death.
mr president, i should like to thank commissioner kinnock for his detailed reply. i would like to encourage him further. he is absolutely right that we should look at the best practices available. we in this house must remind ourselves that we cannot be selective in the application of principle. we look towards enlargement and encourage good practice, yet here in our institutions we still continue to discriminate. but i welcome the signs of change. i hope that these will have the full support of this house and that we will begin to end the 'ping pong' game that we play with the human rights and civil liberties of ordinary men and women. for that is exactly what lesbians and gay men are. they are ordinary men and women made extraordinary by society's preoccupation with their sex lives. let me also say on a personal matter that in my own member state, my partner of 18 years, cannot possibly inherit my pension. that is discrimination. we must end it both within and outside the institutions. finally, i should like to raise one very important issue, namely recognition by an eu member state of a legal document. such a legal document is certainly not available in the united kingdom. i look forward to commissioner kinnock's replies.
this agreement is morally bankrupt. it is yet another example of the eu taking money from poor people in rich countries and giving it to rich people in poor countries. the bribe of eur 86 million per annum is taken from many pensioners and many of the lower-paid. it is given directly to the ruling elite of mauritania, who are ethnically different from the bulk of the ordinary people. very little money filters down to the ordinary people who are amongst the poorest in the world in one of the poorest regions of the world. furthermore, it is destroying fish stocks and destroying such infrastructure as exists. worst of all, however, hundreds of local fishermen are being killed each year and, if the excellent channel 4 documentary on the mauritanian agreement is any guide, some are being deliberately run down by trawlers engaged in illegal fishing permitted by a deliberately lax, ill-equipped monitoring and enforcement regime. this is the reality. for all the fine words in the commission document, this agreement is creating a human and environmental disaster. it is set to continue – and why? to satisfy the insatiable greed of the largely spanish fishing industry, which nobody dares to oppose for fear of reprisals at the council of ministers. a vote for this report is effectively a vote to subsidise murder and it creates the very conditions in which terrorism is spawned. this serious issue needs to be investigated and therefore i challenge this house to support me in the call for a temporary committee of enquiry, the papers of which will be ready for the next strasbourg session. if, as we say, we care about the poor and oppressed, if we believe in the right to life, then this house should support me in attempting to shine a light on this disgraceful situation.
mr president, this is the second urgent resolution on zimbabwe that we have put forward in just over three months. the reason for this is our enormous concern at the continued deterioration of the situation in that country with such a short time to go before the presidential elections. at the beginning of september there were some indications that mugabe might be prepared to respond to international pressure. sadly, it is now very obvious that the commitments given at abuja were a sham. it would seem that mugabe thinks he can make a few promises, buy a little more time and then carry on with his repressive policies while the economy of a once prosperous zimbabwe collapses. half a million zimbabweans are now on the verge of starvation. opposition politicians go in fear of their lives. mugabe's absolute contempt for international opinion was further demonstrated by his defiance towards the eu troika which visited harare at the end of november. we now have to show that we are serious in our threats to take action. at the moment mugabe thinks he is untouchable and even flies to spain for medical treatment. we are not proposing the blunt instrument of economic sanctions. we know that this would impact on the population at large and in any case we are only too aware how such measures can be evaded. we are calling for smart sanctions that would directly hit mugabe, his family and his cronies. steps should be taken immediately to freeze their overseas assets and to impose a travel ban. the decision to move in this direction should be taken by ministers at laeken this weekend. our resolve should be made absolutely clear in the meeting scheduled to take place next week between the european union and zimbabwean representatives under the terms of article 96 of the cotonou agreement. if mugabe does not take immediate and verifiable action in the way that the international community is demanding, the european union must be ready at once to impose the smart sanctions. our resolution today sets out clearly what has to be done. let us not dilute the message in any way. the resolution is a basis for action now. (applause)
when mr mugabe became the first president of zimbabwe some 40 years ago, that land-locked country in africa was a rich nation that could feed its population and export food to neighbouring countries. about 1000 white farmers, owning most of the land, produced the food and the surplus. after independence in zimbabwe, the lancaster house agreement between britain, as the colonial power, and zimbabwe allowed for land redistribution to black families and appropriate compensation to white farmers without any loss of production. mugabe has failed in implementing these reforms. he has failed to settle the poor black families. since independence, mugabe has had much time to establish real democracy, rule of law and prosperity for all. instead, he has enriched himself, his friends and destroyed his country's economy. he has made the poor even poorer. he has intimidated, looted and deprived the white farmers who produced so much wealth for his nation. zimbabwe needs a free and fair election now. mugabe should not fear. he will be judged on his record. if he is a statesman, like mandela, then he should step down with dignity and let someone else from zanu-pf contest the election. if he is still a catholic, then he should listen to archbishop ncube of zimbabwe who has also condemned him regularly without fear. mr mugabe cannot and will not be remembered in africa unless he gives his countrymen a chance to breathe, walk without fear and seek opportunities to enhance their quality of life. i have a simple message for mr mugabe – be an african elder and retire gracefully to your village.
could i just briefly refer to the statement made by the commissioner on zimbabwe, which i very much welcome. we have put off these cotonou negotiations and we really need to have a deadline by which they must take place. otherwise i can see mugabe will just keep on deferring it until nothing happens at all. i would suggest that we ought to set a date, such as january 12, by which, if nothing has happened, we proceed with the sort of strong measures that we have suggested. turning to the cluster bomb issue, i have to say that i have been one of the foremost activists in support of the campaign to ban antipersonnel landmines because our armed forces recognise that their limited military utility is outweighed by the danger that they so often pose to civilians, often many years after a conflict is over. there are other weapon systems that could be used instead of antipersonnel landmines to equal effect, but without the negative dangers. there are those engaged in mine clearance actions who will testify to the fact that a large proportion of the hazardous material they come across is unexploded ordnance of various sorts rather than antipersonnel mines sometimes this ordnance includes unexploded bomblets from cluster bomb units. i have to say that cluster bombs are not antipersonnel landmines and it is bogus to try and confuse these two issues. while i would support the need for such remotely delivered munitions to contain self-destruct or neutralising mechanisms, it would be most unwise to insist on a ban until our armed forces are satisfied that their operations would not be impaired or that they have substitute weapons of equal effectiveness. we have to be very careful and beware of what i might call 'banning creep'. otherwise we are going to blur the focus of our actions against systems such as antipersonnel landmines and the wide support which that sort of campaign attracts. there are some elements in the resolution that i can support, but i am suspicious of some of its driving elements. therefore, i am inclined to abstain on the resolution.
mr president, as a co-author of this resolution i am proud that i spoke out in june of this year in this chamber against the brutality and medieval obscurantist policies of the taliban government, when they chose to destroy the beautiful buddhist statutes in bamiyan. this was well before they, and their tragic country, became the focus of the world on 11 september, as the taliban's link with the perpetrators of the attack on the usa became clear to everybody. afghanistan is now at an historical crossroad. i, as a british mep, am proud of the role played by the courageous troops from my country in helping america rid afghanistan of its oppressive masters and end their harbouring of international terrorists bent on the destruction of western values, including women's rights. i salute particularly those who have been wounded in the campaign and hope, as the uk is about to become a major component of the un peacekeeping force, that no further casualties will ensue. two weeks ago i was invited to meet a representative from the revolutionary association of afghan women and i, as a conservative, baulked initially at the title "revolutionary". however, after my meeting i decided that, in afghanistan, my western views on social and political rights for women would no doubt, in the eyes of the old mujaheddin guard, such as president rabbani, classify me, too, as a revolutionary. i welcome the participation of two women in the interim government and i am hopeful that the new generation of younger, progressive and modern political leaders will see the way to establish a new order based on equality of the sexes and on full political and social rights enshrined in their international treaty obligations, and cease to regard women and their role as a purely economic one and a procreative one and banish them to invisibility in their burkas. women were once, in the 1960s and 1970s, welcomed by the government of king mohammed zahir shah as full participating members of society in their professions, in higher education and in politics. i hope that afghanistan can return to this form of moderate secular government again, and make use of the huge pool of talent residing in more than 50% of its population.
commission. – mr president, the commission fully shares with honourable members their condemnation of the kidnapping and murder of theys eluay, chairman of the papuan presidium council, and adds its voice to the call for the government of indonesia to ensure a full investigation of this dreadful incident and to bring its perpetrators to justice. we are informed that this is now being investigated as a murder case, which may not be sufficient to give us full confidence but at least they are taking this approach. further action is also needed to restore calm and to develop confidence in the democratic process. in this context, the commission warmly welcomes the adoption last month by the indonesian national parliament of the special autonomy law for papua and encourages the government of indonesia to proceed to full implementation of the new law with determination and with due speed. the commission also shares the deep concern of honourable members concerning the recent deterioration of the situation in sulawesi. since december 1998, there have been several instances of violence between muslims and christians. the two communities are increasingly segregated – and both are armed. while reports from the area are sometimes unclear, the situation is certainly serious. intercommunal violence has flared up recently around the town of poso. a report by a local humanitarian fact-finding mission, which visited the area (including poso and tentena) last week, suggests that the situation is now relatively calm, but that it remains very tense. while the tni and police are making efforts to maintain security, to collect weapons and arrest those responsible for violence, the presence of a large and vociferous group of laskar jihad gives rise to continued fears of escalating violence. the commission’s delegation in jakarta, together with the diplomatic missions of the eu member states, will continue to make every effort to monitor developments in these areas and to draw our concerns to the attention of the indonesian authorities in eu démarches and other contacts. the commission fully shares the stated position of the european union, which firmly supports the territorial integrity of indonesia, while encouraging the government to make urgent efforts to address and resolve peacefully indonesia’s internal conflicts, whether separatist or sectarian in character.
- ladies and gentlemen, as you know, eight immigrants, including three children, died last weekend in a container shipment to ireland. before we begin to debate this subject, i would ask you to rise and observe a minute's silence in memory of the victims of this tragedy. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.) immigration to ireland
- may i add to your comment that i've been taught that if you can't say something in two minutes, it's not worth saying.
commission. – mr president, it may sometimes be necessary to take more time to say less. still, i must say what i had planned to say. we attach great importance to this. i would add that the activities of parliament on matters such as this are important in themselves and also important to the way in which europe is perceived both by europeans and globally. the general affairs council, in the conclusions of its october meeting, called for the release of all remaining political prisoners in burma including aung san suu kyi. the commission strongly supported – and continues to support – that call. it was ten years ago last saturday that aung san suu kyi was awarded the nobel peace prize. she is a past winner, of course, of the sakharov prize. she remains, today, a formidably powerful symbol of the principles those prizes represent, as she did before – an inspiration to her own people and to the world at large. i know how much support she enjoys in this house, support with which i want strongly to associate myself. it is a measure of both her courage and her commitment to non-violent action that aung san suu kyi has decided to remain in her country under detention and to engage in discussions with the authorities responsible for that detention in order to pursue her goal of establishing democracy in her country. her persistence, her passion and her wisdom have been instrumental in the positive developments that have occurred in burma over the last year, even though it must be recalled that these developments are only the beginning of a process which needs to be further deepened and to evolve into a constructive and more concrete dialogue based on respect for internationally accepted standards of human rights. therefore, while we salute aung san suu kyi and assure her of our continued admiration and support, we also encourage the government to pursue this groundbreaking dialogue actively. we have already underlined the readiness of the european union to consider positive measures in response to concrete results from the present talks. but we need to see these results, not least the early release of the many hundreds of political prisoners still held in burmese jails. the case of leyla zana is very well known to the commission, as stated in several regular reports on turkey. the case has been a cause for concern raised with the turkish authorities on many occasions. the commission is aware that the case of mrs zana has been discussed many times at the european parliament and has recently received renewed attention in the framework of the ep report on turkey as well as during the ec-turkey joint parliamentary committee recently held in november. the commission welcomes the renewed attention of the european parliament to this case. in this context, as stated in the regular report for turkey 2001, the commission expects that turkey will observe the ruling of the european court of human rights of 17 july 2001 on the absence of a fair trial in this case. this would be a significant step by turkey with respect to the actual implementation of the recent constitutional amendments whereby the right to a fair trial was explicitly guaranteed.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
- the following motions for resolutions are requested for joint debate: - b5-0761/2001 by mr collins, on behalf of the uen group; - b5-0772/2001 by mr van den berg and others, on behalf of the pse group; - b5-0780/2001 by mr vinci and mr schmid, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; - b5-0794/2001 by mrs malmström, on behalf of the eldr group; - b5-0807/2001 by mr thomas mann, on behalf of the group of the european people's party; the situation in nepal.
commission. – the commission shares parliament's concern on the deterioration of the situation in nepal. we also had placed great hopes in the negotiations started three months ago by the deuba government. from their contacts with the royal nepalese government, eu representatives in kathmandu had drawn the conclusion that mr deuba was genuinely committed to finding a lasting peace with the maoist guerrillas in order to be able to focus action on the country's considerable development needs. the reasons why the negotiations collapsed are not entirely clear, but the maoist factions first broke the cease-fire. the commission agrees that there is a risk that the country is drifting towards civil war. it also fears that the current state of emergency may jeopardise a fragile democracy already undermined by years of political instability and corruption. the eu has promptly condemned the new wave of violence and launched an appeal in favour of restoration of peace and law and order. the commission is currently preparing its cooperation strategy for the next five years. under the current circumstances, consolidation of democracy, conflict prevention and poverty eradication will be the primary objectives of its new strategy for nepal. the eu-nepal political dialogue should be continued and further strengthened while cooperation targets should include promotion of development initiatives in the most deprived areas of the country, to counteract the frustrations and resentment of local people. in all its present and future cooperation activities the eu will constantly and carefully monitor the situation, including security aspects that might jeopardise its development cooperation.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
- doc. b5-0773/2001 by mr van den berg and mr sauquillo pérez del arco, on behalf of the pse group; - b5-0785/2001 by mr maes and mr rod, on behalf of the green group; - b5-0795/2001 by mr van den bos and mr dybkjær, on behalf of the eldr group; - b5-0808/2001 by mr johan van hecke and mr posselt, on behalf of the group of the european people's party; the european union is also concerned about the situation in the democratic republic of congo.
- mrs maes, it is up to your group to decide which cases it will spend its time on. it's not our business.
mr president, the democratic republic of congo is neither democratic nor a republic. it is a country with fertile land, vast mineral wealth, populated by people who are poor, sick and starving. these people have been plundered by cruel and corrupt dictators who continue to enrich themselves. soldiers from neighbouring countries such as rwanda and congo continue to loot, rape and kill civilians at random. villages and towns are destroyed. over 2 million people have been killed and 1 million people live in fear in refugee camps. the un passed resolution 1376 on 7 november 2001. it advocates disarmament and demobilisation, repatriation, resettlement and reintegration of armed groups. these measures are essential. how are they going to be implemented? who will lead this action? the eu, the usa or the un? or will this be yet another un resolution for filing in some dusty cabinet. last month i attended in ghana a conference of african politicians. a veteran politician from drc was there. he had had great difficulty in leaving the drc, and this is what he asked me: how can african countries like the drc be free from governments run by crooked dictators? i could not answer. he asked a second question. do we need to breed terrorists who will attack europe and the usa to precipitate effective action like in afghanistan? i could not answer that either. let us make sure that we take action before poor people become so desperate.
commission. – let me first of all remind members of parliament of the fact that we are the biggest provider of humanitarian aid in the drc this year – eur 35 million in echo funded activities and some eur 10 million from other sources. the eur 10 million are going to basic healthcare in the government-controlled part and the eur 35 million to the eastern part where no-one else is doing anything like this. actually disbursing eur 45 million for these purposes in the circumstances there is quite an achievement, and i am very proud of it on behalf of the many people working there, many of them still in very dangerous circumstances. however, we have spared no effort over the last years to support the peace processes at work in the great lakes region. we have been active in the region throughout its disastrous recent history. whenever we could, we have used our different cooperation instruments to help ease the suffering of the people there. we have also used all our influence to push for a durable peace in the region. i would now like to go into more detail on the lusaka peace process. we support it not only politically – the commission has already funded the lusaka negotiations by a grant of eur 2.65 million from the sadc regional programme. the logistic of the joint military commission surveying the cease-fire was financed by cfsp budget-line to the amount of eur 1.2 million. the facilitation of the inter-congolese dialogue has been financed by a grant of eur 2.34 million from edf monies, and we are considering eur 1 million further financing from rapid reaction mechanism budget line, which would provide for the implementation of the meeting of the inter-congolese dialogue in january in south africa. we are making a meaningful contribution to all these endeavours. nevertheless the commission is concerned about the lack of concrete results following the talks in the framework of the inter-congolese dialogue that took place in addis ababa on 15-19 october. the most difficult issues for the country’s future are still to be addressed. the commission welcomes the announcement made by facilitator masire concerning the resumption of the dialogue in south africa at the end of january/beginning of february 2002. the commission has always been supportive of the congo. we are the largest, as i mentioned before, supplier of humanitarian aid as well as one of the few donors that have remained active in the country throughout recent years. however, the commission considers that the drc’s stability and sustainable development will not be ensured until all parties to the dialogue have clearly committed themselves to the establishment of and participation in one political system. this is the core of it. do they see themselves as participants and players in one political system? without a clear yes to this, it is very difficult to help the country from the outside. there are the other issues of external forces at play. these are real problems, but if we do not see a credible answer to this question emerging, nothing else will ever work. so all these things have to be addressed in some sort of balanced overall approach. when this political commitment is made, of course, we will have a much better basis for getting an effective cooperation programme up and running. what i want to do is to be able to sign – and this is what we are planning – the national indicative programme in january in the context of the resumption of the inter-congolese dialogue. this is the line we have defined in the commission. the other activities linked to peace process implementation, i.e. demobilisation and the creation of a new basis for the life of ex-combatants, will be implemented following progress in the field. i would like to stress that the commission’s action in the great lakes is only part of a wide and sustained effort to enhance the eu's overall political presence as a partner in africa. with the cotonou agreement, the union has confirmed that it had no intention of reducing our long-standing cooperation in africa and the eur 15 billion envelope that we have outlined and will commit over the next five years clearly demonstrates this determination.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0375/2001) by mr nobilia, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the commission communication on new european labour markets open to all (com (2001) 116 - c5-0188/2001 - 2001/2084 (cos)).
- mrs weiler, i propose that we write to mr nobilia to say that his absence is a serious lack of courtesy to the house and the committee he represents.
commission. – mr president, i welcome parliament's report on the commission's communication on new european labour markets. it is a very useful input to the preparation of the action plan on skills and mobility announced in that communication. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, maybe in writing, for his efforts and for the overview reflecting the contributions made by the committee on employment and social affairs, the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, as well as the opinion of the economic and social committee. in its communication the commission proposes three strands of action to further improve operation of the labour markets: firstly removing skills barriers and tackling skills gaps, secondly removing barriers to mobility, and thirdly improving information and transparency. the high-level task force on skills and mobility, which was set up on a proposal from the commission following the stockholm european council, will soon recommend a set of additional policy initiatives at eu and national levels to open the new european labour markets to all by 2005. its report will be submitted to the commission in december this year, on the basis of which the commission will present an action plan to the barcelona council in spring 2002. the rapporteur met the chairman and members of the task force at their most recent meeting, when parliament's draft opinion had already been forwarded to the task force. it provided a timely opportunity for the task force to take account of your draft report in its deliberations. the action plan will propose a set of policy initiatives, taking the form of a framework for action, to be transposed into more concrete legal texts, programmes or initiatives, in which not only the member states, but also the social partners, regional and local authorities and other relevant organisations will be involved. let me now react more specifically to a number of the main points made by the rapporteur in his explanatory statement. first of all, he suggests the effective involvement of the social partners in the representative bodies. i agree that this is a positive feature of improving industrial relations, which would help the operation of the labour markets. but we also have to bear in mind that the dynamics of the labour market should not reduce access to these for people who have until now been excluded from these new developments. i share the objective of involving social partners more in the national action plans. secondly, he recommends the establishment of an agreement on the fiscal package to reduce disparities between member states. there are still important differences in the tax treatment of individuals and enterprises between the member states, but it would go beyond the scope of the commission's action plan to present specific proposals in this area. thirdly, he also proposes greater regional and local participation in drafting the national action plans. this proposal is to be welcomed, particularly since the employment guidelines specifically encourage this. fourthly, he recommends better access by local and regional bodies to research opportunities in the sixth framework programme. i recognise that improving the situation of disadvantaged regions and areas through research investment is part of the process of building up skills and human capital, which will help bring jobs to such regions. finally, he proposes the creation of a common legal base for the third – the non-profit – sector. it seems to me that this requires more analysis and careful thought, in order to avoid putting unnecessary constraints on a sector which has an important potential for job creation. to conclude, l should like to thank parliament once again for this report, for its input into the commission's action plan, and for its support for further opening up of the european labour markets.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following oral questions to the commission: - (b5-0537/01) by eluned morgan and barbara o'toole, on behalf of the pse group, on minority languages; - (b5-0753/01) by eurig wyn and others, on behalf of the green group, on linguistic diversity.
mr president, i am pleased to see that you have changed the title of this debate: it is about regional and lesser-used languages. i welcome the fact that we are discussing this at all. this is the first time in eight years that lesser-used languages have been discussed in this house. it is appropriate that we discuss it now at the end of the european year of languages. the fact that we have not discussed this reflects the problems that are faced by lesser-used language communities in terms of their relationship with the eu. the legal base of the budget line is being challenged by the council. we have put money on this line this year and we expect the commission to spend that money. we do not want any legal wranglings about that. i hope that members will vote on the amendments we have also put forward to the joint resolution. we are asking for a programme to follow up the european year of languages where we would also hope to see earmarking for lesser-used languages. we also want to see earmarking money for lesser-used languages within relevant existing programmes. this would formalise the procedure which already exists for example in the structural funds where structural funds are used to prop up lesser-used languages in some areas. it would simply formalise that procedure. we also want to see culture on a majority voting basis within the council so that the commission can present a programme specifically on lesser-used languages which i know the commission has already. these are not radical proposals. i do not know why some groups are resisting this and not supporting the 40 million people within the eu who speak lesser-used languages. but i hope this will be a first step and we will see an own-initiative report on this in future. i wish you: nadolig llawen a blwyddyn newydd dda – a happy christmas and a happy new year.
mr president, as my colleague mrs morgan has stressed, more than 40 million european citizens speak autochthonous languages, other than the main official language of the state in which they live. languages are an integral part of europe's linguistic and cultural diversity. they lie at the heart of the fundamental rights of its citizens and are a key factor in the creation of a peaceful and democratic europe. i welcome this long-awaited resolution and urge colleagues to support it as it will be an excellent platform for the future. the european year of languages has been a successful year and it included many projects for europe's regional and lesser-used languages, contrary to the expectations of many of us. the recent council decision emphasises that, 'all european languages are equal in value and dignity from the cultural point of view'. although the council's decision does not refer specifically to regional and lesser-used languages, it does not exclude them either. this is why i particularly support the amendments referring to the mainstreaming of programmes and i am calling for support for a multiannual programme by 2003. this is a golden opportunity to direct this agenda for the future and in preparation for enlargement. we must ensure that article 22 of the charter of fundamental rights is on the agenda of the next intergovernmental conference and that we also push for qualified majority voting in council. let us work together to ensure that regional and lesser-used languages are here to stay and remain part of the culturally diverse europe of the future. europe's unique richness is its diversity. let us ensure that we all protect this.
the commission. - mr president, i thank you for the debate, which i have listened to with great interest. but i do not think it is necessary for me to add anything extra, whatever language i may wish to use.
- the joint discussion is over. motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 42 (5) of the rules of procedure: see minutes. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 5.50 p.m. and resumed at 6.30 p.m.)
we will now proceed to the vote. the next item is the vote on topical and urgent subjects of major importance. for the outcome of the vote: see minutes.
the title is not correct. it should be a resolution on regional and lesser-used languages and i hope that this will be corrected.
- colleagues, it seems we have a problem.
the wording in the joint resolution, which was agreed by everybody who was party to the joint resolution, is regional and lesser-used languages. that is what is used throughout the document.
- does parliament agree with this formulation ?
regional and lesser-used languages of the european union.
- ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is now 'regional or minority languages in the european union'.
- mr. esteve, the word "regional" is at the very beginning.
- "regional or less widely used european languages". is that the accepted wording?
in writing. -en) the british conservatives welcome the principle of labour markets that are open and accessible to all. it is essential to the single market. we have, however, voted against paragraph 15 of the nobilia report, because the idea of establishing a european system for income policy and social security directly encroaches on the competences of the member states. we have invited our colleagues from the other parties and groups to join us in rejecting this specific suggestion while supporting the report as a whole.
- i declare the explanations of vote closed. communication of common positions of the council - transmission of texts adopted at this part-session - calendar of forthcoming meetings - agenda for forthcoming meetings: see minutes.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned and wish you all a merry christmas. (the sitting was closed at 6.55 p.m.)
mr president, one of the conclusions in the laeken declaration is that citizens feel that deals are often cut behind closed doors and away from democratic scrutiny. that in fact could be an assessment of summits themselves, which are often conducted out of sight and away from public scrutiny until the very end. one easy way of starting to remedy that process would be to ensure that the european parliament, just like the european commission, is represented throughout the summit and not asked to leave after the aperitifs. i would, however, like to add my congratulations to the president-in-office of the council for his management of the summit. he was absolutely right not to allow the meeting to degenerate into a fight over the seat of agencies but instead to allow the spotlight to fall on the more significant issues. the laeken declaration rightly refers to the twin challenges facing the union. my group has asked me to concentrate on internal matters, and particularly the issue of governance, but i would like to say just a few words about the external challenge. the declaration is of course right to say that there must be no weakening in the fight against those who use terror and violence. but for me the real strength of the declaration lies in its wider recommendation that the european union takes the fight against poverty and exclusion seriously. i wholeheartedly support the aim of the declaration to “set globalisation into a moral framework”. as tony blair might have put it – "tough on terrorism but also tough on the causes of terrorism". parliament’s key objective at laeken was to see a convention launched with a broad-ranging agenda. it is a pity that the leadership of the convention is not so broad-ranging. three men of a certain age. for me that sends the wrong signals. (applause)they are each very worthy in their own right but collectively they fail to represent europe’s rich diversity of talent and in particular: how does this demonstrate the union’s so-called commitment to gender mainstreaming? (applause)but at least we have the convention, and it is now up to all of us to play our part in making it work and involving the public of the union in the debate about the future of europe. however, any fruits of the convention will not be ripened until well after 2004. the laeken declaration’s objective of good governance, that is connecting better with citizens, reducing bureaucracy and delivering on our objectives more effectively and efficiently, cannot wait. laeken must not be seen as an excuse for postponing action on governance but instead create a new impetus for reforms that do not require treaty change. in particular there are three areas where urgent action is required: firstly, the continuation of the reform of the staff structures and administrative procedures inside the commission. there is a need for high profile support at a high political level for continuing the work of transforming the commission into a first-class civil service. secondly, the european parliament itself must reform its own working methods. i believe that we do a good job in terms of our legislative, budgetary and control functions, but no parliament can work in the dark. by reforming our working methods to make ourselves a livelier and more relevant debating chamber, we can shed a little light on our role as the voice of the people in eu decision-making. thirdly, we must make progress on better regulation. i note the presidency’s conclusions which welcome the report of the mandelkern group on the quality of regulatory arrangements and the commission communication on regulatory simplification and their calls for an action plan for the first half of 2002. this parliament, in the report prepared by sylvia kaufmann, called for an interinstitutional working group on better regulation. notwithstanding what was agreed at laeken, i hope the spanish presidency will re-visit this issue and set up a working group with a mandate to arrive at draft interinstitutional agreements and an action plan agreed by all three institutions to be presented at the seville council next june. let us be clear that the alternative to an agreed plan is a guerilla war where parliament is left with no alternative but to defend its prerogatives. if that happens, we will have a non-stop dogfight where, proposal by proposal, parliament will defend its rights as a co-legislator. the convention has the potential to reform our institutions, to renew our goals and to reconnect europe with our people, but none of this should have to wait until 2004, the process needs to begin now.
mr president, may i join in the praise of the presidents of the commission and council for having brokered the deal at laeken. to have got a british prime minister to have signed up to the prospect of a federal constitution is an extraordinary thing. it is certainly unprecedented. i fear though that the size of the podium in this chamber will require strengthening and extension so that it can fit in valerie giscard d’estaing and his entourage. the european citizen will feel truly privileged that we have such a grand praesidium to service our work. thank you for the 60 questions or so. frankly, i would have wished for more. first, there is nothing on strengthening the powers of the court. secondly, there is nothing on revising the formula of a qualified majority in the council. thirdly, there is nothing on strengthening the role of the regions within the political system of the union and, fourthly and finally, we would have appreciated some critical self-assessment of the functioning and performance of the european council itself. but we are blessed with a truly pluralist procedure – an exciting and novel one – and we retain the freedom within the convention to ask ourselves questions. we will exploit that freedom.
mr president, the laeken council will sadly rank amongst the less impressive meetings of its kind. it was a missed opportunity and a serious disappointment, like the belgian presidency which preceded it. why? not just because of the consistency of the foreign minister, louis michel, who for us emerges as an endearing harry worth-type figure on the european political stage. we seem to have passed over his proclamation that the british-led un peacekeeping force in afghanistan was to become an eu body. the key problem is that for this presidency these last months have been a painful learning curve. the excessive aspirations of july, often misguided like ideas for a new euro-tax on all eu citizens or a tobin tax on capital movements, found themselves on a collision course with reality. at laeken the eu's new rapid reaction force was declared operational even though, critically, its access to nato assets is currently blocked. indeed, the precise relationship between the force and nato remains ambiguous. the european arrest warrant enjoyed a particularly painful birth with some uncertainty about when, or if ever, it will apply in italy. the attempt to assign sites for various new eu bodies also descended into farce. little progress was made at laeken, or indeed, throughout the belgian presidency, on the competitiveness agenda in europe. the lisbon strategy, which has been grounded since stockholm, now faces a moment of truth in barcelona if we are truly to become the dynamic knowledge-based economy that is sought. finally let me turn to the declaration itself. the text acknowledges the eu's failings in terms of democracy, transparency and closeness to people but seems to come up yet again with solutions on federal lines. these options represent the wrong route for europe. the convention should learn the lessons of the last decade, reject ambitions for a european super-state, and focus on modest and intelligent reforms which can really deliver a europe that works.
mr president, mr verhofstadt spoke a lot about the need to improve democratic control. but we do not need to change the treaties to improve democratic control. we can do that using the existing treaties. i am not talking about applying article 42 to bring the third pillar matters into the first pillar, although that would be very desirable. i am talking about instances such as that last week where parliament was consulted for the fourth time in a year on a text of which half was missing. we were asked to approve a regulation to freeze the assets of a list of terrorist organisations; the list was not attached. the regulation referred to two council texts, neither of which is available to parliament. we voted on amendments covering the absent documents in view of the urgency, but if that text is not amended and, in view of this practice, parliament really should consider recourse to the european court of justice unless council is prepared to treat us in a fairer and more adult way.
- that's for the next speaker to decide.
mr president, we can celebrate today a number of victories for the european parliament on things which, not very long ago, we were told would never possibly be agreed at the laeken european council. for a start we have a convention – and i am particularly pleased at this because i think i was the first one to suggest nearly two years ago now, that the convention method that was used for drafting the charter of rights could equally be used to prepare a revision of the treaties. we were told that it would be restricted to just four subjects and now it is clear that the agenda is wide open. it will produce a single document with recommendations, not just listing every single option that anybody can think of. it will of course come up with options when there is a division, but it will work towards reaching a broad consensus as the basis for the work of the igc. on all that we can be pleased. the fly in the ointment is the curious decision on the choice of the troika for the praesidium of this convention. it is no secret that my group would not have chosen mr giscard d’estaing as its preferred candidate, but as you know, mr president, we have had experiences of constitutional reports from mr giscard d’estaing in this parliament. he produced a report on subsidiarity a number of years ago and from that we can draw some lessons because every single paragraph in his report, if i remember correctly, was amended in committee and then in plenary, by parliament adopting amendments tabled by yourself. that might be a working method we might well need to employ in the convention and is something we can draw some lessons from. i turn now to the less positive result of the european council – the farce over the agencies. that too can be used to learn some lessons. it shows us what happens when we move away from the community method to intergovernmentalism. instead of a commission proposal we have every country coming up with its own proposal, feeling forced to defend it in an intergovernmental logic and with no result in the end. it shows the limits of the european council which should be setting the strategic objectives for the european union. when it has to deal with detail like that it of course fails. let no government now turn around to the parliament and criticise us for being incapable of taking decisions, accuse us of being too slow in taking decisions, when the european council offers us a spectacle like that, which indeed discredits the european union in the eyes of its citizens. mr president, i shall stop now but not without remarking that i believe this is the last time you will chairing the european parliament before the presidential election comes and you move on to other higher things and may i wish you all the best of luck for a prosperous and successful new year in 2002.
- thank you. - thank you.
mr president, i would like to continue this internal ppe-de debate by focussing solely on the laeken declaration. it is right, as the declaration says, that european institutions should become closer to the citizens, less intrusive, less unwieldy and more efficient and open to democratic scrutiny. it is also right that a whole series of questions should be asked in terms of simplifying the process of legislation, on clarifying competencies of the union and indeed restoring perhaps one or two to member states, as is mentioned. how to involve the national parliamentarians too is a very important aspect and lastly, it is right, as the president of the council said, that this is a new departure for europe as a way of amending treaties rather than having decisions made behind closed doors and smoke-filled rooms early in the morning. there is a real doubt, however, that these statements of principle will actually become reality. is the agenda, as some feel, already decided in advance? will all the voices in the european political spectrum be heard? will indeed, above all, the views of ordinary european citizens, be taken into account and listened to in the work of the convention? there were some signs under the previous presidency but not i am afraid under this one, that they did actually care about european citizens. it had a website – ‘europa’ or whatever it was, – but we have not heard much about it under this presidency. in the conclusions of the council relating to the convention, one paragraph is devoted to the forum and it seems to be more about informing the network of organisations than having their contributions in the work of the convention. i therefore make this one appeal today that in the praesidium, and perhaps helped by the commission, national parliamentarians and others, we really should have a real european debate in the member states involving european citizens so that when we end up with a constitutional framework, we really have something that europeans can support. this is the only occasion in history, that i can think of, where citizens can be consulted before a constitution is drawn up rather than afterwards. so please, commissioner, ensure that everything is done to make sure this european debate will actually take place.
mr president, at the laeken summit, the heads of government agreed to set up a constitutional convention on the future of europe which includes the possible incorporation of the charter of fundamental rights, with its costly, social and economic rights, and the direct election of a european commission president, which i oppose. i welcome, however, calls for the eu to become more democratic, transparent and efficient, for an enhanced role for the national parliamentarians and a menu of options to choose from in 2004. the eu already possesses its own anthem, flag, citizenship, army, currency etc. and a whole host of quasi-federal institutions. to pretend, as the labour government in britain is already doing, that this convention is simply an opportunity to limit the power of the union at the expense of the states is ridiculous. this convention is much more reminiscent of the american nation-building exercise in philadelphia in 1787. the political elites of europe are ever more distanced from their electorates. how representative of european opinion are valéry giscard d'estaing, dehaene and amato? if this is the court, the jury is a loaded one. how representative will the convention be of the peoples of europe? we should be preparing urgently for enlargement by solving the amsterdam leftovers, and reforming the cap and the structural funds representing 80% of the budget of the eu, not preparing for grand constitutional reform of little relevance to the concerns and aspirations of the electorate. how will extending qmv to delicate areas like social security and taxation help? and what has been done to resolve the problems of the much-needed eu patent because of the obsession with multilingualism in the institutions? in the european union there is idealism born out of a desire to see a europe of peace and prosperity, an objective we can all share. i come from a country with centuries-old, uninterrupted democratic traditions and i want to say two things to the believers in a european super-state. firstly, the eu is not the origin but the expression of peace in post-war europe, which is underpinned by democracy in the nation-states and respect for the rule of law. secondly, idealistic political changes instituted by the political elites which do not have the broad support of the people will be like structures built on sand. do not run before you can walk. when the peoples of europe want a single european state, that will be the time to call for a european convention, and not before. i wish you a happy christmas.
the first two sentences of the laeken declaration about the debilitating effects of the two world wars confirm my belief that the european union is a force for good in the world and britain, like all other member states, derives great benefit from the existence of the eu. the remains of my grandfather, like many others, lie somewhere in flanders on the battlefield of the somme. my father fought in montgomery's army in flanders for the liberation of brussels. i am still in flanders, the third generation of my humble family, fighting here for britain's interests. can there be any doubt as to which generation has got right the way to work out europe's relations? the simple certainties of the 20th century are less clear in the complexities of the 21st century. as i read on in the laeken declaration i recall the saying we have in english that, like the curate's egg, it is good in parts. i particularly like the reference that we are a continent of liberty and, above all, of diversity. unlike the united states of america, europe is a voluntary association of sovereign independent states. we must never forget that. of course we need european-level institutions but let us also recall the wise words of jacques santer: "europe must do less better". there needs to be a clearer definition of subsidiarity on "less". only go to european level for that which can only be done at european level. on "better" i urge commission and council to look closely at the call of this parliament for a uniform and compulsory code of good administrative behaviour. the response i received to a parliamentary question last week from the commission was dismissive of parliament's call made in september for such a uniform and compulsory code. that is not the right attitude, nor is it the way to get the european public on side. the case for such a code has been set up by the ombudsman, jacob söderman. i am pleased he will be an observer at the convention but i would say to commission and council that you would do well to listen to him as well as to allow him to observe. as the final speaker from the floor this year, may i wish all the staff, all the members and all the people of europe a very merry christmas and a happy new year.
commission. - mr president, this debate has now been going on for more than four hours, and i understand that the attention of the european parliament has been greatly solicited. however, i listened carefully to all the speakers until the end. i must say that throughout this debate, the dialogue and the interventions of your parliament have been marked by high-quality speeches. almost all the speakers expressed their satisfaction at the end not only of this laeken council but also of six months of the belgian presidency, and i have no problem, on the contrary, in joining in this thanksgiving not only to guy verhofstadt and louis michel but to all the belgian ministers and all their collaborators. i also thank them, why should i not say so, for the quality of the relations which have been maintained and even strengthened during this presidency, whatever the problems or difficulties, between the council and our colleagues and the members of the european commission. the few words i want to say concern the convention and the hope, or the hope, it fosters. first, mr swoboda and mr james elles, among others, perhaps, have raised the question of civil society. i think it is very important that this new framework, which is being set up for the first time, in terms of institutional matters, after the first successful experience of the previous convention on fundamental rights, but which was a limited, limited exercise, probably less sensitive than the one that is about to be opened, i think it is very important that this convention is permeable, listening, able to hear what is happening outside. in one way or another, this forum, this network of non-governmental organizations, regions and associations, will have to be able to be heard and, when necessary, to be heard by the convention. i have noted the suggestion that the website should be relaunched in both directions: not only to bring information down, but also to bring opinions or criticisms up. i am also reminded of the idea i expressed here that this convention should be a sort of sounding board for governments and citizens alike. let me say that this will be very useful in a period - i am thinking of the year 2002 - when six or seven, perhaps more, if i am not mistaken, of the countries of the union will be holding general elections, and so we will have to pay close attention to the quality of the european debate, since we know well, whether national politicians like it or not, that the european dimension is necessarily present in the debates in each of our countries. that is the first point i wanted to make. secondly, the bureau, which i will be a member of with my colleague and friend antonio vitorino. the presidency of the twelve will be led by this trio of high-quality statesmen - i take this word for myself: mr amato, mr dehaene and president giscard d'estaing. these are three statesmen, and quite frankly you can naturally consider their age, some would say their experience or their wisdom. i know all three of them. what i can say about them, and in particular about the president of the convention, is that all three of them have, in their european conviction, a youth of spirit, a dynamism which i would like to find in a number of politicians who are much more eurosceptic and who are sometimes 20 or 30 years younger than they are. that is what i think is important, with the dynamism and youth of their convictions, their european qualifications and their authority, which we will need. what i mean, after louis michel, is that naturally there is this president and these two vice-presidents, but they will have to work collegially with the presidium, and by listening and animating the debates of the whole convention. so it is not a solo work, but a teamwork, which is very different. the european council in laeken, and it is the great merit of the belgian presidency that it has led to this result, has given this convention a dynamic mandate, an open mandate, and thus the first risk that i had imagined or feared is eliminated: that of a closed mandate, blocked on the four lines of nice, which would have caused here and in my own country a very great disappointment and also in public opinion, and which would have forced us to work legally, technically, without political prospects. it's not. the mandate of laeken is open, and it even allows us to raise almost any question. and so the other risk is there, too, let me say. it is because, relying on such a broad mandate, such a great confidence, the convention is turning into a kind of academic place whose result would be too far from the mandate or the line of the mandate that has been set. let us not make this convention a place which the european council would not listen to. that is why the choice of the three persons who will be leading this convention is important, because these three personalities have the attention and respect of the european council. we must walk in the middle of these two rocks. the first is now out. the second one isn't yet. i simply mean that we will have to do responsible work, useful work, and useful work for the european council, which will then have to take the final decisions. the point i am trying to make is that this convention, which is a great opportunity for the european debate, a great opportunity for the future stages of european construction, a more open, more democratic and more transparent way, bears the responsibility of proving that the right method has been chosen, so that we do not return to the previous method, strictly intergovernmental. we will have this responsibility together, the european parliament, the commission, the council and the national parliaments, with the candidate countries around the table and on an equal footing with us, plus, of course, the active representatives of the committee of the regions and organised civil society. we will have the responsibility to make it work, to make it succeed. because if this succeeds, then, i think, in a sustainable way for the future, all future reforms in the coming decades will not be done as before, but will be done with this more transparent and more open method. we will have a second responsibility, which is to put institutional questions in perspective, and to put them in a political perspective. the mandate of the convention allows it. it allows us, in particular, in the first months of 2002, to spend a little time with each other and with others to ask ourselves this fundamental question: what do we want to do together, what is the meaning we want to give to the european project, what do you expect, not only the institutions but the member states, and in each member state the governments, the heads of state and government, the national parliaments, what do you expect from the european project? i understand that the president of the convention, and i will support him in this, has the idea of asking, by all modern means and perhaps by travelling, if the bureau wishes, to each of the capitals to ask in each country: what do you expect from the european project? we have heard in the last two years, since joschka fischer, all the heads of state and government, many ministers making big statements and strong speeches. i think we must go further and ask them to tell us what they want to see in this european project, what they expect from it, to make this sort of political verification. and then, after this verification, the time will come to put the institutional work on all the subjects that have been raised, and in particular on this constitutional process that was achieved in laeken, into this political perspective. that is what i meant: to do responsible, useful and usable work and to show that it is now possible to move the european union forward and make progress in a different way than by methods which, it seems to me, belong to the past. i wish you, mr president, with my thanks for giving me the floor at the end of this debate, and with my thanks for the quality of this debate, to have a very happy end of year celebration. (applause) i would like to thank
- the joint discussion is over.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned - calendar of next sittings: see minutes - the sitting was adjourned at 7.45 p.m.
